ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u6	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am forced to speak on the order of business following the serious decision taken yesterday by President Grasso to set up this Chamber as a civil party against the leader of one of the country's largest political forces. This is not the place, ladies and gentlemen, to enter into the substance of a serious and unfounded judicial procedure, but we cannot remain silent in the face of the choice of the President of the Senate to assert his own personal opinion, dealing it with a moral assessment that - I say this with the deep respect that belongs to me for the person and the institution - does not belong to him and does not convince us. Moreover, it did not convince us alone, but neither did the Presidency Council, to which the matter had been referred. When asked one by one, its members expressed themselves by a majority in a different and opposite sense to the choices that President Grasso then considered to take. The Presidency Council - I remind myself - is constituted, under the Rules of Procedure, in order to represent all the political components, precisely to be, if not binding, at least representative. Why ask for an opinion and then disregard it, for such a delicate matter, which calls into question political relations and democratic representativeness? What is the point of summoning an organism, making it express itself, and then disawaiting its determinations in such a resounding way? To make a political choice against the opposition leader? Is this the task of the President of the Senate, the second office of the State? Is this your idea of third-party institutions, which is the only condition to guarantee that respect that you yourself have so often invoked? We will never fail to respect this respect, Madam President, neither the institution nor the person. It is not in our style, in our vision of institutional and political relations, but similar respect we have the right to ask against this Assembly, the individual senators and the millions of Italians who have given their vote to Silvio Berlusconi and the center-right. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]] I would like to believe, Madam President, that President Grasso has not been influenced by political logics, by interests that are partly unworthy of his role. But that is precisely why we have a right here now to ask - and I am doing this formally on behalf of the Group I have the honour to chair - that he should come to the House this morning as soon as possible to explain the legal reasons for his choice and conduct. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups]] In the absence of this, dear President, it is difficult to imagine that the work of this House can maintain that spirit of serenity which can only be guaranteed by a Presidency recognized by all as authoritative and impartial. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LAG and Senator Rossi Maurizio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u9	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, Senator Romani's displeasure is my regret. The history of this House has always recorded by the President of the Senate, following serious decisions, the courage of his presence in the Chamber. This courage isn't here this morning. The headlines of the newspapers report a statement from the President of the Senate in which, just his conscience, he speaks of an inescapable moral duty. Consciousness is an internal source of judgment, Mr President. Moral duty is combined with ethics. Ethics is the search for objective institutions to be able to judge morally lawful or morally unlawful behavior. What we record today is not a moral duty, but an illegal behavior, for the following reason: President Zanda, the powers of the President of the Senate are governed by Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, which has as its incipit that the President represents the Senate. But in democracy, representation, especially in the legal field, cannot be manifested before the will of the political body of which one is represented has been formed. The Chairman of a Council shall abide by the deliberations of the Regional Council or the deliberations of the Council; the President of the Council of Ministers shall also do so. This is because the relationship between the agent and the agent is governed by the law; the relationship between the Senate Chamber and the President of the Senate is governed by the law, that is, the Rules of the Senate, and in this way he has behaved morally illicitly. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There are three types of relationship between the mandate and the representative: the democratic one, the mixed one and the authoritarian one. The President of the Senato Grasso has undertaken an authoritarian drift, because he has not submitted himself to the law, that is the Regulation, which requires him to evaluate and be consequent on the formation of the will, in this case the will that had been formed in the Council of Presidency, that according to Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure deliberates, and the deliberation had been contrary to the assumption of President Grasso. In this sense, the decision of authoritarian type, therefore not only anti-democratic but unconstitutional (college grillini lately I have heard them talk a lot about the anti-institutional behavior, especially of the Head of State; all this has studied it and should know it well), the authoritarian behavior, absit iniuria verbis, of the President of the Senate (I also say it in the awareness that the references must never be personal when the behavior is institutional type, but I do not think that that of President Grasso was institutional) finds trace in the verse of the ode "Marzo 1821" recalled by President Grasso in this Chamber when he said that the arduous judgment on his work will be entrusted to posterity. The ode "Marzo 1821" was written for Napoleon, not for Grasso; we hope that he does not feel, given his authoritarian behavior, a new Napoleon, because of "Napoleoni" in history have been filled other places, not the Senate Chamber, which certainly has not been and I hope will never be a madhouse. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u12	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we believe that President Grasso's decision to become a civil party is a completely different choice from what has happened in all these years, because, by heart, we only remember a constitution of civil part earlier, when a problem of serious erarial damage caused by an employee of the Senate has been caused. In all other cases where senators were involved, this has never happened, although we know that the President, in an autonomous way, could have been a civilian party. That is, you see, there is a problem here about the behaviour of President Grasso, because at the time he summons the Presidency Council and makes it vote we wonder why he did not respect the will of that body and why he did not proceed autonomously before summoning it. For us what happened is extremely serious: President Grasso no longer represents the senators or the Senate when he makes such a choice. It is a choice that we consider to be political, and we regret that on the press, from yesterday to today, the refrain of ethical choice is repeated continuously, without any kind of argument. President Grasso has shown with this decision, which is yet another confirmation, that it is not impartial and that it does not guarantee the will of the Presidency Council and the majority, but that it is useful to refer to - I remember - when decisions are made on people and the numbers come back only when there is one person to be struck. I recall a statement from the President, who said: I apply the Rules of Procedure, and I am fully respectful of the will of the majority of political forces. You can see that President Grasso has changed his mind in this case! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u15	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I have listened to the speeches by Senators Romani, Ferrara and Bitonci and, of course, I have no comments to make on the very important political aspect, which has occupied a large part of their speech. I must say that I disagree with their views on President Grasso's decision, especially on the formal aspects which have been invoked. Our Rules of Procedure are clear: the President of the Senate represents the Senate. We have no precedent of decisions such as that taken yesterday regarding size and consistency, but there are precedents of constitution of the Senate as a civil part in which the decision was taken by the President. Moreover, in order to clear the field from an aspect that has been mentioned, I will say that I personally do not participate in the Presidency Council, but from the public statements of my fellow Members who are members of it, read on the news agencies since yesterday evening, I have learned that President Grasso at the beginning of the Council meeting informed the members of the Presidency Council that the decision was in his responsibility and that he would therefore decide, but that he felt that it was necessary to know in advance the views and arguments of the members of the Presidency Council. I don't think we need to exploit the President's behavior, which seems linear to me... ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Eh, linear! ZANDA (PD). Please! ... By making a numerical majority an expression of opinions, opinions not followed by any votes and opinions remained. [[Senator Alberti Casellati's comments.]] There is also a matter of substance concerning President Grasso's decision. Look, I don't want to aggravate the climate of our debate. I also appreciated the tone in which the senators who spoke before me had their arguments, and I will try to use the same tone myself. We, however, have a trial for serious facts in Naples. Who was in the Senate in those years knows the issues, lived them personally. If the court of Naples - not the prosecutor of the Republic, as someone has argued - finds damage to the Senate, I think this assessment is legitimate. We are all senators and we have constitutionally protected powers: we can change the parliamentary group, we can set up new parliamentary groups, it happens all the time. If the court of Naples thinks that these changes should not take place for the exchange of money it seems to me that it is carrying out a serious consideration; if it says so following confessions, publicly known, it seems to me that it adds a serious argument; if the court of Naples asks the President of the Senate declaring that there is an injury to the interests of the Senate (I see it, you can discuss it, but the court sees it and many see it) and asks the President of the Senate, in its powers and responsibilities, which are personal, to express itself on the constitution of civil part, but what must the President of the Senate do? [[Comments of Senators Malan and Palma]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u16	Please, everyone has heard a speech for the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u17	ZANDA (PD). The President of the Senate must do his duty. I believe that he has done so, and I think - and I understand here the arguments that have been made - that we must at this point carry out our duty as legislators. I think that we should consider this matter for what it is: the exercise of constitutional duty, which is regulated by the President. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u20	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to join in the request made by Mr Romani that President Grasso should intervene in this House when this debate can be resumed before him. I believe that he should give this House a reasoned response to the comments which have been calmly, but firmly, made by those who have preceded me; in particular, I am referring to those who have criticized the choice he has made. From now on, this institution is different. Something serious has happened, beyond the formal aspects, beyond the powers which the Rules of Procedure grant to the President of the Senate, beyond the fact that there is no precedent for such a decision. Something has happened: that third party and that neutrality which should characterize the function of the President of this House and of this institution have failed. The reasons are all political, of course. But once again, in the name of political reasons, a dangerous precedent is created, as well as carrying out an act that is equally dangerous for the relations between the political forces and between them and Italian society. I believe that political dynamics can never be read in criminal terms. I believe that they should not find any explanation in the courts. What should we say about the way in which the Alema Government was formed in the vicinity of the dirty Kosovo war? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What should we say about the ways in which Members have been recruited on the basis of an internal and international political operation, at that time, I repeat, on the eve of a questionable war, which has led, moreover, to an announced humanitarian disaster? What should we say - and perhaps in this case the Public Prosecutor of Naples would have more judicial reasons to intervene - than the strange vote of 2006 in Campania, those results that never arrived in the night and that when they arrived came with significant anomalies, especially in relation to the usual presence of blank cards in the whole of the vote? However, I believe that the place must always remain that of political confrontation, also in order to evaluate serious situations such as the one I referred to earlier and that may have conditioned and spoiled the democratic path of our already fragile nation. I think this 2014 can and should be a decisive year for the future of our country to avoid it, once again, authoritarian and populist adventures. But I think that everyone should contribute to solidifying the nation, to solidifying its institutions, to social cohesion, to ensuring that the country, when it votes, can do so in conditions of greater serenity. Of course, however, the act taken last night by the President of the Senate does not move in this direction, just as those political forces, first of all the one to which he belongs, who encouraged him - we use this euphemism - to make the choice he made. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I have heard, even now from Senator Sacconi, that President Grasso is a very serious act. I would like to remind Senator Sacconi that very serious was what happened in that mid-April 2006, as witnessed by a confession. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). The judiciary must judge him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator. We're all trying to keep our tones down. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I was just about to say he's gonna judge the judiciary. Maybe it's okay, Senator, to listen to what I'm saying. I referred to a confession. Then one can also confess what he wants, but this is, and we are talking about this: the confession of Senator De Gregorio. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). In exchange for what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Falanga. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The gravity of what happened, according to the confession of the then Senator De Gregorio, is therefore a great offense to the Senate. I want to say it again. I am President of the Mixed Group, and it is well known how many changes are taking place during the legislative process: it is absolutely normal, it is part of the political dialectic, also of the nature of the political forces, that some parliamentarians are in dissent, that others change their opinions, that groups and sub-groups are formed. But the charge of selling is quite different. In this case the Senate, the Senate institution - we are talking about this - has been seriously offended. I believe that, in the face of the communication from the court of Naples which in the proceedings considered the Senate to be a party to the offence, the President of the Senate, that is, the institution which - I repeat - was deemed offended in that proceeding, could only decide to become a civil party, which was part of its exclusive prerogatives. This, for an institutional duty and for the defence, even before the citizens, of the very credibility of the Senate institution. You know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen: we are living in complicated, difficult times where there is a huge gap between citizens and institutions. There is a lack of credibility, often very serious, of the institutions themselves. So, all the more so, precisely because we live in this climate, in front of a passage like this the President had an institutional duty to form a civil part. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u26	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the Second Republic was born and died on the border of justice: I have had the opportunity to remind the Senate several times. I too agree with the desire and hope that the Third Republic, which is born, will be born on a completely different frontier. I am happy to join those who believe that the President of the Senate should come to this House to explain his motives, but I have no reason to believe that he has made an abnormal use of his prerogatives: President Grasso has moved perfectly within the framework of the prerogatives conferred on him by the rules, and I have no doubt that the procedure followed, beyond what is claimed, has been impeccable, which, moreover, no one can legally challenge in a well-founded manner. On the other hand, Madam President, if it is not legitimate to be a civil party when it comes to the sale of senators, then it must be explained when it is possible to form a civil party. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Which is not a judgment of merit: we remain perfectly guaranteed... SACCONI (NCD). Once! We used to be! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sacconi, please. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The presumption of innocence persists, but we protect the institutions. And unlike others who sit in this House - I am referring to the Legist colleagues - we do so not once in a while and intermittently. We do not move handcuffs in the Chamber at noon to become guaranteed at 8 o'clock in the evening. We are always guaranteed: whether this concerns Berlusconi or anonymous senators. [[Comments from the LNP-Aut Group.]] On the other hand, if the decision taken by President Grasso had concerned senators with a different name, perhaps we would not be here this morning to discuss it. One last question, Senator Ferrara: 5 May 1821, 5 May. [[Comments of Senators Giovanardi and Ferrara Mario. Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u29	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too believe that President Grasso has moved within the exercise of his prerogatives and I believe it is wrong to turn this opportunity into yet another moment of division in relation to the recent history of our country, in which the unclosed events of the relationship between justice and politics continue to intensify a hatred of a grudge, a non-solution of a civil relationship between majority and opposition, which should instead be normal in a democracy of alternation, in a liberal and parliamentary democracy, as we have known in our democratic and republican history and in the West in general. Of course, there is an unsolved problem, and the Second Republic will have to solve it, on the understanding that this that was born is only an abortion of Second Republic. I hope that the reformist vocation of the beginning of this parliamentary term will continue and come to an end. Of course, however, on all sides we cannot use this theme with alternating currents, and the highest positions of the State must not, with their motivations regarding choices that - I repeat - we respect, that are perfectly legitimate and fall within their prerogatives, give rise to oppositions and polemics such as those we have witnessed this morning. I believe that it was not happy to recall the moral duty, almost marking a distinction between the morality of the gesture that the President of the Senate was going to assume and an undeclared (but that reflected from the statements) immorality of those who thought differently. This way of setting the problem - which I understand is also dictated by the needs of communication or explanation - must nevertheless give way to a much more in-depth, meditated and prudent approach. Painting the Senate, as someone did immediately also in public opinion, in agencies, as an Assembly divided between morals and immorals, between those who are consistent with the ethical foundation of the Republic and those who are not, would take us at the same time on the conceptual, philosophical and political level very far from those that must be the foundations of the Republic and the function of a positive right that certainly cannot ignore fundamental constitutional values, but that cannot be founded on a first abstract ethical that we know from the history where it has already brought us. Second question. It is a very weak reason that since a prosecutor, a judge of preliminary investigations indicates an offended party immediately, this automatically generates a duty. We are part of a Republic, we are an institution of the Republic, we are an operational arm of the Republic. But the Republic is one, the offended part is one: it is the Republic, it is the State, and in all cases this happens, except when there is a direct asset relationship (the constituting a civil part because the employee steals). When, however, the Assembly as such, or the Member of Parliament as such, is involved in the exercise of its functions, it is the Republic that is offended, and it is the State that must form a civil party, it is the State that must be indicated as an offended party. This, of course, is about merit, and on this the distinction between me, along with other modest operators of the law, and a luminary like President Grasso may be different, but it cannot be configured in terms of moral and immoral with respect to the decision that is being taken. This is the vulnus of this decision, which must be respected, which falls within the full legitimacy of the powers of President Grasso, which has been assumed in the exercise of his function, which is fully consistent with the laws in force, but towards which there may be disagreements of merit, which must be respected by all. Otherwise, those who say that justice, law, respect for the Constitution, morality travel according to the odd and even pages, a bit like some interpreters of the Gospel, are right. It can't be like that. As far as we are concerned, we have been perfectly and consciously actors in an important and painful decision such as the one on the clear vote six months ago, as those taken up in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, and we have been consistent, aware and suffering when we have made other decisions on which we cannot accept that anyone distinguishes in terms of morality and immorality. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u32	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, I think I am speaking out of legitimate interest, since this morning I find myself, unmistakably, a civilian party to a trial in which I did not wish to enter. The speeches this morning convince me even more - if need be - of how serious the initiative of President Grasso was. In my opinion, he has made two fundamental mistakes: the first is that he did not distinguish morality from moralism; the second is that he confused the courtrooms with the Senate Chamber. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVI and Senator Albertini.]] I'll explain why. Moralism - I quote from a dictionary - is the tendency to consider and judge things and people with excessive intransigence and often with a good dose of hypocrisy. And it is essential for me, after spending not a few days ago in this House, many hours on an adverb. Then there is an important confusion in which the President of the Senate drives us back. I am referring to the affirmation, from my point of view, of what must be the primacy of politics. President Grasso began well, when he entrusted the Presidency with the decisions to be taken, so that it would be a decision respecting the will of this House. He then decided in another way and, in doing so, continued to exorbitate the judiciary over the legislative one. Ours is not a court of law, but a court of law. [[Applause from Senator Mussolini.]] These decisions had to be taken in this House, and today he had to have the courage to come here to represent his decision. [[Applause from the PI, NCD, FI-PdL XVII Groups]] and LAG).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u34	You have the floor for two minutes, because the representatives of the parliamentary groups have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u35	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sorry, but I'll be there for as long as it takes. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to clear out a misunderstanding relating to Senator Zanda's statements. The constitution of a civil party is a faculty and, Senator Zanda, there are no interlocutions between the judicial authority and those who must exercise that power. Therefore, I consider it a mistake that you referred in your statement to the President of the Court who calls President Grasso to make him a civil party; in fact, if this had ever happened, we would have found ourselves in the presence of an intercourse, probably possible between fellow magistrates, but certainly not possible between those who have to judge and those who have to move an instance that pertains to that judgment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It was simply a communication of the possibility of forming a civil part, with the exercise of the faculties that derived from it. I would add that the subject under discussion was particularly sensitive for another reason: the Senate had decided not to be a civil party at the stage of the preliminary hearing; therefore, with reference to the question that we are struggling today, it was a decision or a uniformity with respect to the previous decision or, evidently, a change of line. For this reason, I warmly welcomed the fact that the Presidency Council had been convened. This was a sign of a democratic and non-authoritarian presidency, as Senator Ferrara pointed out earlier (although I would urge him not to bother Napoleon on matters of this level). I repeat, it was a sign of a democratic presidency, partly because I imagine that President Grasso felt even before that inevitable moral duty he spoke about later. It was a correct passage, in my opinion, and I'll explain it to you, Senator Zanda. While it is true that the President of the Senate represents the Senate, it is also true that the President of the Senate cannot represent the Senate against the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The opinion of the Senate is expressed exactly by the bodies, whether they are the Presidency Council or the Council for the Rules of Procedure, which, in terms of overall representativeness, are Members in the various seats to express the opinion of the Assembly. Madam President, I do not believe that President Grasso has called the Presidency Council with the mental reservation that he has an opinion in favour of the constitution of a civil party, so that he can hide behind that decision. I believe that he did so because of his democratic conception of the Presidency and because of the need, in a case which was the first ever, to listen to the opinion of that institution which he represents. So let's go to the end of the speech. It seems to me that the Senate has spoken in that Presidency Council, which has the representativeness of the whole Senate, in a certain way. It really seems strange and strange that that vote by the Presidency Council, which represented, within the terms of our Rules of Procedure, the opinion of the whole Senate, could have been disregarded in the short time available. So, if that is the case, Madam President, I believe that the request for President Grasso to come here to explain what has happened must be accepted. We want to understand, Madam President, whether the President of the Senate is separated from the institution he represents and whether the Senate's opinion counts little compared to his wishes. Let me give you an example, President. In the case of conflicts of attribution, when we are in court, we pass through the Chamber, because it must decide whether or not it should form - it is clear - a decision taken elsewhere. This is the reality of democracy. When you represent an institution, you do so within the limits and in the terms in which that institution allows it, and in this case Madam President, I believe that the President of the Senate has deviated from this scheme, imagining that he can represent the institution of the Senate against the opinion of his majority. Then, for those of my age who probably have memories of films of the past, in the light of what has happened, that is, a Senate which, by majority, is pronounced against the constitution of a civil party and its President, against that opinion, decides on the contrary its constitution, I think the President of the Senate remembers a bit that Marquis of the Cricket who, when the gendarmes arrive to execute the arrests, reminds the people: "I am me and you... (you are who you are). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u37	You have the right to do so. It's the last surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u38	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Last not! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I took part, in a constructive and responsible spirit, in the meeting of the Presidency Council. So far, a number of colleagues representing the groups, very authoritative Group leaders, and first of all President Romani, who has spoken words that I fully agree with. Yesterday we took part in the meeting of the Presidency Council at which Senator Grasso behaved unfairly towards the members of that Council, which is not a random body, nor an aggregate of friends to whom to ask for an opinion: it is a body of its importance and to which we participate, not representing parliamentary groups. That is why there is the Conference of Leaders where, not by chance, either the President of the Group or the person delegated by him can participate. Participation in the Presidency Council cannot be delegated, because each of us is involved in the quality that this House has given him. And that is not a small detail, because I know that strange calculations have been made on that opinion, whether or not it represents the majority of this House. But the Presidency Council is not the Conference of Leaders. President Grasso could have made a decision. He had the powers, and he could have hired her. He wanted to reunite the Presidency Council, and I first gave him credit for it, and also at the end of the meeting I thanked him for having held that meeting, because it was an act of respect for the Senate. We could also have insisted on a more formal agenda, but I would like to say to the House that, at the beginning of the debate, Senator Commissioner Malan asked what kind of meeting we were doing: if we had to vote, if we had to consult each other and what the procedure was. President Grasso said he wanted to hear everyone, and in fact, we all talked. There was not a vote by show of hands, but all (who in a wider way, who in a more synthetic way, who introducing legal arguments, who remembering that there was no precedent in the long history of the Senate, with positions that did not reflect the belongings to majorities of government or opposition, as it is logical that it should be in an organ of that type) we have expressed ourselves. And it was clear that 10 members of the Presidency Council were opposed to this constitution as a civil party. Moreover, I do not enter into the matter of merit of the trial, but perhaps the Senate should have arisen when governments were dropped. At the time I was a Member of Parliament and not a Senator, but I still remember when Mastella resigned due to judicial events, which I do not know what development they had. That was perhaps an interference in democratic life. And I say that for a government that I opposed, because it wasn't a government that I supported. But I do not want to reopen here the long and difficult history of relations between justice, the judiciary and politics. Yesterday Senator Malan made this point of method, and we accepted the position of President Grasso, who was to listen. Listening there was, the position was clear and, at the end of the meeting, I myself, Senator Calderoli and also Senator Alberti Casellati we resumed the word to ask clearly that there was a verbalization. We asked politely. They did not fight in the Presidency Council to formalise in an even more solemn manner. We have clearly asked for this outcome to be recorded. So there wasn't a vote with a hand up, but there was something more, because 18 people spoke. And this is not the case here, because we always vote, but not everyone who votes speaks. In that place there was an even more significant expression of a simple vote, because there was a statement from each one. Could the President be bound? Evidently not, because he could do what he felt. But once he had summoned that body and listened to its opinion, a form of respect, personal and democratic, had to lead him to respect that outcome and that indication. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] In this way, he offended the Senate and damaged personal, democratic and institutional relations with all of us, who certainly do not have time to waste. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] And I have to say that President Grasso could have done something else. At the end of the speech, he could have said what his opinion was. President Grasso did not speak on the matter, he did not come to the Chamber today. Do we have to wait for him to go to Fazio or the Annunziata on television to explain what he decided and why he decided? He could have anticipated that conclusion at the end of the meeting. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senator Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u39	Please conclude, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u40	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I shall conclude. When it comes to moral duty, the first moral duty is to come to this House and explain the reason for its decisions. That is the moral duty. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] And I say this because, days ago, we acknowledged to Pietro Grasso his courage and the risks he faced, because of events that have led the whole House to express solidarity with him. We know his biography and we acknowledge his commitment to institutions in so many seasons of life. Well, a man who has shown that courage, has the civil courage to take the elevator and come to this House to say why he offended all of us, because he offended the Senate and did not have the courage to motivate and express his choices. Wrong choices, but even more wrong is the method he is following, which humiliates and mortifies the Senate and harms a relationship of loyalty, which he had to respect, to the Presidency Council and to the whole of this House. Take the elevator and face this Assembly with civil courage, to explain whether it is Di Pietro, Woodcock or who else dictates the agenda or whether it is his free determination. Let him tell the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u41	I would like to point out to the House that we are going beyond the possibility that we had decided to give the floor to one senator per group. Senator Alberti Casellati and Senators Malan and Casson asked to speak. Then this debate will be over. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). It didn't end at all! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think - and I will say it at the end - that I will present the things that Senator Romani said first. He's asking Senator Endrizzi to speak, who hasn't spoken yet. We will then conclude on this point and, of course, report back to the President, so that we can move forward with the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u44	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I say now - and I say this very clearly and without hypocrisy - that I believe that President Grasso should resign. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u45	Senator Alberti Casellati.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u46	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Madam President, I would like to finish. You have to do this because yesterday, disregarding what you had decided, on the basis of technical and legal reasons (because you were present, Madam President, and you know very well that it was a round of table not yes or no)... PRESIDENT. As I was present, you know, Senator Alberti Casellati, that there was no decision. Anyway, please go on. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). It wasn't just a round of table yes or no. There were technical and legal reasons which supported the decision of the individual members of the Presidency Council. (The President, Mr Grasso, entered the Chamber and went to the chair.) I see President Grasso. Then I say it to you directly, Mr President: resign. President Grasso: resign. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, please, Senator Alberti Casellati. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). President Grasso, you were yesterday... If you'd like to sit down, President Grasso. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! Shame! (at 10.30 a.m.) Please continue, Senator Alberti Casellati. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was just saying that you should resign, because yesterday you ignored everything that was decided by a majority. (President Grasso spoke with Vice President Faithful and Secretary General.) If you want to listen to me, Mr President, I will continue, otherwise I will wait until you finish talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Alberti Casellati. You can go on, I'll listen to you. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). I would like you to pay attention to me, Mr President, because yesterday you gave rise to this sort of "farce" - I say it in quotes - where you asked each of us for the opinion... (The vice president Fedeli speaks to President Grasso). I am waiting for you to finish your duties, Mr President. I was saying that yesterday you tore up all the rules, tore up the Rules of Procedure, tore up the rules and dignity of the Senate. And I am surprised that this whole House is not rebelling against this act today, because you have stopped your institutional role to assume a political role against personam. I find it frankly intolerable that, as I speak, one does not listen to me. So, Mr. President, tell me... Stop! ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). So, I was saying that you must resign, Mr President. This is a question of moral coherence, because, where an individual disappears an institutional capacity to assume a political role contra personam - because this is a matter - he must resign, he must have the consistency to do so. I say this to defend the dignity of the Senate, because here there have been too many rifts from him against personam. Yesterday, in the debate, we talked about competences, because here it seems that the Senate is not the table of rules. This is the temple of rules. On the basis of which Rules of Procedure did you take this decision? These are Articles 8 and 12, and you yourself, in this House, responding to a request at my first signature and to other Senators of Forza Italia, said that the competences - and you wrote this - are identified by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure. You also said that this list of competences is mandatory. Taxation! He has written this and is in the proceedings of the Presidency Council. Mr President, have you forgotten this, or do you think that the right is like a rubber band, that you pull where you want it? Because you wrote this in order to counter the request made by the observation of the violation of the secrecy of the acts of the Assembly of the elections aimed at ensuring that the acts returned to that body. You are now doing the opposite of what you said just two months ago, and I find this to be institutionally incorrect. I heard then that it was an act due because there was a request. You know better than I that this is not a due act: it is a discretionary act, because the constitution of a civil party, in case there is no, does not involve at all any judgment on the substance of the charge, which belongs exclusively to the judicial authority. I still remember that I have given you very recent sentences of the Penal Court; you told me 'Yes, yes, I certainly look at them, I take account of them.' He took them; but what happened to them? Where did you throw them? In order for jurisdiction, if any, to be established as a civil party, as has been repeatedly said in the Presidency Council, it may have been the State: State-Community. The whole procedure provided for in Article 1 (4) of Law No 3 of 3 January 1991 should therefore have been activated in such cases, which states that the formation of a civil party to the State in criminal proceedings must be authorised by the President of the Council of Ministers. Because here is the State, the all-inclusive dimension that finds expression in the Government of the Republic, is not the Senate of the Republic. And there's a constant address of the Penal Order on this. I gave you the documentation: where did you throw it, President? He called us to throw our thoughts in the basket, without even having the courage to say at the end of sitting what she thought. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I asked him: "President, why do you reserve it?" It has never happened in the history of the Presidency Council that at the end of a round of discussions based on legal technical reasons the President does not say anything. I don't mean to be fooled. I intend to respect here the dignity of a senator and the dignity of a Presidency Council which has delivered an opinion. You crossed him, crossed the bounds of the law. Resign, President: this is consistent with the institutional office. Do you want to be political? The face, but not from that one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u49	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have passed over the past few months and we have done so for the sake of the institutions, and perhaps even going beyond that: further, the very serious decision to clearly, blatantly and violently violate the Rules of Procedure when it forced the clear vote on the known issue of decadence. We, out of respect for the institution, respect for the Senate, the presidency of the Senate and also to you, personally, have decided over the months that have passed to go beyond, because the sense of the institution prevails over even a very serious violation, I repeat violent, of the institution itself: but the institution prevails. But you, Mr President, cannot continue on this path. As the various colleagues who spoke before me said very well, and finally Senator Alberti Casellati, yesterday we were called, with the usual (in this legislature, and only in this) very little advance, to express ourselves on an extremely delicate situation, unprecedented. This convening of the Presidency Council - and it has been clearly pointed out to you, and even if the Offices had not been informed of it - arrived yesterday, I remind you, after the convening of the Parliamentary Committee for prosecutions against the Head of State, which is of no secondary importance, so much so that it is the only meeting of the last seven years. Surely two of us (perhaps others) were also in that Committee. We have asked for this to be taken into account, and we have in good faith, and we have given you this good faith, and we have asked whether there is any particular deadline for such a call to take place precisely on the day of maximum commitment of the House, of the Commissions, of the bicameral bodies, such as this Committee for prosecutions, and we have imagined that in order to summon it precisely on a day such as this there would be a good reason. We have had to contain - both for the very little time available to prepare ourselves, and for the need to intervene in this body, which has expressed itself, among other things, on important issues of its procedure - our arguments to a minimum. My argument, certainly less important than that of Senator Buemi, in the light of this urgency I expressed it in 40 seconds, because we thought that this was only a beginning. You said - as President Gasparri reminded us - that you wanted to hear opinions, you did not say that these opinions were exhaustive and that you would then move on to a decision that would have been yours anyway, so you had to say everything right away. If you have to say everything on that occasion, you do not call an important body, the Presidency Council, without being kind enough to ask for the opinion of a representative for the Group (most representative, the Parent Company), as has always been done in this institution that was once the Senate: you are the President of the Senate, if you remember, it is not the Senate that is the Senate of the President. You have a service function towards the Senate. [[Applause from FI-PdL XVII, LAG and Senator Liuzzi]] , it is not the Senate that has a choir function next to you to give you greater prominence. Then came the decision: the decision based on moral reasons. So I, alongside many other issues, would like to know: what is the timing of this morale? It is a bit slow, because, on the basis of the poor documentation we have received, it appears, ladies and gentlemen of the majority you have, defending the decisions of the President (in fact, part of the majority, which I believe is not the majority of this House: let's say then, colleagues of the Democratic Party and of the Left Ecology and Freedom) that the moral choice of the President took place with a delay of three months. In the documentation it is written that the Senate received this notification on November 5, 2013. But then, what is the reason, what is the moral choice to keep the Senate in the dark and then give the convocation with twenty-four hours of time, when these cards were in possession of the Senate for three months? Does the decision have anything to do with the fact that President Berlusconi was still a majority member three months ago? Perhaps it has something to do with the circumstance that President Berlusconi was still a member of this Senate three months ago? Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that just a few days ago there was an important agreement between the leaders of the two main parties to which others have associated themselves to change the electoral law, to make reforms? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups]] Therefore, this is an exquisitely political act, contrary to the institutions and contrary to its duties. Remember, President, and let us all remember, there is one thing that is not written in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, and it concerns in particular the figure of the President, and it is not written because it would have been indecent to write it, having to be in our blood, in our bones: the President of the Senate must be impartial, otherwise he could not have the powers that the Rules of Procedure assign him. If you're not impartial, you can't be President of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u52	CASSON (PD). Mr President, just a few seconds to speak on this issue, which involves two profiles, one exquisitely legal-trial and the second one of a political nature, with regard to the views requested by the President of the Senate at the Presidency Council. I believe that the President of our Group has spoken very correctly on this political aspect, and I do not have any consideration whatsoever. On the other hand, I believe that some aspects of the first profile need to be clarified in order to remove incorrect assessments, with considerations that have also been made in this House by the Senators of Forza Italia who have spoken, and who have referred almost to the existence of telephone calls, notices, informal communications, sub-banks or anything else. I simply recall some rules of the Code of Criminal Rite, in the sense that, when there is a criminal procedure, the prosecutor, first, in the stage of his investigations, when they end, and then the judge, in the various stages, has the legal obligation, sanctioned by procedure, to identify the offended part, which is an indispensable part of the process. Therefore, in the context of these criminal procedural rules, the judge of the preliminary hearing and of the hearing met exactly this legal obligation to identify the offended party. But that is not only the legal obligation, because the court also has the legal obligation to communicate to the offended party and to quote the offended party in connection with the existence of criminal proceedings for facts that may concern it. In this sense, both Article 419 and Article 429 of the Code of Criminal Procedure oblige the judge to notify the party offended the notice of the preliminary hearing, especially the decree of summons in court, and this obligation is so strong, so binding, that where there is talk of procedural nullity, precisely in this regard, our code, and therefore the legislator, say that it constitutes nullity of general order the lack of notice of the summons in court of the person offended by the crime. So it is simply a matter of taking action by the judge of the rules laid down by Parliament, of applying these rules and of giving due notice. This was done, and it was noted by the President of the Senate, who proceeded, in our view, exactly as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u55	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to address you and your colleagues by trying to bring this matter back, not to the legal level, but to the political and parliamentary level. I recall that I was President of a parliamentary group with 30 members (our Group president also mentioned this) when an operation by Senator Cossiga led me to have eight colleagues, because 22 transferred from their position to the majority to form the Government of Alema. Many of them were rewarded with posts of Minister and Undersecretary, and on that basis the war on Serbia was unleashed, with military actions that cost deaths and injuries, in short, a tragedy of history. NACCARATE (NCD). You're a fool, Giovanardi, don't be silly! GIOVANARDI (NCD). I don't give a judgment... Don't be silly! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, let's keep the debate quiet. GIOVANARDI (NCD). If you will excuse me, I reconstruct known historical events, so I'm talking about situations on which I don't give a judgment or a legal... NACCARATO (NCD). Don't you dare! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's talk about the current situation, if possible. GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, this is the current situation, because the parliamentary history of democracy and politics is not the history of the courts. [[Brusio. References by the President]] So, let's go back to 2006 (this episode has already been remembered when you were not there), when the Minister of the Interior had informally attributed the victory to the center-right, except in Campania, where De Gregorio was candidate, who came from Forza Italia and then had passed through the movement of Di Pietro, and in the night, in an abnormal situation that was repeatedly signaled, what should have been the victory of the center-right turned into the victory of the center-left, with all the resulting polemics. In 2006 the story of De Gregorio, who immediately after the elections returned from where he had come, namely Forza Italia, did not change the parliamentary structure of support to the Prodi Government, supported by senators for life and senators elected abroad, including the legendary Pallar, who had paid this position several times: remember when Pallaro contracted his vote every time, in exchange for situations that the Prodi Government paid through measures in favour of what Pallaro asked for! [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] It didn't change the layout until the story of Mastella.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u56	Senator Giovanardi, can we go back to actuality and leave the story aside, which, apparently, is controversial?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u57	[[Applause from the PD Group]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I am sorry, this is the current situation. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u58	Quiet! GIOVANARDI (NCD). Because then that government fell on the basis of a judicial initiative towards the Minister of Justice Mastella, who caused its collapse. If we come to the news, two years ago the Berlusconi Government, of which I was a member, fell because, after scenes like those of the President of the Fini Chamber, who spoke with a prosecutor in Pescara announcing successive judicial events, we lost dozens of MPs who passed from the majority to the opposition determining the fall of the Government, and from this was born the Government of the technicians. All of these, Mr President, are political and parliamentary issues, issues on which political forces, historians and those who deepen events can give a judgment and on which voters can express themselves, but I never thought that on these events, on which the history of Italy was built, a court should decide. And I never thought that the President of the House or the President of the Senate, at the initiative of some prosecutor, should set up the House or the Senate in judgment with respect to these facts, which also changed the history of our country. Anyone who knows the story of the United States of America knows that if when it came to the famous vote on the amendment that Lincoln promoted to abolish slavery some court in America had reasoned in terms of the Italian courts today...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u59	[[Live comments from the PD Group and Senator Naccarato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u60	Senator Giovanardi, I invited you back to the news and let the story go, please! GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I ask you to return to your role, because you have given us immorals!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u61	[[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u62	I'm telling you to go back to a speech that's relevant to the subject matter and the discussion, that's all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u63	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, this is not a court of law: it is I who determine whether or not you are suffering! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, but you stick to the matter we're dealing with. GIOVANARDI (NCD). The matter is that you, with your moral decision, have given immorals to those who think like me and who are explaining to you that political and parliamentary history is full of episodes such as what we are dealing with, and that if in other countries you had thought so there would still be slavery! The tight entry of the judiciary into parliamentary life and the complicity it finds and has found in the President of the Senate, who yesterday humiliated the Presidency Council that had expressed itself differently, those are a change in democracy and parliamentary dialectics, the prestige and the role that Parliament has in a democratic country! What I have remembered is because on each of these events, in theory, a judicial investigation could be opened: however, casually, in Italy, judicial investigations are always and only in one direction and in the verses of one person. This is what we are discussing this morning! I do not ask you to resign, but I ask you to reconsider your decision, to withdraw the unfortunate phrase on morality and immorality and to determine how the Presidency Council indicated to you yesterday, not by building or endorsing this devastating precedent for democracy, for the autonomy of Parliament and political forces! [[Applause from Senator Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u66	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the position of assurance that we have taken on important occasions concerning Members of this House is well known, but, ladies and gentlemen, that the Senate is not present in a courtroom where we are discussing the free will of its members is absolutely unheard of! If a non-secondary story of the recent past has altered the public image and perception of the Senate, it is that in which the name of the senator has been approached the term "buying and selling". The XV Legislature suffered throughout its course of this approach, used underneath the journalistic background and then entered into historical reconstructions on the duration and fall of the Prodi Government. Now, to these reconstructions there is a risk of adding and overlapping a judicial truth. It is inconceivable that we have nothing to say about it. At the Naples hearing, facts to which the Senate could contribute could be highlighted, since in the procedural documents are mentioned reports of official sessions, missions abroad, positions, possible witnesses, and in any case internal circumstances of the Palaces (see the request of the last legislature of house arrests for former colleague De Gregorio). We socialists - be careful - here in the Senate in that legislature were not present, and we were probably also victims of a forced force not foreign to the climate of spasmodic attention with which majorities counted on the wire of the number 161. I remember that three potential senators from my political and radical areas were excluded for an interpretation of the electoral law that was still to be dissolved, from the judicial point of view. Therefore, not only do we not oppose the reconstruction of the facts, but we want the Senate to open up all the drawers to understand what really happened in those two years. Among other things, the responsibility of the small parties with regard to that affair is constantly recalled and the truth continues to be ignored. These are events that the technical representation in court allows to illuminate much better than receiving a communication and an order of performance of acts requested at times. The judge must be able to ask his questions with the support of all the parties involved and the institution is certainly among them: the Senate is an involved party. If there is, then, compensation for the moral damage inflicted on the Senate by a derogatory way of politicalizing or polluting it, we hope that it will be allocated to citizenship for charitable initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, we need everything, except to fuel the victimism of a condemned man with the fire of anti-politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u69	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you have a straw tail from here to the Quirinale. I, as Senator of the Republic of Forza Italia Group, do not intend to form a civil part against President Berlusconi. You, in fact, cannot force individual senators, since it never happened that the Senate formed a civil part against a person (it happened, however, against employees). So I do not mean - and I say this formally in this House - to be a civilian. You see what you have to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u72	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, having heard Senator Mussolini's statement, I too do not intend to be a civilian, and I am telling you correctly, so that you can also take note of my will. [[Applause from Senator Mussolini]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u73	I understand that all of you in the Forza Italia Group don't want to be a civilian. [[Some Senators of the FI-PdL XVII Group indicate that they want to intervene]] Senator Caliendo asked for the floor earlier. If your Holding Company, in addition to asking for my intervention, threatened that the work of this House would not continue, would also want to interpret the sentiment of the whole Group, perhaps the debate would be accelerated. Please, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u74	Mr President, I asked to speak a little before many others have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u75	I'm sorry; however, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u76	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have a great deal of respect for the institutions and, in particular, for the office of the President of the Republic and that of the President of the Senate. In respect for charges, the modes of behavior are very valuable. When you spoke yesterday of moral duty, I confess to you that I was disconcerted. In fact, I asked myself: are those ten who have expressed the opposite view immoral? VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Yes! Yes! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I don't think so. You know like me - both former magistrates - that it is necessary for this country to take off this dress that leads it to recognize or seek consent to judicial action. You know that at the time of Clean Hands, despite the fact that the parliamentary group of which I am a member expressed the utmost consent and represented a force of consensus in the action of the judiciary, I criticized that action, because justice, the intervention of the judge, cannot have popular consent; it must disregard that. So how can you support the reasons for a moral duty? If that were the case, you would not have had to convene the Presidency Council: a moral duty does not allow any possibility of confrontation. I made a choice myself a few months ago, and I did it without listening to my group. Moral duty is such that it does not allow you to listen to others, but once you listen, tell me, why did you speak of moral duty? You've already solved the doubt that grabs me. What's the offense? The prosecutor or the judge of Naples didn't identify her. I believe that a republican institution at the level of the Senate of the Republic should pose the problem of determining which part is offended, to evaluate, also on the basis of the accusatory hypothesis, the activity carried out in this House in those years and when it goes back, with reference to the end of the Prodi Government, the eventual or hypothesised sale. So, I ask you, was there a connection, or wasn't there? If there was, then was it the Senate that was offended, or the Presidency of the Council? I don't know. I think we couldn't supinely adjust to the judge's and prosecutor's identification. I agree with Senator Casson: surely their idea has been properly notified to the Senate. The Senate, however, had to pose the problem of whether or not it was an offense, given its institutional importance. I recognise to you, President, the representation of the entire Senate, but either you exercise that representation without consulting yourself or, if you consult, you must take into account the will of the Senate, the bodies you summon: otherwise you do not need to convene them. Otherwise, it is no longer a moral duty, but it becomes a conditional and conditional choice by other factors, by other assessments, including political ones. Mr President, it has been twenty years - and you know this better than I do - that we live in an altered system, in a political system conditioned by judicial intervention, not always inspired by the principle of equality of citizens. You know better than I that there has been a series of judicial interventions in this country - and I could quote them one by one - with behaviors that have not been inspired by the principle of equality of citizens before the law. In this Chamber, too, we have witnessed the rifts of regulations and laws, violations of the law, contradictions in relation to the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the United Chambers of the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, we are here to work fairly. Then we cannot be fooled: Mr President, the logic of moral duty leads you to explain to us why, if you had this moral duty, you felt the need to hear the Presidency Council. To make fun of the components, hoping for a confirmation of your assessment? I don't think so: I have too much respect for your function to believe such a thing. I think it was just an expression, to motivate a decision of his, so I find no reason and no explanation, beyond that I probably decided before, not for a moral duty, but because he probably felt, in his free choice, that it was right or that it was necessary to please or adapt to what had been identified by the prosecutor or the judge. But if it had been a moral duty, then it would have had to act before convening the Presidency Council, and not mocking others, treating them with an immorality that they do not have. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u79	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce that, in relation to the events that have taken place, I personally would like to deliver a letter in which it is written that I do not intend to be a civil party, as a senator of the Republic, in the proceedings that you wanted to promote against President Silvio Berlusconi. I'd like you to be on the record, and I'll give you a letter containing my personal will. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u80	All right, I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u83	ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). I too, Mr President, like Mr Marin, Mr Mussolini and Mr Mandelli, will deliver a statement in which it is written that I do not intend to be a civilian. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u86	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I have no letters to deliver, but I would like to make a very brief comment, because I see that there is a great deal of pain around, but something has to be said. Senator Caliendo, as a jurist, has the power to make myself understood by myself, who hangs more chemistry than jurisprudence. It comforts me the thought of Senator Caliendo, because it overlaps with mine. In here we must not use doses of hypocrisy, beyond what is physiological in political action and parliamentary practice. In this nation it has been more than twenty years that politics has stripped itself, for an act of demagogy and populism, of one of the constitutional healings to defend itself from another order, which then became power, which is the judicial order. And over the course of these years, it has acted very often with good reason, because politics has not given good examples, sometimes wrongly, because it has been a strabic power, oriented towards a political part and not to the general coalition of all political forces in the field. No one in this House who does not want to inspire hypocrisy could deny a simple evidence: that there is a condition that makes politics subordinate. Not in the sense that it is subordinate because it cannot do different things, but in the sense that it is a spectacular politics, that passes through the talk shows, the headlines and that it looks not at the contents, but at the effects of the news. The intervention of the judiciary often contributes indirectly to forming judgments in a public opinion that increasingly interacts superficially, epidermally through the networks and thus feeds a series of judgments. Why do I say that? In my opinion, you have the right to do what you have done, we do not discuss it, even though it is a faculty, not an obligation, and everything that is optional is questionable. So you don't have to feel sorry for someone this morning who blames you for something. Not so much the fact that we have convened the Presidency Council and the Commission and then decided unheard of alters part. If he had the heart to decide within the scope of his prerogatives, he could have decided and explained, however, why he availed himself of that faculty. I believe that he had to do this not only out of courtesy, but also in substance, in this House. He could have come to this House, made a statement explaining why he had decided that particular thing. You not only did not listen to the bodies you yourself have called and did not feel bound to the debate that took place, but you put us in front of a news that we have heard from the press and that I believe we should have learned in this House. Since it is allowed, it would have been possible to discuss half an hour or three quarters of an hour on facts that have an epochal value, since it seems that this is one of the very rare times, if not the only (I do not know the parliamentary annals) that happens. He had to come to the House to inform the House and also accept that it had different views. You are presiding over the Senate, in my humble opinion, because in the role of eminent anti-Mafia magistrate the left wanted to understand, satisfying and meeting the duties of a certain judiciary, that the Senate should have at the top not a great politician, a historian, a sociologist or an expert in law, but even a great magistrate. He reminded me of the operations that the Presidents of the Regions do. When in an ASL you steal or there is some reason for scandal, you take a general of the Carabinieri or the Finance Guard and appoint him commissioner. This is a wrong attitude. She was then, and she has relapses now, because she reasoned as a magistrate, not as President of the Senate. Sartre used to say, in defining existentialism, that it is all that one can only be. You magistrate is and magistrate remains. At this moment, we take the view that you feel more about yourself the moral imperative that comes from your custom and formation than the fact that you are chairing a political body, Mr President. If you don't remember this, turn the Senate Chamber into a courtroom Registry. You transform this political-institutional body into the appendix of decisions that are defined in other forums that have nothing to do with parliamentary voting and parliamentary sovereignty. So, let's decide once and for all: take a course as President of the Senate and set aside a mindset that serves the criminals. In here, until proven otherwise, there are none. Remember that! [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII.]] D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u87	You have the right to do so. I believe, however, that the debate has now been abundantly, let us say, plowed. I don't want to take anyone's word for it, because it's a personal matter, and it looks like I don't want to listen to anyone. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] However, I would like to draw the senators' attention to the conciseness and brevity of the speeches so that I may have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u88	I will certainly be brief, Mr President. I also appreciate your politeness in not making an asphyxiating debate, which has been structured in a way that is not even sufficiently extensive. In fact, the sense of discomfort, embarrassment and real difficulty that we record cannot be implied. This was well expressed by my Parent Company, coming to the hypothesis of the most hateful act, but necessary to express the suffering for the wound that today, Mr President, is produced to the country and democracy, at a time when it needs instead to recover elements of peace. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It is a bad page for the life of institutions and for the life of the Senate. Mr President, you know how respectfully I have maintained my relations with you in the exercise of your authoritative mandate. Allow me, however, to point out to you that I am offended, and I am part of an army of senators who feel offended and discriminated against by your decision. The sense of ethics and morality belongs to our daily behavior carried out also in the name of the sovereign people. We are here to witness it once again, with calm tones, but determined, determined and even solemn. On this basis and on this basis, Mr President, I would ask you, please, to reconsider the decision which, as a result of the audit, alters part, but in an entirely autonomous way, you have considered boldly - in my opinion - that you want to take. On behalf of the colleagues elected in the Puglia Circumscription, Senators Amoruso, Bruni, Bruno, Liuzzi, Perrone, Zizza, Iurlaro, Tarquinio and, of course, of those who speak, I express in a determined way the absolute opposition to constituting a civil part of the procedure that you have decided to adopt. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u91	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as other Members have already done, I too intend to formalise the fact that I do not share the constitution of the Senate as a civil part of the trial against President Berlusconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u94	COLUCCI (NCD). Mr President, I would just like to say that I believe that the proposals and assessments of Senators Gasparri, Alberti Casellati and Malan must be supported, and I find myself completely on them. As Senator of the Republic I declare that I do not intend to form a civil part against President Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as stated in the Presidency Council, I repeat that the entire 5 Star Movement is in favour of your choice. Finally - let's say finally - the institution of the Senate restores dignity to both the senators and all the citizens who are outside. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] One word, Mr President: honesty. And it is this word that will return to fashion even inside the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u98	President, you cannot allow such a phrase. You can't say honesty wasn't in the senate's fashion. You must protect the Senate, President! Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You can't let a senator say that there are dishonests in here! D'ANNA (GAL). (Returning to Senator Santangelo.) You rascal! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, please calm down.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u101	CARDINALI (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor... [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, but... FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). President, you cannot allow this in this House! (Senator Falanga heads towards the benches of the 5 Star Movement, but is stopped by parliamentary assistants). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we had kept the debate on certain tones. Senator Falanga, please. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u102	Please, Senator Cardinals, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u103	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm honest, and I'm not dishonest. I won't allow anyone to say otherwise. CARDINALI (PD). Mr President, I would like to say on behalf of the whole Group of Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party that we are proud and proud to be a civil part of this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If necessary, we will deliver a letter with everyone's signatures. We thank you, President, for your choice. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Senator Caliendo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u104	Sorry, but you requested my presence, and now I'm here. If you can listen to me, if you want to listen to me, otherwise the hearing will continue... continue the Chamber. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] D'ANNA (GAL). Freudian lapsus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...in the sense that I was willing to listen. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] Senator Falanga, I think the debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u105	Mr President, on the desire not to be a civilian, you spoke earlier, at the beginning of Senator Caliendo's speech, of being able to interpret the thoughts of the other senators. Then the will to form a civil part or not cannot be interpreted, but must be punctually declared. It is for these reasons that Senators Milo, Longo, De Siano, Fasano, Cardiello, Sibilia, Langella and Scoma have instructed me to declare to you that we do not intend to constitute a civil part of us. It is good that the statement of each of us, that is to say of all those who do not feel proud that the Senate has been a civil party, remains in the record. We express our pride and live in different circumstances, and certainly not in the will of the constitution of a civil part. Mr President, I must also add that you have just interrupted Senator Giovanardi more than once because, in your opinion, he was talking about previous events and therefore not related to the subject that was being discussed. She interrupted him two or three times, but I do not believe (that was her assessment) that Senator Giovanardi had gone off the subject (the only hypothesis that allows her to take the word off). After a while, Senator Buemi took the floor, and he also began to talk about facts of the past. But you didn't interrupt him. Mr President, I have a request that you bear in mind. I need, as a fraction of this Senate's power, to respect them. Please, Mr President, help me to respect you, because otherwise you put me in a state of uneasiness that does not belong to me, by history, culture and tradition. I beg you, President, to ensure that I can respect you. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u106	Thank you. I'll try to help you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u109	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too wanted to call back the third-party of your mandate and I wanted to call you to respect the will of the majority in this House. By saying this, on behalf of the Lombard senators Piccinelli, Pagnoncelli, Zuffada, Conti, Serafini, Sciascia and Messina, as well as myself, we say no to the constitution of a civil part by the Senate. PERRONE (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perrone, because I think you want to speak in order to make the same statement, the Presidency takes note of that. RUVOLO (GAL). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u110	Senator Ruvolo, it seems to me that you too are willing not to be a civilian party to President Berlusconi. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u113	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I have not sent you a letter, I would like to say, in conjunction with what my colleagues have already said, that I have no desire to be a civilian party to President Berlusconi in the ongoing process in Naples. Please note that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u115	Senator Palma, I think you've already intervened. If, however, there are other elements that you wish to communicate to this House, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u116	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak on another matter, which is exactly the following. You represent the Senate, and you are responsible for any intervention to protect the Senate, especially when, within this House - and this is not the first time - there is a generality of accusations involving, precisely because of its generality, the whole body. Mr President, I, as President of the Commission, sent you a letter a few days ago, which concerned a very regrettable fact in my view, on which I hope you can take your initiatives. A fact that is absolutely similar to that which happened in this House, where people are pointed out to the public with very serious accusations (in this case, today, of dishonesty and, in the other case, of being servants of the mafia and the camorristi), just because in this House there is a different idea from who speaks. So, Mr President, just now there was a need for assistants to stop the indignation of Senator Falanga, but surely that impetus would not have been there (and there would have been only indignation) if you had immediately intervened. Mr President, you cannot allow anyone in this House to say that honesty is not in this House. You cannot allow anyone, Mr President, to say that the return of honesty is directly related to the constitution in court, not least because, beyond the expressions of will that have been expressed by many colleagues, I have the impression that, as often happens, the 5 Star Movement has not grasped the significance of the debate that has been the subject of the order of business. The significance of this debate was precisely the contrast between its position and the Presidency Council, the Presidency Council which it had decided to convene and which is considered representative of the whole House. You see, Mr President, I say this with great serenity, and it does not give me a veil of age or alas, compared to a few years ago, a significant increase in weight (it is the attendance of Senator Barani who ruins me, Mr President). Either you intervene whenever in this House there is an insult to the gravity of what we have just heard, or what has been in the process of discussing the draft law amending Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, as it is your duty, Mr President, to protect the good repute of the Senate institution, that is, of course, you cannot be sorry if someone tries to assert their reasons. You see, Mr President, when it is said that honesty does not exist here, this accusation does not affect myself or Senators Caliendo, Zanda or Casson individually, but, precisely because of its general nature, it affects the entire House, including those who are members of the Group of those who have spoken. You must have the image of this House at heart; you have a duty to defend it. But, if you let go of infamous accusations of such gravity, you play the game of anti-politics, probably an anti-politics policy too close to you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u117	I would first of all like to clear out some of the things that have been said, firstly that I did not have the courage to intervene at this time in this House, whereas my absence was determined by previous commitments already made, which, given the necessity (I realized the duty to be present), I cancelled and neglected. So, it wasn't a lack of courage, it wasn't a coward's escape, also because I never had any of these defiances. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAPp groups.]] Then I would like to clear the field immediately from a misunderstanding, which was created on the basis of statements that concern precisely that moral duty, which was put at the center of a decision that absolutely did not want to be something that, on the other hand, intended to emphasize the immorality of those who did not agree. I must say, I was very surprised. I could have expected controversy, of course. The decisions I have always made in my life, with courage and determination, have accustomed me to criticism and contrasts. However, I was surprised and surprised by the tone so bright of aggression on a fact that in my opinion, unfortunately, for my evaluation (now we will analyze what it comes from), it was instead a duty. Let us leave aside the moral problem, because I did not mean to deny the immorality of those who do not agree with me. This must be clear, and I apologize if there has been this deformation of what was my thought. Perhaps the part I wanted to say, after a long labor that I assure you there was, is that I intended to represent the Senate, as stated in Rule 8 of our Rules of Procedure. I meant to represent him to defend his dignity and image. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] at a time when someone, who is the prosecutor and, if this position is confirmed, the judge, believes that the Senate can be considered an offense, an injured party, someone who has been harmed in his rights and in his image. Those who are experts in criminal proceedings know that forming a civil party is a possibility, yes, but it has a period of decadence, which is given by the formalities of opening the debate: after those we can no longer form a civil part. My concern, as a representative of the Senate, was not to be able to assert a faculty that the Senate has, to be submitted to the judge, who is the court. The statement was made in the stages of the prosecutor's office, then of the judge of the preliminary hearing and, then, will be made by the court when, in the constitution of the parties, it evaluates what Senator Alberti Casellati correctly says, on the basis of the judgments that I have had the opportunity to consult, regarding the fact that it is actually possible to consider the Senate as an offended party or not. My prioristic choice would have prevented a court from assessing this aspect; i.e. if, at a preliminary stage, at the stage of the admissibility of the parties to a trial, the Senate were effectively entitled to rights that were harmed. This is one of the reasons why I felt, when I had to make this decision, to castrate, to block the possibility that the Senate, its dignity and its image, could be taken into consideration in a trial that never existed. If there is no precedent in the Senate, perhaps it is because there has never been such a trial that has come to judgment: perhaps there have been investigations in the past, but not such a trial. I understand that it is an indictment, that it is the accusation that will have to be proved, but it impressed me that in that act there are the dates of the sessions in which the facts were to be committed. This will probably be denied, it will be the subject of debate, but they are facts they hire. There is therefore no prejudice against the accused and no will for persecution, it is only participation: I felt, in representing the Senate, to be present. It doesn't have anything to do with my previous business. I felt I was doing this in my capacity as President of the Senate. As to the fact of being a magistrate, the magistrates never constituted themselves a civil part; therefore this comparison has nothing to do with it. Moreover, out of respect, I did not intend to humiliate the Presidency Council at all; this idea is far from any hypothesis and any prospect. The Leaders know that I have contacted them and informed them that there was this problem. It is true that the problem arose a long time ago for notification but the deadline for revocation is set at the hearing on 11 February, 9 a.m., before the court, section four. So, there was time. I must add that there was a previous notification at the time when the PM and the judge of the preliminary hearing notified the existence of such a hearing, in which we were also mentioned there as an offended party with the power to turn ourselves in to follow the trial, possibly bring witnesses and be able to participate. Well, the choice, without consulting anyone, then, was to consider that it was still a preliminary phase: "Let's see for a moment what happens, if the judge of the preliminary hearing then intends to refer it to trial or not." In fact, in the absence of a trial, it would have seemed to me that it would have been ultraroneo to go and represent the Senate there. That was my assessment. When the subsequent notification of the referral to trial came, the situation changed: the trial was created, the quality of the offended party, which the judge for the preliminary hearing confirmed, was confirmed. I thought then of informing the leaders politically of the matter; and I did so in good time, so that they could also inform their representatives in the Presidency Council of the matter in advance. It may have been a margin of only two days, but I think that two days are enough to be able to assess technically, as I have seen in the course of the arguments put forward, and also to politically assess the expression of arguments during the sitting. Senator Malan correctly asked for explanations at the beginning of the sitting of the Presidency Council, and I made it clear that I wanted to hear the arguments. Look, the use of words is important. When I heard the arguments, I intended to say that we would not vote; I meant that I did not ask for an opinion, because it is written in the Rules of Procedure when the opinion should be requested from the Presidency Council by the President. Therefore, it is quite clear to those who know the Rules of Procedure that this was a consultation of the Presidency Council that I wanted to respect precisely in order to hear the arguments and try, if any, to convince myself in one direction or another. I can say that I went to the Presidency Council absolutely open to any solution. Senator Alberti Casellati immediately posed a question of competence and considered that the Presidency Council was not competent to decide; which strengthened me in the idea that in exercising the function of representing the Senate proper to the President I should have decided in a completely discretionary way. So I listened to all 18 members of the Council. We got out right away with numbers, but there was no vote, and I want it to be clear. You can confirm that there was no vote. Those who spoke were counted, but in the arguments everyone expressed their positions, either in a brief or more detailed way, as in the case of Senator Alberti Casellati, whom I appreciated for his arguments, not only on the subject of competence but also on the speech of the offended party. Well, I knew those judgments, I reread them and - since the Supreme Court sometimes pronounced judgments of opposite sign on the evaluation of the person offended, and not only those who were represented - I felt that it was necessary for the President of an institution such as the Senate to proceed. Excuse me, you're talking about state, but aren't we part of the state? I'd like to know: is the Senate part of the state or not? [[Applause from the M5S, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed-SEL groups]] It seems that the State apparatus is something else, that only the President of the Council should proceed. There's a law... [[Comments of Senator Alberti Casellati]] Senator Alberti Casellati, you have already spoken: let me complete the speech. So, I've strengthened myself that the competence should be mine. I think I've submitted the matter to the court's admissibility judgment so as not to deprive the Senate of this possibility of participation. Let's not forget that there are also senators referred to as texts in that process: let's not forget (it was detected precisely by Senator Calderoli). The Senate has a direct interest in following that process, because it is the image of the Senate, it is the dignity of the Senate; it must be present and ensure that everything takes place according to the rules, precisely in order to respect the dignity of the Senate. That's my assessment. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] It's not about moral duty. I understood my duty, let's leave the moral word aside... Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). She used it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already made it clear that I absolutely did not mean to deny immorality to those who have only expressed political, or technical-juridical, considerations which are an absolutely different field. Maybe we need some idealism. I do not want to enter into the difficult relationship between ethics and politics [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and therefore, from this point of view... ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). You don't teach us that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course. We are complaining that this is the first time that the Senate has constituted itself, but it has never happened that there has been a process in which there are senators, former senators, luckily, who have admitted... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I speak... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me finish the sentence. I meant to talk about Senator De Gregorio... [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Sorry, you didn't let me finish the sentence. [[Protests from FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG groups.]] VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You didn't let me finish the sentence. FERRARA Mario (GAL). It's not like that! VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You didn't let me finish the sentence: I thought of senators, like Senator De Gregorio, who represented certain things. FERRARA Mario (GAL). You have to apologize! You have to apologize! Apologize! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was therefore a free choice, a discretionary choice, a clearly difficult choice. I didn't mean to mention... We are forced to leave the Chamber! [[The senators of the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups leave the Chamber.]] I meant alluding to those who represented facts... [[Comments of Senator Ferrara Mario, who descends into the hemicycle.]] Senator Ferrara, if you want to leave the Chamber, leave it. FERRARA Mario (GAL). I do what I want, and she doesn't invite me to do every time... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So if you do what you want, step away. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). Again, ma'am? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Has a process ever been instituted? So, I mean, there was no compensation intent, there was no intent... [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] I mean, you wanted to hear me, but if you don't let me talk... DIVINE (LN-Aut). Ma'am, he went looking for her and beat the shit out of him! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's lucky! [[Applause from the PD Group]] So my respect for the institutions, the Senate, has led me to this decision. I assure you that my determinations have been taken absolutely to the maximum of solitude, without even following all those agencies which, to put pressure on, were dictated by those who had participated in the meeting of the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , that I have not read, I have not seen, except after my decision, just to not let me influence either side. I can assure you of that, because I did so precisely so that I could be absolutely free to decide according to my prerogatives. That's what I did. Then, let's say one thing: the constitution of a civil party can also be revoked. Then, if there is a will of the whole House to revoke the constitution of a civil party, there are parliamentary instruments to be able to do so if necessary. Personally, I continue to believe that the prerogatives are of the President of the Senate and I believe that this must remain something absolutely firm. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I repeat, something like this seemed perfectly normal to me, I do not think there has been any excess: it is normal for an injured party to assert its reasons, and since I believe that the Senate, in this context and with the representation of these facts, is an injured party, this was a decision that I took with full responsibility. I took it above the sides and after hearing everyone's arguments, I took it without suffering any pressure, not even psychological and of any kind, and without hearing anyone, as it was surreptitiously and in a somewhat agonizing and suggestive way. I have heard absolutely no one, and I have decided in complete autonomy and independence. We may not agree, but I repeat that I am aware of the discretionary choices that my function gives me. I hope that, after this moment, we can calmly resume our work by continuing to be considered super partes, as I have been, I assure you, in making this decision. And I did not mean to humiliate anyone at all, but I wanted to exalt the role of those who are members of the Presidency Council. So, to avoid this, what was I supposed to do? Accessing the arguments of one party or another? I've decided super partes, and I assure you I'll continue to be super partes. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Mixed SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u118	Colleagues, I greet the students of the Institute "Sant'Orsola" in Catania who have followed this moment of the Assembly's work. [[Applause.]] 11.51 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u119	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00199 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, 1-00200, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, 1-00209, presented by Senator Dalla Tor and other senators, 1-00210, presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators, and 1-00212, presented by Senator Dalla Zuanna and other senators, on the transit of the great ships into the Venice lagoon. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon sitting there was an illustration of the motions and the ensuing discussion. The G1 agenda was also presented, signed by the signatories of all motions, the text of which is being distributed. Motions will therefore not be put to the vote. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u120	Madam President, as is well known, in the encounter held on 5 November 2013 near the Presidency of the Council on the great ships in transit in the lagoon of Venice, presided by the President of the Council and to which the Ministers of infrastructures and transports have participated, the environment, the territory and the protection of the sea, the goods and cultural activities and the tourism, the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, the President of the Veneto Region, the Mayor of Venice and the President of the harbour Authority of Venice, has been decided to prohibit the transit of the ships from cruise directed or in departure from Venice for the Canal of the Giudecca and to preview a new way of access to the Marine station, located in the Contorta channel Sant'Angelo, as branch of the Malamocco-Marghera channel. Such solution, in fact, currently presents the characteristics of progettuale advancement, of safeguard of the safety of navigation and compatibility with the rest of the harbour activity such as to make it technically the practicable alternative way and more promptly pursueable. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u121	I beg your pardon, Undersecretary. I would ask colleagues in this House to lower the volume of the item.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u122	GIRLANDA, State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport. In coherence with such decisions, the Minister of infrastructures and the transports has given mandate to the Harbour office of Venice, which subject identified from article 3, paragraph 1 of the interministerial decree so-called Clini-Passera, to formalize with own provision the identification of the practicable alternative way of access to the Sea Station, in order to allow this Ministry to start the consequent administrative procedure for its sent realization. Such formalization has happened with decree n. 472 in date 5 December 2013 of the Harbour office of Venice that, in consistency with the state of the plans at the moment predisposed, defines the way of the Contorta-Sant'Angelo as alternative navigable way with the technical-nautical characteristics such as to guarantee the safety of navigation. The same decree of the Maritime Authority, to article 2, brings with extreme clarity, in consistency with the ministerial indications received, that the project Contorta-Sant'Angelo, in the evaluation of environmental impact, will be the subject of comparison about the environmental and socio-economic sustainability with all the other ways of access, independently from the state of progress of planning, for the current marine Station. the same Harbour office has, finally, issued the order n. 153 of 5 December 2013 that adopts, of understanding with the Magistrate to the waters of Venice and the Harbour Authority, a series of ulterior and meaningful measures finalized to mitigate the risks connected to the transitional regime, in the more of the realization of the new way of access to the Marine station, between which, in particular, the maximum number of the transits of ships from superior passengers to the 40.000 tons of tonnage for 2014, obtaining the objective of their meaningful reduction; is prohibited from 5 April 2014 the transit of the ferry ships (Ro-Ro and Ro-Pax) in the channel of the Giudecca; it is arranged for the crocieristica season 2015 the prohibition of transit in the Channel of the Giudecca of the fleeting ships superior to 96.000 tons of tonnage; from 1 January 2014 the contemporary placing of more than five fleeting ships exceeds the 40.000 tons of tonnage in the moorings of the marine Station is prohibited. Finally, as to the intention to include the work in the Programme of national strategic infrastructures, following the signing of a special agreement with the Veneto Region, this is a consequence of the evaluation of the objective importance attributed to the work, without wishing in any way to prejudice the conduct on this project of the necessary environmental impact assessment, nor of the repeatedly stated need for comparison on environmental and socio-economic sustainability compared to the other routes of access assumed to the current Marine Station. Such insertion, moreover, poses as necessary consequence of the engagement several times manifested to provide a sure solution, in sure and reasonable times, in order to avoid that the uncertainty can represent an ulterior element of economic and social penalize regarding the measures of limitation of the marine transits in lagoon, emanated for the years 2014 and 2015 from the Harbour office, to the day after the identification of the Channel Sant'Angelo-Contorta which alternative way of navigation more readily executable and achievable for the access to the current Marine station. The use of the objective law, moreover, would obviously simplify the question of possible cover for the burdens resulting from the realization of the works connected to the project that will be identified. With regard to the agenda G1, I would propose a rewording of point 1) of the device in this sense: to ensure that all the solutions presented by the various public and private subjects, are previously and simultaneously compared and considered in the environmental assessment, regardless of the state of progress of the project, also with the possible use of procedures characteristic of the objective law concerning the EIA or VAS legislation, appropriately strengthened, through a transparent process and participated and felt the Commission for the safeguard of Venice. This is the rewording of the agenda that I intend to propose to the authors. In any case, the Government intends to return to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u125	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I have not quite understood the reformulation proposed by the Undersecretary. However, I would point out that the agenda for the G1 was also signed by the senators of the North League. It is therefore a unitary text which gathers the contents of the motions submitted. I take note of the formal name that this document assumes, but in essence it retains the character of the motion and it is an act that commits the Government. I would like that to be recorded in the Minutes. However, I did not understand the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Girlanda, can you read the text of the reworded agenda again? I would also like to ask Members to pay attention so that they can continue their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u126	Point (1) of the proposal in the reworded text states: "to ensure that all solutions presented by the various public and private subjects are first and simultaneously compared and considered in the environmental assessment, regardless of the state of progress of the project, even with the possible use of procedures characteristic of the objective law concerning the EIA or VAS legislation, appropriately strengthened, through a transparent process and participated and heard the Commission for the safeguard of Venice." Thus, the words: "in the normal way" would be replaced by the following: "Also with the possible use of procedures characteristic of the objective law relating to "the".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u128	Please, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u129	CASSON (PD). Madam President, the G1 unitary agenda is the result of a very long analysis carried out during yesterday's day and evening. It has been signed by all the groups and this morning the signing of the senators of the North League Group has also arrived, if I am not mistaken. The wording proposed by the Undersecretary makes us go back a week. We totally disagree. I have consulted the signatories present and they have all expressed their opposition. This is the text agreed between all and this is the text that I would like to put to the vote of the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If we have understood correctly, the Undersecretary has said that he is still returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u130	That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u131	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u134	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, Venice, as has often been the case in its history, is now in a paradox. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u135	Please, colleagues, Senator Dalla Zuanna can't even talk. Senator Tocci, please move.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u136	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). On the one hand, lives an unprecedented tourist and technological moment: for the boom of the crocieristico tourism, for the numerous initiatives that attract visitors now in all the seasons of the year and for the enterprise of the MOSE, one of the greatest works of the Italian engineering of the last decades. On the other hand, Venice is depopulating; the lagoon lives worrying and accelerated erosive processes; many economic activities have abandoned the area, in particular that of Porto Marghera. In the environmental commission of the Senate a new special law has been incardinated for Venice that has own the objective to fight and eliminate the negative aspects, putting in the field new economic resources, in particular through the logistics and the offshore commercial port that can become an extraordinary flywheel of development for the high Adriatic and for Central Europe. The new special law will then reason in terms of integrated safeguard, in particular by fighting erosive phenomena favoring the introduction of sediments in the lagoon. To this end, it will also be proposed the realization of the canal from Padua to the lagoon, which may have a crucial role for the contrast of floods, which are also afflicting Padua and Venetian. Finally, in the special law it will have to be guaranteed also the optimal management of the MOSE, safeguarding the extraordinary experience engineering, hydraulic and scientific matured in these years, in respect of the right of self-management of the local communities and the harbour authorities, but remembering that Venice is - first of all - patrimony of all Italians and of all humanity. Having said this, the challenge of the coming months and years is to maintain and if possible accentuate the tourist vocation of Venice, in particular the crocieristica, safeguarding at the same time the lagoon and the city. The unitary agenda - signed by all the groups - goes in this very direction. In respect of the so-called decree Monti-Clini-Passera, of 2 May 2012, the agenda asks the Government to identify an alternative solution to the passage of the great ships for the canal of the Giudecca, so that Venice can remain the greater crocieristico home port of the Mediterranean. The Government is asked to ensure that all the solutions presented by the various parties, public and private, are previously and simultaneously compared and considered in the environmental assessment, regardless of the state of progress of the project, with the normal modalities provided for in the EIA and VAS regulations, appropriately enhanced, through a transparent and participated process, heard the Commission for the protection of Venice. To the Government is asked also to place to the center of the comparative assessment the correspondence of the scenarios previewed to the planning conditions, that is the compatibility of environmental impact, the speed of execution, the flexibility, the graduality and the reversibility, the impact on the economy of field in the transitional phase and the continuity of the crocieristica offer, the entity of the resources to employ, the economic and environmental sustainability of long period and, of course, respect of the regulations in force. The Government is also asked to start comparative assessments of solutions submitted within 30 days and to conclude them within three months, taking into account the need to guarantee employment levels. Finally, the Government is asked - once the choice has been made in the manner, the guarantees and the times mentioned above - to carry out the subsequent work as soon as possible, respecting the current legislation. Therefore, we ask that the text be maintained as it is, because it seems more than sufficient to guarantee the continuity of the crocieristica activity. In conclusion, the unanimous approval of this agenda would be an important signal for Venice, also in view of the discussion of the new special law, accepting the challenge of contesting tourism and safeguarding and - above all - to guarantee the Venetians the possibility of living well in their city. For this reason, Civic Choice asks the whole Senate to converge towards the unitary agenda proposed by all the Groups. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u139	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the problem of the transit of the so-called giants of the sea near the coasts, particularly in sensitive areas such as the Venice lagoon, undoubtedly deserves a detailed examination, but taking into account all the necessary variables, from environmental to economic and commercial ones. With the motions presented it was intended to direct the speech precisely in this direction, beyond the easy and harmful demagogy. The definition of a single text, which we arrived at yesterday afternoon, is, in my view, certainly a confirmation of this will. In order to take a good look at the problem covered by these interventions, I believe that the statements - of the last few hours - of the economic categories, which have expressed all their concern in this regard, highlight the doubt that perhaps they have not fully understood the scope of the provisions and the enormous risks associated with the occupational and economic consequences for the whole Province, if too restrictive or restrictive measures were to be adopted on this subject. Therefore, the priority is to proceed, with a lucid approach, to mediation and to the reasoning on the possibilities of remodulation of the management of the coastal transit and the limitation of the damages that this could involve. In this perspective, the motion tabled by my colleague Dalla Zuanna was well placed, which I myself wanted to sign with conviction in the dual need to ensure the full application of the provisions of Decree Clini-Passera No. 79 of 2012 and to give clarity and guarantee to the economic operators of the lagoon. It would be fundamental that some plans and procedures come in some way solicited, so as evidenced own in the motion Dalla Zuanna and integrated ulteriorly in the unified text today to the examination, where one of the most important points remains that of the evaluation of the plans and their comparison and chosen within three months to the aim to find a possible solution in order to guarantee the maintenance to Venice of a competitive cruise terminal to international level. An ulterior element on which to dwell is constituted then from the necessity to revise the schedule defined in the interministerial agreement of 5 November 2013 taking into account the sizing of the passages in the channel of Giudecca, already effectively implemented for 2014, putting into effect all the possible actions in order to safeguard the direct and induced occupation of the port of Venice. The focal point remains focused on the possibility to put into effect all the necessary actions in order to give rapid implementation to the alternative choice to the channel of Giudecca for the passage of the great ships. This is our perspective because the priority remains that to guarantee the fact that Venice can continue to be a crocieristico terminal of first level; of first level, I repeat it! That is why I am announcing the Group's vote in favour. For Italy to the unified text of the G1 agenda (correct text) agreed with the Groups. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u142	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, senators and senators, we have often (and recently also in this House) faced real tragedies which have in some cases involved events on which we have been called upon to take decisions. These are events that have offended our wonderful environmental, cultural and archaeological heritage and misfortunes at sea, or in the vicinity of ports and coasts, as a result of which in this House we have heard that we are the country of the following: when these tragedies take place they rise choirs, they ask questions, they issue sentences, but always after. We have an opportunity, and we have worked in the days and hours that preceded this measure to avoid accusations of retrospect or paralysis. Today we will therefore try to assume responsibilities. We have done so not only by presenting motions but, even more importantly, by working so that from this Chamber we can come a widely united and therefore strong judgment, able to allow us to implement measures, to make choices, to indicate to the Government a path that is not vague, in times that meet the needs, not only in the first place of the citizens of Venice and the lagoon, but also of the operators, the social forces, of those we are convinced must contribute to the protection of the delicate but extraordinary environmental, archaeological, monumental conditions of Venice and its lagoon. It is an extraordinary patrimony of humanity, unique in the world. This represents Venice. We have then told the government, therefore, a clear message - that procedures such as those of the target law must be absolutely excluded. We are not ideologically opposed to the great cruise ships, but we are totally and clearly opposed to inflicting an unbearable weight on the fragile and at the same time wonderful condition of Venice and the lagoon, putting it at the service of interests, these yes, parcelled, even at the cost of seriously altering the equilibrium of the lagoon morphodynamics. Therefore, today we send a strong and clear signal, with the approval by the Senate Assembly of the unitary agenda, which collects the motions presented. This commitment contains three fundamental elements: scientificity, transparency and security. That is what is being asked of the government. There must be no (as proposed by the Government), as the first signatory of the agenda has clearly stated in his speech, neither additions nor cuts to this text, on which the Mixed-SEL Group will vote strongly in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u145	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we in the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group have signed the G1 agenda (correct text) because it is a serious mediation that meets all the demands and needs of the different Senate Groups. In the past, we have tabled various motions and questions on the subject, because that of the great ships in Venice is an issue that does not only involve the city and Veneto. As you know, Veneto is the region with the highest tourist turnout in Italy. Therefore, the problem linked to the great ships that cross the Grand Canal and arrive on the banks of Giudecca, determining also possible accidents, must be evaluated together with another requirement of the city, that is, that of the influx of tourists in the lagoon city. As you know, this is a very important sector of the economy, especially in such a delicate historical moment, where there is a general crisis and where we have long argued that tourism could be a valid way out, driving also for the whole nation, from the economic crisis. We have repeatedly repeated that what is done in the regions of the North, and in Veneto should also be done in other regions, even in the South. We have an envied historical-artistic heritage all over the world, and for it we should be first as a number of tourist tributaries, but unfortunately we are not. I repeat, therefore, that the agenda we are debating covers all the needs of Venice, but it also addresses an environmental problem and the protection of the whole lagoon, as well as the theme of the city's tourist survival. With our favorable vote we try, therefore, to give a very precise indication to the Region and the Municipality, but also to all the other interested agencies, from the Harbour office to those who must push on a valid plan, that it takes into account - as I said before - of all the mentioned requirements. Venice must be preserved, however, and we cannot afford that in one of the most beautiful cities in the world, envied by everyone, a similar incident could happen to the island of Giglio. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u148	WRITER IN TOR (NCD). Madam President, the New Right-Hand Group shares the G1 agenda, which we have taken part in. Venice is a city that has always enjoyed worldwide attention. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u149	I apologize, Senator Dalla Tor, if I interrupt, but I have to ask my colleagues to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u150	WRITER IN TOR (NCD). Therefore, it is important that the utmost attention is paid and that we have come to a sharing of the choice. I believe that the agenda (which will probably be voted unanimously) is a firm point on the part of the Senate, having always come from the special law of 1973 to all subsequent passages, to unanimous votes on such issues. This shows the world's attention, and not only the Senate and the House, to an extraordinary city such as Venice. Today we reaffirm an important fact: we eliminate from the historical center of the city, from the canal of Giudecca, the transit of the great ships and the ferries, that is the transit of a potential danger and aesthetic disturbance to the safety and the fragility of the city. The found solution, introduced from the Veneto Region and from the harbour Authority, with the hypothesis of the widening and the remodulation of the Contorta channel, in order to make transit the ships from cruise outside from the city of Venice in order to arrive to the Marine station, I believe is the main one on which we must move. (at 12.21 a.m.) (Followed by the TOR). All economic categories, from Confindustria to Coldiretti, as well as social groups and trade unions, converge on this subject with an agenda. Some work has been done on this and the sharing has been almost total. We have little time to get to your solution. In the next two-three years you will go (as it was first quoted from the Undersecretary) to the definition of fact of the new organization of the portualità. From the month of May will be active the new terminal of the Motorways of the sea (should leave formally, according to the decree Clini-Passera, on date 5 April, but I believe you will have to slip of a month). In any case, in fact about 200 ferries, so far passed through the canal of Giudecca, will no longer pass you and will move through the canal of the Oils, the so-called mouth of Malamocco, to go to the new port. The choice has already been financed by the State with 100 million made available in the law of stability of 2013 for the new port of height, for the part is oil and commercial. This shows how fulfillment is given to the provisions of the special law of 1973: to move all oil traffic out of the lagoon. Then there will be an investment of about 2 billion, with both public and private funding, which I consider important. I hope that the diversion of the traffic of the ships from cruise can find solution to the maximum within two years. The agenda that we will be voting on today sees us sharing a solution that, quickly, responds to the need of Venice to offer the world its visibility and its fabulous history and, at the same time, to give guarantees of security compared to its vulnerability. If we quickly, with this sharing and with this comparison of the two or three existing projects, between the public and the private ones, arrived at the solution, Venice, Veneto and Italy would get a positive response. Once the project has been decided, and compared with the scientific, economic data and with the evaluations that consequently exist, the Government, as has already been done, through the resolution of the Regional Council of December 2013 (which calls for the inclusion of the project among the strategic works provided for by the objective law), must proceed quickly to the realization in short time of the works. This further comparison was a positive signal that was given to the city. Therefore, the Group of the New Right Centro will vote in favour of this agenda, which continues to safeguard our beautiful city of Venice. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u153	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, the 5 Star Movement is made up of citizens lent to politics, who also want to preserve a new vision in Parliament, while free from ideological and preconceived positions and hands free from biased interests. The lagoon of Venice is a fragile and wonderful environment, which brings to the cradle the most beautiful city in the world. For this reason it is also the most protected environment in the world, protected by UNESCO and protected by special legislation of the Italian State. The citizen has clearly that the great ships, like floating skyscrapers, are not eligible in the lagoon of Venice. It is equally clear that today we must protect an economic sector and the people who are employed in it. It is clear that, after the disasters caused by the oil canal, no other canals can be dug. Besides, the law forbids it. He made it clear that we cannot spend today on pharaonic and harmful works, when compatible alternatives exist. The citizen has clear that the international treaties require that the population be consulted on the works affecting the environment and health. Well, in a meeting at Palazzo Chigi decisions have been made in the opposite direction: the excavation of a channel of 5 kilometers, 140 meters wide and deep 10, of the cost of 170 million euros, only to continue to carry the ships from cruise to near the historical center, knowing well that the main source of pollution in Venice are precisely the ships from cruise. The municipalities of the lagoon gutter were not invited to this meeting, nor was the Venice Safeguards Commission, established by the special law. On the other hand, two political sponsors of projects were present as decision-makers (therefore in clear conflict of interest). The minister Lupi, later, took action to trace a preferential lane to the two projects, first one and then the other, connected together with a relay, while it seemed insufficient the assumption of responsibility of the minister of the environment, the territory and the sea Orlando, and even absent that of the minister of cultural heritage Bray. Faced with this, the citizens of Venice expressed in many ways their opposition, even recently, in a public meeting in Venice. With this in mind, we, citizens in the Senate, wanted to raise our shields, proposing an act of direction, with a complete text of all the commitments that we considered necessary. We have also found a good harmony with other political forces, it has to be said. But it wasn't enough. There has been a real risk that this convergence could falter and, because of the many interests at stake, cases already seen could eventually come back and could lack the support that seemed logical to expect. There was therefore a need for a common text. Then we have been able to change our approach and, starting from a basic text, aim to introduce qualifying elements for the common good. Let's see them: avoid the incorporation into law objective of any project adopted openly and the consequent reduction of strategic environmental assessments and environmental impact assessments in a simplified form. Put all proposals on an equal footing, so that they are evaluated in advance, regardless of the degree of design definition. Recover at the center of comparative evaluation the design conditions so far forgotten: 1) compatibility and environmental impact; 2) rapid execution; 3) Graduality and reversibility; 4) impact on the economy in the transitional phase; 5) costs of the work; 6) long-term economic and environmental sustainability; 7) compliance with the regulations in force (uncounted, but necessary). Finally, the final qualifying point is the involvement, in the evaluation phase, of the Venice safeguard commission established by the special law for Venice, which guarantees a pluralistic process and participated. That is what we have achieved. In our view, this agenda restores the correct conceptual and procedural order, and we will therefore vote in favour, convinced that our presence in control of the implementation of this commitment will still have to continue in the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u154	I greet, on behalf of the entire Senate Assembly, the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education G. Piazzi-C. Lena Perpenti of Sondrio, who are following our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u157	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this essentially united agenda is first and foremost an exercise of common sense, an exercise which, unfortunately, the institutions have not always shown themselves to be able to carry out. Since the beginning, with the original presentation of our motion, Forza Italia has faced the delicate question of the crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice with the awareness of having to combine the respect of the places with the respect of the people who in those places live, operate and work. We have therefore placed ourselves in critical way towards the temptations times to face the question of the crocieristico traffic in the port of Venice only on the wake of pseudo-environmental appraisals, like moreover we have always considered that we cannot act on the emotional wave of single cases of chronicle (whose truthfulness and effectiveness are among other things to the screening of the judicial authority), when the economic future, the occupational future, the social future of a city and an entire productive basin is in ballo. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group has supported its motion with conviction, as well as with conviction will vote for this shared solution, which considers a good and just synthesis between the environmental needs (I mean the real ones) and the safeguard of hundreds of medium-sized and small enterprises and thousands of workers. Not doing so would have meant not taking into consideration the reasons for sustainable development, able to combine the protection of our historical-artistic heritage with the needs of tourism-cultural enhancement and enjoyment. The economic data relative to the crocieristico tourism to Venice and its repercussions on the territory are already mentioned in the course of the discussion that has been carried out yesterday in this House. Here I want to remember some for their objectivity and relevance: 4.255 employees occupied for a total aggregate expenditure of beyond 430 million euros; almost 1.800.000 crocieristi the year, that they represent in this within the third place in Europe (after Civitavecchia and Barcelona) and the absolute primacy like home port (terminal port). I could add a lot more to these. I will confine myself to the most striking ones. In the decade 2002-2012, the number of crocieristi to Venice is increased on average of 13.1 percent every year, with a trend that, albeit contained, will remain positive also for the next three years. The port of Venice has therefore become strategic for the entire European crocieristico section: the 89 percent of all the increment of the passengers recorded in the last decade is attributable to such type of traffic. This characteristic determines a demand for local goods and services certainly greater than that one would have if the ships were limited to transiting in the Venetian port. The development of the Venetian crocieristica is essentially attributable own to the increase of the relative traffic to ships of tonnage superior to the 40.000 tons. In 2012, 93.6 percent of passengers arrived in the city on this type of ship. Local value added represents 3,26 percent of the GDP of the City of Venice and 0,96 percent of that of the Province. The occupation represents 4.1 percent of the total employed of the City of Venice and 1.19% of those of the entire Province. The investments made in these years on the port of Venice represent a fact that the ruling classes have the obligation to keep well in mind when talking about building alternative scenarios. Over the last decade, a future for tourism in this area has been built with great sacrifices. Throwing everything away would have been frankly criminal. On such an articulated and complex theme, for the obvious and irreplaceable repercussions just mentioned, we cannot therefore demagogy and we must identify the best possible solutions net of any desire for degrowth or current temptations to exploit, for it is not well known what pseudo-environmental interest, the current situation in order to pursue models of absolute cultural backwardness. The result of these settings would have been certain: a real economic disaster. It is not by chance that in these days the representatives of the world of enterprise and work of the Province of Venice, in a statement - also in this joint case - have launched an appeal to all the political forces that goes in the direction proposed by us from the beginning and warns against the risks associated with the adoption of improvised choices. An appeal signed by the Venetian representatives of Confindustria, Confcommercio, Coldiretti, Confesercenti, Cna, Confartigianato, Cgil, Cisl, Uil and Chamber of Commerce. Not listening to them would have meant completely ignoring the economic and productive reality of the territory. The role in crocieristico within the port of Venice, as I have already evidenced citing data and consolidated tourist flows in the last decade, is that of a real hub passengers of the Mediterranean. A reduction of this role could not fail to have direct repercussions on all the other landing places, starting with those that insist on the Adriatic, opening the doors to our foreign competitors, ready to make golden bridges to the shipping companies to take the place of Venice. So it is not just Venice or Veneto, but the whole Mediterranean basin; what, for example, would have been the consequences for Bari? It is said that the tourist value of the lagoon city is such that it could hardly be replaced without a loss of attraction of the individual offers on the market. This is out of the question, but also only to lose - in a medium-term perspective - the role of hub, in order to find himself perhaps in a few years to make the deal with a simple Venice destination of passage for the cruises in the Mediterranean, would mean to reduce for infinite times the economic and occupational returns and, at the same time, to frustrate the efforts and the investments carried out in these years. It is therefore necessary, by all political forces, as well as by all social and economic organizations, to make far-sighted choices, able to ensure a true development of tourism - and cultural tourism in particular - in order to place the incomparable Venetian historical, artistic and cultural heritage at the center of development not only in the coming years, but in the coming decades. That is why we are convinced that the text that we will be voting on shortly is a strong signal and a direct stimulus to the Government to intervene with judgment and effectiveness, inspired by that common sense that has been affirmed in this House and demonstrating that our institutions are still able to speak to the country, understand its needs and provide concrete answers. Speaking of culture, tourism, our universal heritage as strategic resources for our economy - and Venice is a clear example of this - imposes a responsibility towards every possible virtuous solution of development. On the contrary, an irreparable disaster would have taken place against a vital productive reality, demonstrating once again to the Italians that not only can we not overcome the current economic crisis, but it is even aggravated by suicide measures. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u160	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Senator Alberti Casellati is right. These are very important and sensitive issues. I take the floor, after a very busy sitting, also to mark our duty to carry out the work of the House according to our timetable. I also do so with a particular difficulty, despite having dedicated years of attention to the problems of Venice. Venice, in fact, is a very difficult, delicate subject that generates passions, but that must be treated with competence, without separating the problems of physical protection from the social ones of employment and work, keeping together its cultural identity and economic-productive development. Everything is held in Venice, and talking about it superficially is very risky. Today, however, I speak on a specific issue, decisive not only for an important branch of the Venetian economy but also to define, more generally, the addresses of the interventions in the lagoon. In the last years the Venetian tourism has seen to assert itself the use of great and great ships from cruise that daily reach the Marittima passing from the basin of San Marco. This maneuver has been highly contested because of its strong impact on the fragile historic center of Venice and also, according to many, for the possible risks it entails. Today the Senate discusses this problem and how a sustainable solution should be found. Most of the risks, even serious, that runs Venice are not only the consequence of the natural events to which the city is very exposed, but of wrong decisions of man, of our imprudences and of our darings in the last seventy years. Not everyone knows the quality of hydraulic interventions and construction techniques that marked the birth of Venice and have determined over the centuries not only that extraordinary form urbis that makes it so wonderful and unique, but also the conditions propitious for its economic fortune and its cultural and artistic glory. Equally not everyone knows that its physical survival is due almost exclusively to a defensive belt made of canals, barns and slums that form a very fragile lagoon grid of 600 square kilometers. [[Brusio.]] I would like at least to ask colleagues who have sat close to me to make a little silence, because it is impossible to do the intervention. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u161	Colleagues, we are closing the debate, the morning was intense. It seems to me that the subject deserves attention from all the groups, Senator Zanda, not just from those closest to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u162	Yeah, but at least they did. Venice is an exceptional case, indeed unique in the world, of urban jewel built in extreme conditions, where the bricks of the bell towers, the marbles of the palaces, the lead that covers the domes, the brackish water of the calluses contribute to the perfection and beauty of the overall picture. Even in this splendor, Venice, placed there in the midst of the water, could never have lasted so many centuries without the defense of that delicate hydraulic-environmental balance of that mixture of water and earth that is the lagoon fabric. Two priorities must therefore be considered in the search for a balanced solution to the problem of large ships: the protection of the lagoon and the prospects for the economic and employment system of the city. Conciliating these two objectives, so radically interconnected, has been the first often unsolved problem in Venice for many decades. For more than a millennium, the Republic of Venice has prospered through continuous transformations on the lagoon and the city, and has always done so with great skill and foresight, protecting them both from human abuse and from the unpredictability of natural events. And the same Napoleonic and Austrian dominations, in imposing their mark on Venice, have never dared to intervene on the balance of the lagoon, fearing the consequences of structural changes or even only morphological alterations. It is from the second half of the last century that the conscious and unconscious action of man has put at risk the survival of Venice, so much to suggest today great precaution before intervening on the equilibrium of the ecosystem; a fragile ecosystem, on which for many decades the consequences of the pollution of the waters, the dizzying increase of the wave motion due to the excess of the traffic of the boats, the negative effects of an economy that now revolves only around the tourist monoculture and a remnant of public employment. It is no coincidence that Venice has gone from the 100,000 inhabitants of the 1950s to the present 58,000. But the deepest changes in the balance of the ecosystem are mainly the result of the two interventions intended in the middle of the last century to support the Venetian economy and industry, without the moment in which the upheavals that would have resulted in the lagoon were predictable. I'm talking about the removal of the waters from the subsoil of Venice and the excavation of the oil canal. In the 1950s the emigration of the waters served the Marghera industry and thus to create wealth, employment and social peace. It would never have been imagined that the deep slopes would yield, determining the lowering of the city of as much as 12 cm, today decisive for the increase of the tips of the high tide and for the strong intensification of its frequency, with high costs in terms of increased risk for the urban fabric, of discomfort for the citizens, of lack of development and of strong public investments necessary for the works of safeguard. The oil canal was instead realized in the sixties, in order to allow the ships and the oil tankers of great tonnage to arrive to Marghera entering the lagoon from the mouth of Malamocco. An imposing work that led to the excavation of the canal up to 17 meters deep and 200 meters wide. The effects of this work were as unpredictable as they were terrible for the equilibrium of the ecosystem: profound alterations in the relationship between the seabed and the slums, changes in the inner currents of the lagoon, disruption of the hydraulic regime of the central lagoon and movement of the watershed line towards Venice, increase in the height of the waves caused by the wind in a central lagoon that due to erosion due to the new transversal currents tends to flatten. And for those who do not have practice of lagoons, I add that a lagoon is characterized precisely by the low depth and the morphological variety of the seabed: strong transversal currents can modify its profile to make it more similar to a large flat lake, and it is evident that a flat lagoon would no longer be able to defend Venice. Today it is forbidden to remove the waters from the subsoil of Venice and its surroundings; it should also be afraid to dig new channels so deep and so wide that it changes the currents. This is today the state of the art, this is the context in which those who have the authority must decide which project is able to guarantee Venetian tourism without causing particular alterations to the lagoon ecosystem. I will not enter into the evaluation of the various projects in the field, the technical nature of which cannot and must not fall within the competence of Parliament: it marks a risk and a necessity. The risk is anticipated in a recent document of the Venetian Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts, alarmed for the possible repetition of the experience of the oil channel with the known consequences on the currents, the seabed and the slums. The necessity is that the different planning ideas for the navigation of the great ships from cruise do not provide sacrifices for the occupational levels and are all subjected to an urgent assessment of environmental impact, all with the same degree of technical deepening, so as to render real and transparent their confrontation. This is the content of the unitary agenda, in favour of which the Senators of the Democratic Party Group will vote. A device that poses a serious need, because no nation of the world, having to operate on a precious fabric like Venice, would neglect these cautions. I shall conclude with a political point of view. The economic, cultural and social physical protection of Venice is vital for the city and the world, but this objective would lose sense if the different interventions did not take into account the interpenetration between the city and the lagoon, if those who protect the lagoon did not take care of the occupation, if those who push towards development did not notice the cultural degradation. Most of the imbalances in the Venetian ecosystem are a direct effect of the choices made between the late 1940s and the 1960s. They were other times and lacked the tools to predict the consequences, in the medium and long time, of decisions that then appeared in Italy, indeed were far-sighted. When in Venice the water was emunged from the slopes and the oil canal was dug, in Mantua, in Cremona, in Moncalieri, in Falconara Marittima, in Livorno, in Macchiareddu, San Rocco and Ravenna were found refineries; in Taranto and in Bagnoli large iron and steel centers were born; in Milan, Ferrara, Mantova, Assisi and Porto Empedocle, as well as in Brindisi, important chemical plants. I remember it not in order to question those choices, on which much of the post-war boom has been based, which have favored so much occupation and have made Italy the seventh industrial power of the world. I remember those years in an attempt to better understand how the world has changed, and that Italy in 2014 cannot afford to underestimate the risks it knows. Today we have all the tools to predict what the consequences of our actions will be over time, and this greatly increases our responsibility. Owning the tools necessary to avoid risks and not using them would be a political error and an entrepreneurial nonsense. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u163	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (correct text), on which the Government has requested some amendments which have not been accepted by the authors. On the original text, the Government returned to the Assembly. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1 (correct text) presented by Senator Casson and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u164	The agenda provided for discussion of draft law No 1213: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 149 of 28 December 2013, abolishing direct public funding, provisions for the transparency and democracy of parties and rules for voluntary contribution and indirect contribution in their favour". I imagine that President Finocchiaro intends to report to the House on the progress of the Commission's work you have chaired.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u165	Mr President, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will proceed today, from 2 p.m. at the sitting already scheduled, to examine the amendments to the measure. The opinion of the 5th Economic Programming Committee, which was received this morning, has already been notified to the Commission and will be completed, however, since the amendments relating to four articles of the text are still excluded. As a result, there is no way that the measure will be dealt with today. The Commission's intention is to complete the examination of the amendments by today and therefore to make the text available to the House from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what President Finocchiaro has said, the discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the financing of parties is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u169	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, a few days ago, at the age of 54, Giorgio Stracquadanio, who was a member of the Senate in the 15th legislature, was missing. A friend for many of us, a colleague for all of us, a man who has never left indifferent with his speeches, lover of harsh confrontation, also of provocation, but certainly a man who made a contribution to the work of the institutions precisely with his ideas, just when they were uncomfortable, just when they were provocative. He has worked with particular competence on many themes that have seen him protagonist in his political commitment, which has lasted practically all his life: first in the Radical Party, then in Forza Italia, in the People of Freedom, from which he had recently come out, adhering - if I am not mistaken - to Civic Choice; but always with his honesty, with his willingness to put himself in the game and to go against so many oppositions and attacks, that even in the days following his death - that most of us have come suddenly - have not abandoned him. I think it is important to remember this in this House that you have only attended for two years. But throughout his political history there has always been the same commitment: an example of what it means to be parliamentary. We are not born parliamentarians: we usually arrive in these classrooms after a long commitment, after taking risks, at least for his own reputation, after having exposed himself for years with his own ideas. I think we owe him gratitude for the work he has done, both when we shared it and when we did not share his ideas. I think it is nice to remember him here in this House, to whom he has always been very proud to belong, and to which he always held a great deal. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u172	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, Members of the NCD Group also bow to the beautiful memory of Giorgio Stracquadanio drawn by my colleague, Mr Malan. He was a very unlucky man, the way he got sick and quickly disappeared. From the point of view of the political biography, I believe that my colleague Lucio Malan is right: it can be considered in that drift of radical culture, not without the accents of the best liberalism, which enthusiastically participated in the constituent phase of Forza Italia. When some of this group left, Stracquadanio was in Forza Italia, he was in the PdL, he was elected to the Senate in my region, between 2006 and 2008. In the Chamber, in the previous legislature, he had been very vivid in supporting the reasons of the rule of law, against any temptation of an ethical state. Then he had a break-up, with deep respect from both of us, with President Berlusconi. He approached Gianfranco Fini's positions; he approached the positions of the Monti Government; and I believe that precisely with Choice Civics tried to go back to Parliament ten months ago. The result was unfortunate, but this Giorgio Stracquadanio always put it in the account. He was a man who gave more to politics, to passion, to his ideas than a miserable accounting system can record. Hence our most affectionate memory for such an unfortunate friend. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u175	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I was not aware of the illness of Giorgio Stracquadanio, and when I learned of his death I was very impressed. I met him in Parliament but, to tell the truth, I knew him better in our various "third Chambers," which he attended more than me, but in which we have met several times: talk shows, television shows, even nights, even those of the early morning. I'm talking about him, of course, not me. We have often made duets also very funny and very interesting. He was so facetious, he had such an extrovert temperament and had the habit of intervening continuously. I'm more compassionate than he is, so I think we're a contrast that's also visible. I must say that his disappearance is for me - and I think for all those who have known him - a human pain, beyond politics. We must rediscover this dimension, which must always coexist with the different political positions, even if we often forget it. It is a bad sign when political conflicts make people lose sight of the need to continue to be colleagues and friends. I think that Giorgio Stracquadanio, at this moment, deserves a memory, not only coming from his political side, for his merits and his militancy, but also from all of us, for his humanity, for his smile, for his way of expressing himself, even grumpy, but always profoundly human. And that's how I remember it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u178	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the mourning and pain of Mr Stracquadanio's death. It is a very premature death: I still remember him a young person, full of vitality, full of enthusiasm and also of joy. I had the pleasure and the honour of meeting him in the Chamber of Deputies, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by Mr Bruno, with whom we have worked very hard. He had this exuberance as a liberal extremist, who wanted a change and modernization of the country, and he was very committed to this in parliamentary work. We found points of convergence, because we shared this idea of change. and he may have had an irritating way of doing it, but always captivating, never aggressive in negative terms; and so it was possible to work and build something together. Then, at a certain point, precisely because he was an extremist reformist - so I would define him - he felt betrayed by the political project he had joined, and then signed the manifesto of Civic Choice, seeing in that project, to which I myself had joined, a way to decline his ideas in the evolving political framework so fast. So, once again, we found ourselves sharing them, especially with regard to the issue of the modernisation of institutions, of change, of transparency, of meritocracy, which constituted issues that were very dear to him. I also remember when there was a misunderstanding about some of his jokes: he was a person who cared a lot about human respect among his colleagues, and this, I must say, is something that we miss especially today. We see how valuable this quality would be in our daily lives, in the way we relate to each other, beyond the different political positions. I must say that I did not even know that he had been ill - it was a very fast illness - and so this leaves us bewildered and leads us to question how much we should focus on the important things. Even in our work, through mutual respect, we should be able to build and realize. We are so temporary and it is therefore important to leave a constructive trace of our passage into the institutions, as certainly did Giorgio Stracquadanio: we will remember for this reason, associating ourselves obviously with the mourning and mourning of the family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u181	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, it is always difficult to commemorate a person, either because he or she indulges in the redundancy of the praises or, if one wants to be tightened, as is necessary in such a circumstance, one ends up neglecting some essential trait of the person he or she wants to remember. Stracquadanium was exactly what the others said. The word "exuberant" has been used in drawing its character. I believe that all those who firmly believe in their ideas are. Being a strong advocate of one's own ideas is not exuberance: it is the very affirmation of that small truth of which everyone becomes a bearer. He was simply a liberal, and as this category of politicians used the feeling of the one who wants to see the state changed, does not indulge in the theater of politics, he knows that the problems of this nation now reside in the capacity of Parliament and the political forces to radically change its structure, mentality, function and tasks. Everyone refers to liberalism, but few practice it. One day in the Chamber of Deputies I reminded him of a joke that Sergio Ricossa made with Antonio Martino as they climbed the flight's ladder. The one reminded the other that two liberals together must never get on the same plane because if the plane were to fall, the fate of a quarter of all liberals in Italy would deteriorate. I believe that Giorgio Stracquadanio in full title can be counted among the most convinced and purest liberals of thought and I think it is a special honour to remember it here. As for the choices of the last period of his life, the maximum that the Spanish knights used is valid for him: defeat is the destiny of well-born souls. So it will certainly not be the electoral defeat of his last political battle that diminishes in us his esteem and remembrance. I think whoever met him today is more lonely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u184	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too want to say a few words about the figure of Giorgio Stracquadanio. We did not know him as the colleagues with whom he lived and participated more actively and closely, but as a companion, and we appreciated his unusual style. He was a man who could be defined with many names: blood undoubtedly, spontaneous and genuine. They are three qualities that punch with the figure of the politician we know, with the classical figure. He was a person who believed in what he did; so he put all his energy into it. We liked it because he ran away from what was politically correct, he was a man who risked: if he was convinced of one thing he carried it all the way. We've seen him often in these classrooms, but also in front of the cameras say things against the current. It is easier to adapt to the choir; it is more difficult to be consistent with one's own positions even when they are minority. That's how we met him. He was a man who did not love so much the twists of words: he reached the core of the questions and, contrary to what always happens between us, when one tries to escape, not to answer, to leave a glimpse, to get out of the ropes, George faced the opponent and those who had before him with his spontaneity. This is what remains to us of this man for whom we remember him as a companion of the journey with great, great affection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u187	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we associate ourselves with the pain of the disappearance of Giorgio Stracquadanio and with the mourning of the family. I met him personally in the 15th legislature, the short one, which lasted from 2006 to 2008. I listened to the description of many aspects of his personality. I can testify, too, that he was never a obvious person. At that time, he was in opposition and we were in the majority, and so everyone had to remain in their role. In fact, he was a senator who never renounced his freedom of thought, because he always said what he thought, even uncomfortable truths. For the truth, I did not follow the evolution of his relationship with the PdL, but I noted and took note of his passage that then led him to apply for Civic Choice. I must stress that that choice did not surprise me simply because this was an aspect of his idea of politics, that is to continue to build a coherent path, from his point of view, with his liberal and radical culture. Precisely from the words of Senator Malan we understand how, beyond his political choices and his paths, he had always maintained in these years, consistently, a relationship with his previous party, the PdL. This shows that his vision of politics was linked to the discussion of ideas, of paths, and not to party intruders. So we like to remember that too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u188	I thank all my colleagues for their speeches. Of course, the Presidency is also associated with the memory of Giorgio Stracquadanio, who has been a member of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic - we all have personal memories of it - for the strength with which he has always carried out his ideas and principles, even before the parliamentary commitment, supporting liberal principles, engaged in many referendum campaigns. Each, militant on the same side or political opponent, has personal memories of the passion and determination with which he represented his ideas. Personally, I remember that when he made different choices, I had the opportunity to speak to him, but he followed his conviction, obviously without any personal gain. Successive events have shown that he did not benefit from it, but he followed his thought at that time. We all respected him, even those who had urged him to go another way. Once again, thanking all the senators who have spoken, the Presidency supports the memory of Mr Giorgio Stracquadanio.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u191	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the Senate Assembly to the latest UN report on serious violations of the rights of children and adolescents in Syria. These are not new figures, but they are the most recent ones, as a result of the disappointing results of the Geneva 2 negotiations, the results of which have been very poor. A besieged city has been liberated, where only children and women had been isolated for months. We have confirmation of the exploitation of minors by both the government army and the rebels, which makes these children enlisted human shields, spies, messengers, traffickers and therefore subject to kidnapping, prisons and aberrant tortures (not within the details). It's 11,000 minors. In Syrian territory, the scene of war, schools are being bombed. No attention is paid to the situation. If we leave the borders and go to refugee camps, there are 138,000 minors in Lebanon and 291,000 in Jordan. These numbers refer to children who are often orphans, who are not even registered in refugee camps. Even those born are not registered to the registry, so there is no clear idea of how many children are. On the border with Turkey there are 9,000 sentenced to death, of which 3,000 are minor. If we approach our territory, in the last tragedy at sea on 11 October, we are talking about 100 children who were shipwrecked, most of whom were Syrian. The Human Rights Commission, together with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, is monitoring the situation. In 2013 the families with Syrian minors and tenfold unaccompanied minors entered our territory were quadrupled. We are talking about 2,440 children in the family and about 1,200 children in 2013. The trend in 2014 however confirms this trend. The Human Rights Commission - several colleagues are present here with me - with President Luigi Manconi is working hard to monitor the situation and see what strategies to adopt for the reception of these families and minors. The real invitation that I address - this is the purpose of this intervention - is that international bodies and our Government seek the best strategies to put up with this disaster, this aberrant situation of violation of children's rights in Syria. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u194	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of the House an issue which, over the last few days, has given rise to a heated debate, both on the Internet and on various press outlets: the one relating to the extent of a new contribution, as Mr Bray called, on so-called "compenses for private copying". Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 71-f of the Law of 22 April 1941, n. 633, the remuneration is determined and updated on a three-year basis by decree of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, after consulting the Permanent Advisory Committee for Copyright and the most representative trade associations. However, the Minister should take account of the constraints within which the above-mentioned law has delegated to him for the re-determination on a three-year basis of tariffs. It is to be considered, in fact, that this act of secondary standardization must not already redesign the impact on the economic dynamics existing between operators and consumers but only reconstitute, if they have changed because of technological progress, the conditions created at the time of the approval of the primary standard. I would like to point out that these charges, if increased and extended to further categories of technological devices (particularly tablets and smartphones), would cause problems of considerable importance. In the first place, they would end up falling on consumers, burdening them with additional costs for the acquisition of products that, on a presumptive basis only, will be used for the execution of "private copies" of works protected by copyright; secondly, the relapse of these charges on certain types of products, such as hard drives and USB drives, could even be higher than the cost of the good itself. In other words, the new ministerial decree should be defined with a view to a total revenue not exceeding the average achieved in the first two years of operation of the previous decree. To be precise, these total amounts were almost 52 million in Italy in 2010 and 84 million in 2011, and then dropped again in 2012 and 2013. Hence the need for a re-determination of tariffs and product categories. While understanding the difficulties of the cultural industry and the content and the express willingness to provide assistance to these operators and SIAE itself, it must be borne in mind that its own devices such as tablets and new generation telephones are today the technological infrastructure indispensable for the legal dissemination on the network and the development of those same musical and cinematographic sectors. An increase in costs would lead to a possible deterrent effect, affecting both the sales of devices and the same spread of sensitive products as is intended to be protected. Only by acting with measure and balance could the measure not be exposed to disputes and appeals, which would have the immediate effect of confusing consumers and providing a further element of uncertainty - as if there were not enough - to the market.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u197	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday in Portici, in the province of Naples, Villa d'Elboeuf, one of the many eighteenth-century wonders of the Miglio d'Oro, left blameless in the most total carelessness and degradation for countless years, has partly collapsed and ended up on the train tracks on the Naples-Portici route, which is then the oldest in Italy. Fortunately, no train passed at that time. Otherwise, a tragedy could have occurred. The building, of about 4,000 square meters, which dominates the Port of Granatello, ended up at auction in 2009, and only a short time ago it was sold for four million euros to a cordata of entrepreneurs, who were active for the restoration complex. I call on the competent minister, Mr Massimo Bray, to intervene immediately, not only to ensure that there are no other collapses that can then harm the safety of citizens, but also to restore an historical, architectural and cultural heritage. We must not make sure that what we have most dear to our Italy, its history and its culture, fall, just as this wall has fallen. Then mine is just an appeal, a strong, great voice: let's make sure that these historical finds no longer have stones that can fall. Please don't leave us a state that we, of the 5 Star Movement, must rebuild in the rules, institutions and morality. At least the stones of the historical buildings leave them in place and make sure that they don't fall anymore. I appeal to the Presidency to speak decisively to the relevant Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u200	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to call for a response to my signature, 2-00106 and 2-00107, of 23 December 2013 and 2 January 2014, on national strategies for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and guidelines for information that respects LGBT people. These documents start from assumptions that are contrary to the Italian Constitution and the Italian law in force; however, they are issued and disseminated in public administrations by the Government, with the stamp of the Italian Republic, and not as opinions of certain circles. These two documents start from an ideology entirely partisan and extremist and presuppose things that are even prohibited by Italian law, such as the uterus for rent, adoptions for same-sex couples, marriage for same-sex couples and so on. These are respectable opinions - I see here some colleagues who support them - but the Italian Government cannot, as such, support and even impose, in its aspirations, in schools and in the media an ideology in any case, even more so if this ideology has implications which, to date, are contrary to the Constitution and the laws of the State. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u201	Thank you, Senator Malan; we will solicit the Government's response on these important issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u204	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in order to remain in the proceedings, I would like to say that yesterday, during the examination of the decree-law on the Land of Fires, many senators spoke about the extraordinary commissioners for the emergency waste and for the reclamations in Campania, saying that these roles had been covered by the Presidents of the Region. Well, I would like to make it clear in the report that the President of the Campania Regional Council, Mr Caldoro, has never been a Commissioner, either to waste or to the reclamations, unlike his predecessors. Since 2010, therefore, the competences in this field have returned to the Government and the local authorities, and the Campania Region has therefore not, since that date, direct administrative competences but only programming, and has approved in recent years, as Regional Council, all regional plans (the Bonifiche plan, the special waste plan, the urban waste plan and the waste reduction plan). This planning repairs a thirty-year delay in Campania on these topics. So it was necessary to specify for honor and love of truth. I ask that this be specified in the Senate Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u207	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a speech following a fact that happened a few days ago in the province of Varese, with a life sentence that took the flight and a dead man on the ground. This fact has put citizenship in great apprehension and has given rise to reflections, precisely in the days when a provision is still being discussed in the House that will concern new releases. The apprehension, of course, is that the Government's attention is directed not only to the convicts who have to get out of jail, but also to the guards who, with so much effort, carry out their duties and duties. In fact, let's remember that, within the financial system approved for a few days, unfortunately there has not found room for a strengthening instead desired, both in terms of the staff of the prison police, and in economic terms. In fact, within the financial system, a rule of authentic interpretation has been inserted wanted by the Government in order to eliminate the possibility that overtime are recognized as such, substantially obliging the prison guards, in lack of staff, to carry out their duty beyond the time of service, seeing it then recognized simply as working hours. This creates a great disparity, and I believe that it cannot help citizens to trust the institutions, especially when things like what I have been talking about happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-185.ana.u208	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.32 a.m.
