ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.07 a.m. and resumed at 11.29 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u6	Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u9	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I'd beg the senators to take their seats. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u12	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as you know, I have just asked for clarification on the convening of the Commissions. I understand that there are concomitances for which there is a need to meet the different needs, but if this measure is of real importance, as the Government and the friends and colleagues of the majority have said, I think that the Commissions should all be disconcerted anyway. I am sorry, but the first Commission, now told me a colleague, will still be called to continue the hearings. I am a senator assigned to the 1st Commission on a temporary basis, replacing Senator Calderoli: I cannot be left to my personal discernment to choose whether to participate in the general debate in this House or in the work of the Commission. I believe that this must be clarified immediately, because I think that all colleagues have the right to participate in the general discussion in an active way, listening to the reasons of the speakers. So, ma'am, I'm asking you to get the Commissions off the hook.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u13	Senator Volpi, as you know, we said earlier that the work of the Commissions was suspended and that we should come to this House. Now, however, let's take a further look.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u16	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I have asked for the floor because I feel the need, on behalf of all the Senators of the Democratic Party and I also think on behalf of this House, to express a strong word of solidarity with Senator Stefano Esposito. [[Stretch applause. A lot of senators stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u17	I believe that this solidarity on the part of the House was due.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u18	ZANDA (PD). Senator Stefano Esposito has been the subject of an act for which I do not find the right words that can adequately condemn him. To place incendiary devices in front of the door, to follow a parliamentarians, to control their movements, to continually threaten them, to do all this in relation to the political judgements and political expressions of a senator is incompatible not only with our criminal order, but with the very concept of democracy. As long as violence against ideas is practised and, in this way, the circulation of free ideas will also be limited, I think that unfortunately our country will never be truly and fully democratic. In this spirit, I renew the solidarity of myself and the Senators of the Democratic Party with Senator Stefano Esposito. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u21	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Madam President, I join with Senator Zanda's words of solidarity and closeness to my colleague Stefano Esposito. The criminal and terrorist escalation we have witnessed leads us to share the personal and family concerns expressed by the senator, but I think it must lead us all to demand a reaction from the institutions and the state also to avoid the idea that yesterday was understood in the words of Senator Stefano Esposito, that at some point intimidation - and it is understandable - has the upper hand. This I believe would be a defeat for the State and the institutions to be avoided with our closeness (the choral applause of solidarity I think is important) and with a reaction from the security and investigative forces, because one should never accept the surrender of a free person in the face of terrorist intimidation. [[Applause from Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u24	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too wish to express my solidarity with Senator Stefano Esposito. We work in the same Commission and, recently, we went to the TAV site. On that occasion I saw how Senator Esposito is forced to move in his territory: a thousand difficulties, with the escort and many worries. He continues, however, to do his job. I would like to add to what my fellow Members, Mr Zanda and Mr Della Vedova, have said to Senator Esposito: I have read some of his statements, in which he says that he will leave politics because he has three children, of whom the last one was born a few weeks ago. I would urge him, on the other hand, to continue working in the field of politics, because if he did not do so, it would be a victory for those who are putting him in great difficulty. In addition to solidarity, I therefore ask the Senate to address to Senator Esposito an invitation to remain political with all of us, despite the diversity of opinions that there is certainly between me and him; an invitation therefore to remain political, not to be overwhelmed by certain criminals who do not deserve surrender. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u25	I address the senate's greeting to the State Media School "Augusto Vera" in Amelia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u28	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of myself and my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, I would like to express in this House all the discomfort and feeling of impotence in continuing to learn about intimidating acts, with immediate and consequent exploitations, which have become practices. All intimidation is to be condemned, regardless of who receives it; it is the case that involved Senator Esposito, who is absolutely no exception. History has taught us that the strategies of tension have different sources than those that come to art made to appear. We therefore call on all of us not to draw hasty and often untidy conclusions from what really happened. Let it be an example for everyone of the Musi case, which was hastily attributed, even by a colleague, to the No TAV movement: this immediately proved to be unfounded. As always, we urge the investigative judiciary to carry out investigations at three hundred sixty degrees, as well indicated in our Constitution and not to get involved, even unconsciously, in a business environment that has already largely influenced and manipulated local politics, as demonstrated by the judgment on the so-called Minotaur case. The people of Valsusina have been carrying out for years, with strong determination, peaceful and popular, the opposition to a useless, costly and devastating work for public finances and the environment and will continue in the wake of this peaceful and determined struggle. That certainly doesn't help. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u31	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, I naturally agree with my fellow Members, Mr Zanda, Mr Matteoli and Mr Della Vedova, about the solidarity that we must express to Senator Stefano Esposito and the invitation that we must ask him to continue his political battle despite the intimidation he has suffered. I have also had the opportunity, in my not short political experience, to know something more than an intimidation near me. Our national story is, in fact, often marked by recurrent phenomena of political violence that have often turned into terrorism and the most heinous acts that this has been able to produce. There is an obvious Italian anomaly: no Western country has experienced such a long period of recurring political violence according to a sequence that often, without any continuity, has led from verbal violence to the most bloody acts, without obviously having to establish a direct link between the first and the last link of this chain. Italy, however, unlike other countries, appears particularly exposed to this. This must recall the role of the institutions, as has been said, their intelligence, their ability to prevent and repress, but also a role of politics that must be able to distinguish legitimate and peaceful dissent in regard to any subject of our public dimension from acts to which no tolerance or any satisfaction is allowed. We need to isolate those behaviors. I think one way to defeat them is to carry out that work, to prove that democracy is ruler and can translate its own will into action. It is also necessary for those who do not share that work to the full all violent behavior, even what may initially be in the sign only of verbal violence, but which preludes to a much more dangerous drift. Senator Zanda's initiative was appropriate not only for the solidarity that we owe to Senator Esposito, but for the common awareness of how much we must commit ourselves to this symbolic work to proceed and to that the violent actions that have developed around it are, as it must be, opposed to the end and to that every violent behavior, even only verbal, is politically isolated. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u34	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, on behalf of the North League, I can only express my solidarity with my colleague Stefano Esposito, whose determination and capacity we were able to appreciate in the previous parliamentary term in the House. We believe that yesterday we really crossed the line, because in full democracy, in this House and on all occasions, it is okay to assert your ideas against them firmly and firmly, but here we have really passed the mark. This is intolerable. I want to remind you that we are talking about a work that has been decided not because someone woke up in the morning and did not know what to do. This work, in full democracy and in compliance with all the rules and laws, is proceeding and following its process both at the design and at the operational level. It is unacceptable that this should happen. I have listened carefully to Mr Scibona's words as well. I would like to make one point. I don't think it's rushy considerations to say that Molotov bombs have nothing to do with our country and this work. From this point of view, we are calling for a reflection. We have a strong political responsibility; we must exercise it in the heart of our convictions, but getting to these points is intolerable. Mr Stefano Esposito - I said at the beginning of the speech - was able to appreciate the skills and determination to want this work in full democracy. Someone's out of democracy. We therefore invite the Government to intervene immediately and colleagues who disagree with this work to call themselves out and not to stand by people who have nothing to do with democracy, this country and its institutions. This is crucial. We therefore express full solidarity and an invitation to the Government to intervene firmly and decisively. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u37	Olivero (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Italy has also expressed solidarity with Mr Stefano Esposito, and also the emphasis on the non-formal need, today and in the weeks to come, to jointly express cohesion without whether or not we are dealing with the issue we are dealing with today. I am referring to the need to allow everyone to freely express their opinions and to be able to make their political battles within the House and within the country, without ever having to be afraid for themselves, for their children and for their loved ones. I believe that Turin and Piedmont do not want to fall back into the dark times that we met between the seventies and eighties, and I believe that for this reason it is necessary that politics and also civil society - together - are compact, as they were then, in rejecting intimidation and violence. I think it's up to us all to have a greater responsibility right now. In asking - and I must say that we do so with great respect and great concern - our colleague Stefano Esposito to continue his work, we must concretely assure him of our attention, our closeness and our attestation of will to continue at his side in giving the possibility of freedom of expression in all circumstances to those who fight for their ideas and who freely act to assert them within society. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Della Vedova. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u38	In view of the buzz, I would ask colleagues who do not want to listen to us leave the Chamber, out of respect for those who have to speak (although it would be better to stay inside and listen).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u41	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I fully support my colleague Senator Stefano Esposito and I also know, knowing his passion and political determination, that he will not give in to intimidation. Senator Esposito must know that we are at his side, sympathetic to him politically and personally. Unfortunately, our country has not completely crossed its democratic port: too many acts, both small and large, of verbal and material violence remain, as there are still intimidations in the squares, even on the virtual square that is the network. We have experienced heavy seasons and we would not want to go back to those fringes. All too often it happens that verbal violence and incitement hide behaviors that have other purposes: to prevent the exercise of a fundamental function for a democratic country. A political exercise in these terms is unacceptable. We expect - therefore - a clear and explicit distance from the movements No TAV because their silence or their stutter represent a point of dangerous connivance, regardless of concrete behavior. From this point of view, the past seasons have taught us one thing: that either we speak clearly immediately (and unfortunately we are late), or otherwise the consequences can be heavy. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senators Malan and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u44	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to express my firmest condemnation of the very serious events that have happened recently, which have also been preceded by other events, and of the most complete solidarity with Senator Stefano Esposito. I think I am saying things that can serve to give a strong signal to those who, individual subjects or in association, think, in their delirium of violence, of being able to determine through their criminal actions a modification of relationships, acts, initiatives involving not only political forces, but many women and men, citizens who, on the events that barbarically and violently try to force, can "make politics." In fact, these forces, these subjects, always have a twofold objective: that of personally striking exponents and that of determining in our country a lowering of the level of democracy, a climate of persecution and criminalization of the issues of confrontation on the issues of which instead democracy feeds. We feel therefore a double responsibility, we who in recent days in the Commission of merit, together with Senator Stefano Esposito, have reiterated all our criticality on the TAV; a criticality that we think to assert in order to reach a result that for us must be opposed to the determinations to which our State is coming. In other words, we hope that democracy will be put in place and that the reasons we think are good, which so many women and men bring, not only in the territories directly involved, but also at the general level. We know instead that these forces have always determined the opposite result, so they should not only be generically condemned. We must also put in place acts that enable us to protect the absolute security of those who are in the field of confrontation, starting with Stefano Esposito, and to determine a democratic debate on these issues, ensuring that it is not abused. We remember other seasons where the lowering of the level of democracy has caused a formidable blow to democratic achievements and also to the issues of merit, to the issues that were addressed and that at that point entered a shadow cone. We, as a force of opposition, in the merit of our criticalities and our dissent, are committed to not allowing it absolutely, as we did immediately expressing a position of solidarity and addressing a great hug to Stefano Esposito. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u47	FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Madam President, on behalf of the Government, I too wish to express my solidarity with Senator Stefano Esposito. Whoever has spoken better than me has been able to outline and indicate not only our discomfort, but also the importance of this gesture of solidarity at a difficult time. In expressing strong solidarity with Senator Esposito, I would like to stress that today, at a time when politics is in difficulty, we must demand his role so that citizens understand how complex the commitment of those who are in politics and are fighting on the ground, who can think of it in one way or another. In fact, when we talk about politics and decide whether to carry out a work or a programme it is right that there should be a confrontation, a dialogue between institutions, with associations and with citizens; but we must also demand the role of politics, highlighting not only the importance but also the delicacy of the citizens. This means engaging, having responsibility and confronting each other and Senator Esposito has done it in a serious and correct way, carrying out his own opinions. It is right to confront each other, but in the same way it is necessary to ensure security and the adoption of decisions, because politics also means deciding, acting and moving forward with respect for all. Mine really wants to be an invitation to Senator Esposito to move forward with great professionalism and seriousness as he has done up to this moment. The government is close to him and his family, aware of a discomfort that is strong and that worries, because when security is lacking and fear is transmitted there is no positive message, even more so when it comes to those who are engaged. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u48	The presidency of the Senate, in condemning violence in a clear and precise way, in addition to expressing solidarity with Senator Esposito addresses an explicit invitation to the senator not to abandon his political responsibility. At the same time, it commits all the institutions of the State responsible for allowing the free exercise in security and democracy of Senator Esposito's activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 925, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Ferranti and others, Costa, 110, 111, 113 and 666. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u50	Madam President, I hope that the voice will allow me to supplement the written report. Very briefly, I would like to point out to my colleagues that the draft law that we are beginning to examine is certainly an important first stone that is inserted into the system - one could therefore define systematic - in order to try to overcome the problems and tensions determined, on the one hand, by a procedural system that works badly and, on the other hand, by a shameful prison situation. The subject is widely heard by all the political forces present in Parliament, so much so that in the examination of the Senate Justice Commission there were several draft laws that helped to supplement the work done at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, the text of the draft law that we are examining is exactly what came from the Chamber of Deputies as then supplemented by the texts and amendments, in particular the texts of the draft law no. 110, 111, 113 and 666 of fellow senators of various political forces. The structure of the bill that we examine is composed in the following way: first, there is the first part that refers to non-convict prison sentences, as the provision arrived to us from the Chamber of Deputies, with a delegation to the Government to be carried out within 18 months. This first part has been supplemented and partly modified by the work of the Senate Justice Commission, so much so that we speak about this part of a reform of the system of penalties, with a leap, so to speak, of cultural and civil quality, because, as far as the main penalties provided by our legal system from the criminal point of view are concerned, it is now said explicitly that they are: life sentence, imprisonment, house imprisonment, house arrest, fine and fine, with diversified characterizations that we will see during the examination. Moreover, for the offences for which the penalty of arrest or imprisonment is provided for not exceeding three years, the Government is delegated to provide that the penalty is in any case that of house imprisonment or house arrest, while for the crimes for which imprisonment is foreseen between three and five years the Government is delegated to provide that the judge, taking into account the criteria already indicated in the penal code (Article 133) may apply the house imprisonment. The second part of this bill refers to Article 2 in particular to a reform of the system of penalties. Specifically, draft laws were recovered which were among the acts of the Senate Justice Commission and which concerned decriminalization. These matters, as examined and amended in the Commission, now complement the proposed Article 2. In particular, although in summary, I recall that this reform of the sanctioning rules is inspired by the principles and criteria first of all to transform into administrative offences in the first place all the offences for which the penalty or fine is the only penalty, with the exception of certain specific matters, including, for example, the environmental one, the building one, the one of health in the workplace and other matters that are indicated. Secondly, it is planned to turn a number of criminal offences under the penal code into administrative offences which do not raise a social alarm. Thirdly, it is planned to turn the infringements punished with the alternative penalty of arrest or fine into administrative offences, according to certain indications of special laws that are mentioned in the text at our examination. Fourthly, it is laid down that appropriate and proportionate penalties shall be provided for offences which are transformed into administrative offences in accordance with the seriousness of the infringement, the recurrence, the work carried out by the staff member for the elimination or mitigation of its consequences. With regard to the other procedural-penalistic legal institutions that have been examined by the Chamber Justice Commission, then by the Chamber Assembly and then by the Senate Justice Commission, it is basically the institution of testing and the institution of imperilability, which is fundamentally transformed. That of testing is an institute that has already existed for years, even within our criminal procedural system, as far as minors are concerned, and it is an institution that in Italy, for this limited part, has given an excellent proof of itself. Similarly, this institute has given excellent self-esteem to adults abroad, particularly in the systems of Anglo-Saxon law, which have been using probation institutions for many decades. In particular, in those systems there is talk of a police or judicial or judicial probation in the trial phase, or of a prison probation, which is the only form of testing that already exists in Italy, and which is foreseen above all with regard to the prison law. Now, even the numbers, which have been given, as far as minors are concerned are certainly positive. In particular, it is noted that the statistics on the outcome of the test show that, having exceeded 80% of the positive cases, it prompts the proposal to Parliament to include an extension of the institute also to the case of adults, although with certain boundaries concerning both admission to the institute and control over how the test is carried out and the outcome. If in the end the outcome is positive, the crime is extinguished. Obviously, in the event of a negative outcome, withdrawal is also envisaged, in particular for certain particularly serious situations. The other institution that I would like to briefly mention is that concerning the imperilability of the accused. We are witnessing both at the stage before the judge of the preliminary hearing and in the debate at a huge dispersion of means, resources, personnel, judiciary and judicial police, which seems to be doing nothing. In fact, in the face of the total absence of the person charged, the judicial machine continues to grind virtually the void, and therefore to produce nothing, but with enormous dispersion of means and resources. Now it is intended, in particular from the final stage of preliminary investigations, to provide for the breakdown of an imperilability, in the sense of arriving at a suspension of that phase before the judge, so that it can be carried out only for the defendants present or who, however, decide to be absent from the debate. Of course, there are forms and means of control which are set out in detail in the text before this House. There are also other rules concerning the prison police and a transitional regime, such as the subject of the debate, but the main institutions are the ones I have mentioned. For more specific issues, the written report is certainly more detailed. I shall conclude this examination by pointing out that a number of amendments have also been tabled at this stage of the debate. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that in the Commission this text submitted to the Senate Chamber has had a very broad consensus, with the cooperation and participation of all the political groups present in the Commission: this in order to give the concrete sign of how all the senators and groups present in the Senate care about the solution of criminal procedural problems, so that the criminal system that works so badly can work. Above all, however, it is time to start taking concrete action on the - I repeat - still shameful prison situation. More than thinking about the situation upstream, it is time to think about the situation downstream: that is, more than thinking about the final phase of those who have already been condemned, it is appropriate to begin, systematically, to limit access to prison only to cases of social danger and those who impose such a measure. For the other cases there are alternative systems, some already included in our procedural order and others that we will try to insert. This will be an important milestone if the Senate House agrees with the work already done, with broad agreement, within the Justice Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, citizens, the draft law that we are called upon to assess today is structured - as is well summarised in the report - into four distinct areas of regulatory intervention. The first area responds to the need, long felt and pointed out by all legal practitioners, without distinctions of role and fronts (magistrates, lawyers, penitentiaries), to widen the range of sanctions breaking the substantial monopoly still present in the structure of the penal code - still in this part that of 1931 - of the personal penalty of infrared detention. It is true, as we know, that since 1975 the law on the reform of the penitentiary system and, to an even greater extent, the so-called Gozzini law of 1986 has been recognized as being able to implement the penalty of providing for alternative measures to detention. However, providing that these different forms can be applied from the outset by the judge of cognition allows objective improvements to be made to the current system in various respects. First, the judge of cognition, having witnessed the formation of evidence in the contradictory of the parties, is certainly closer to the fact and more able to assess the actual disvalue and the way in which it is symptomatic of the social danger of the condemned. Secondly, the direct application by the judge of the conviction of alternative sanctions to detention ends up making the execution of the sentence more rapid, with the advantage of the fundamental principle of certainty of the penalty, given that in the current system the execution remains, in most cases, suspended until the decision of the supervisory court, which can arrive, as often happens, even after years from the passage in court of judgment. Thirdly, it would thus be possible to avoid the entry into the prison circuit of persons over whom it is already reasonable to believe that they would be in a position to be admitted to home detention granted as an alternative to ex post detention by the supervisory court. On the other hand, the anticipation of the moment of individualization of the penalty, or of aspects of it, from the execution phase to that of cognition, constituted a recurring element in the various drafts of reform of the code of criminal procedure that, put in place by the various ministerial commissions successive in time (I remember, in this regard, Grosso, D'Alia, Pisapia and many others), have produced articulated schemes of drafts of delegation law that, for political reasons, have never found a concrete parliamentary outlet, but that all agreed on the urgent and pressing need to differentiate the range of possible criminal sanctions. A second area of intervention, which I have also positively assessed, is the provisions which have included in the structure of criminal proceedings since the preliminary investigations the institute of testing. It is an institute, colleagues, of Anglo-Saxon origin, but it has already had a period of experimentation - as Senator Casson pointed out in his report - in our legal system in the juvenile process. As is well known, this is a mechanism whereby the suspect or the accused may request the judge to suspend the criminal proceedings against him, on condition that he carries out actions aimed at eliminating the harmful or dangerous consequences of the crime, and, where possible, to ensure compensation for the damage caused by the same cause. Of course, especially in relation to this institution, the seriousness and effectiveness with which the external criminal enforcement offices will assess and monitor the development of the probation period is crucial. From this point of view, therefore, the only provision - in my opinion - not entirely adapted to the objectives and purposes of the law is perhaps the so-called financial invariance, contained in Article 15 of the bill. Colleagues, lying about this would be serious. The success of these paths of civilization also depends on the resources that will be engaged on them, perhaps even with a subsequent and separate measure, on the same procedures. Otherwise, if managed in a sloppy and superficial way, they will end up stopping in the presence of the first inevitable cases, perhaps striking, of violation or obvious inconsistency of the tests, which cannot at all resolve in duplicates or "triple" of the conditional suspension of the sentence. Another incisive aspect of the bill is a substantial decriminalisation initiative that involves the transformation into administrative illegality, subject of course to some exceptions, of all the offences for which the penalty is the only penalty and for some crimes of very little social alarm. My opinion on this proposal is broadly in favour, but also in this case it is necessary to maintain, in the continuation of legislative activity, an attitude of consistency and continence, i.e. continuing to estimate the use of the criminal penalty as an extreme ratio, avoiding introducing, as it happens systematically also in areas where it would not be strictly necessary, new cases of crime of which, frankly, there was no need. I think - and these are just examples - of Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 47 of 2010, which has punished as a crime the production of objects made with cat skins or the norms of the legislative decree of 9 January 2012, n. 4, which punish as a crime the transport and transhipment of fish species of less than the minimum size. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish your speech. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. In short, a law is no less important or serious if it is not accompanied by the provision of criminal sanctions for its non-compliance, where it would be possible to establish an administrative penalty system that is equally incisive. Finally, there is one part - and here, Mr President, allow me just one minute - which is more exquisitely procedural, which refers to the reform of the discipline for the conduct of the trial in the event of the defendant's absence or imperilability, the so-called absentia process which, as regulated in Italy, had been the subject of several complaints by the European Court of Justice - the Somogyi and Sejdovic cases are famous - which were not fully overcome even after the successive regulatory interpolations, aimed at a reorganization of the discipline of absentia, carried out by Law No. 479 of 1999 or by Law No. 60 of 2005. The objective of ensuring effective knowledge of the ongoing process has been favoured... PRESIDENT. The minute has passed. Please conclude. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). ...which will in fact be suspended until, following periodic research, the subject of the defendant's availability is somehow clarified. Having said that, in conclusion, my personal judgment on this bill is largely favourable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u53	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the act we are about to vote represents a step forward towards a system of justice based on the certainty and effectiveness of the penalty, but above all on the evolution of the concept of remedial punishment: reparation for the victim, but also for society, with the suspension of the trial with the test and the penalty of unpaid public service work. This institute therefore allows us to overcome the idea of the purely suffering and deprivation of liberty so that it becomes effectively re-educational and aimed at social reintegration, as prescribed by the too often violated Article 27 of the Constitution. The delegation contained in the draft law, providing as the main penalty the detention at home for certain crimes, allows both to graduate the system of penalties, and to avoid the phenomenon of revolving doors for short-term entry into prison, but above all returns to prison the function of extrema ratio for the most serious crimes and of greater social danger. The amendment of the penal code, the decriminalisation of minor offences, the amendments to the criminal procedure code, however, require coordination with the penitentiary law, Law No 354 of 1975, and also with alternative measures to detention, i.e. the sanctions replacing the short prison sentences provided for in Law No 689 of 1981. These measures therefore address the problem of overcrowding which condemns our system to forms of detention comparable to torture for violation of the minimum rights of protection of human dignity, as stated by the European Court of Strasbourg in the well-known Torreggiani judgment and as denounced by operators in the sector, associations, guarantors and anyone who has had the opportunity to verify the state of detention in our 206 prisons. The unsustainability of the situation was also denounced by the President of the Republic himself in his message to the Chambers last October, referring therefore to institutional and political responsibility. The deflated effect is obtained by the bill delegates especially with the institute of suspension of the trial with testing: the positive outcome of the trial, in fact, extinguishes the crime but not the application of the administrative penalties ancillary and guarantees the certainty of the penalty however, providing the suspension of the limitation periods. We believe that the problem of imprisonment, overcrowding and the lack of adequate treatment activities must therefore be tackled by structural reform, system reform measures, organic and coordinated, and that, on the contrary, it cannot be settled as an emergency phenomenon and dealt with by government emergency decrees, nor by mere acts of clemency, indult and amnesty, which cannot be excluded if they are included in a framework of overall planning. With this in mind, it is necessary to intervene on the same protective custody in prison, which this act does not deal with, also to protect the fundamental principle of presumption of innocence if an excessive appeal is made, as official data seem to testify. 40 percent of the more than 64,000 confined in prison are not condemned definitively and on average 17 percent will be released and compensated for having suffered unjust detention. It is therefore appropriate to refer to the principle of favor libertatis, including a more restrictive application of precautionary requirements, as proposed by the same bill No 631 recently passed to the Chamber of Deputies. Because prison favors relapse, because in prison you continue to die, because of illness, depression, suicide: five deaths and two suicides are the cases that have already registered in these first weeks of 2014, suicides of prisoners, but also - it is well to remember - prison police. If the Government, with Decree No 146, chooses to take urgent and extraordinary measures for the controlled reduction of the prison population, it seems to me to have to draw attention to a risk, that is that the special early release favors the indiscriminate exit of every type of convicted person: on the contrary, 38 percent of the prisoners are in prison today for violation of the single text n. 309 of 1990 in the matter of drugs, and therefore it becomes necessary to review the penalties for illegal but minor conduct and to promote rehabilitation and treatment of drug addicts. Finally, and not least, it is necessary to simplify the procedures, administrative and judicial supervision, for access to the benefits because the improvement of the conditions of detention could in fact be significantly achieved in the immediate, without waiting for legislative interventions, reviewing also the operational modalities of management of the detention: from dynamic surveillance to extended sociality; not only therefore spaces, square meters, although vital to the prisoner. In this overall parliamentary debate on the revision of the Italian sanctioning and penitentiary system, ladies and gentlemen, there is, however, a lack of a chapter, that of the professional resources committed in the front line to guarantee security in prisons and social recovery and (here I address in particular to the Government), belonging to the prison police force, understaffed and discriminated against in relation to the laws of the other police forces. The 2010 Prison Plan itself, which is expected to guarantee some 12,000 new posts, will in fact not be able to take off unless the prison police units are implemented accordingly. Then there are the educators and psychologists, even more penalized by the measures of reduction of the public employment, called for a fixed time to perform essential functions for observation and treatment, for the assessment of the eligibility for the benefits of prisons, for the same testing and the assessment of the risk of suicide, because - we have said - in prison you continue to die. We therefore invite the Government to open this dossier, to cut resources from the central apparatus in order to create the concrete conditions of security and re-education in the suburbs, in the penitentiary institutions, in a system of criminal execution that in Italy is still too far from acceptable parameters of civilization. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u55	I invite my colleagues to address a greeting to the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo (General Ferrante Gonzaga) of Eboli, in the province of Salerno. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u56	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to examine yet another measure by which the Government and the majority in this parliamentary term show that they want to insist on objectives which the North League absolutely cannot share. Following what my colleague said earlier, this measure cannot guarantee the principle of certainty of the penalty, but not so much in itself, but in connection with what we are doing - indeed, what you are doing - in these classrooms. We have examined a first decree-law emptycarceri, now we are dealing with this, and already in the House we are considering another provision in this matter. In each of them there are benefits, hypotheses of release, of early release: all interventions that for those who read them and are called to apply them (judicial offices and lawyers) seem to gradually mitigate the rigour of the sentence. I put myself in the shoes of any criminal; he will certainly say that Italy is a fantastic country because sooner or later some escapism, some chance of being freed or of getting benefits will find them. That is why we say that we do not guarantee the certainty of the penalty here, because we can no longer understand what the penalty for each crime is. Let us now look at the essential content of the measure that we are currently examining. In the meantime, we are talking about a renewal of our system of penalties, providing that there is home imprisonment for all crimes punished with imprisonment for up to three years, and that even for crimes punished with imprisonment from three to five years there is the possibility of applying this institution. We are therefore saying that, with regard to the famous stalking crime, which so much did these Aules to be able to introduce it into the order, in the end, the stalker can be placed the house arrests. We can also think of crimes such as theft; perhaps we are not talking about kidnappings, acts of terrorism, but these are also crimes, and crimes must be punished. The house arrests, in our opinion, are not a punitive case, but only a mitigation of what should be a punishment. We think that it is even envisaged - the rapporteur did not mention this - to exclude the punishable conduct of criminal proceedings with a financial penalty or with prison sentences of up to five years in the case of the particular nature of the offence and the non-usuality of the behaviour. We believe that a crime is a crime: there may be a reduction in the penalty (and for this reason there are mitigating circumstances), but the penalty cannot be excluded just because it was not such an important crime. In addition, we note that the Commission has included decriminalisation cases in the measure, and here too we cannot fail to express our extreme opposition. We are actually talking about decriminalizing certain cases that probably did not create great social alarm, but we remember that in this context it is expected that the transformation into administrative illegal of crimes such as (we can also say so) obscene acts in public places, obscene publications; I keep silent on others, but even just to remind these two, is perhaps because morality diminishes, is it because our moral judgment diminishes that certain behaviors cannot be considered criminal? For some other cases - in the Commission there are various draft laws in this respect - we are constantly trying to aggravate the penalties and penalties, because there are very serious conducts, and then, because of the problem of overcrowding of prisons, we come to predict depenalization, release and house arrests. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We even expect the possibility of a crime to be absolved. We can also understand that the courtrooms are now full of proceedings for matters that are considered bagatellar, but if we foresee, as in this case, the repeal of crimes even of false in private writings, are we not saying that they are lawful behaviors? Even if we were to provide for civil sanctions (as is provided for here, even if we do not understand what civil sanctions may be there), the crime of falsehood is a crime of falsehood and must be punished, because in the end behaviors that are not censored, according to the mindset of those who apply them, can be considered allowed. An abhorrence is foreseen: will it then be permitted to swear? Just because I pay something, can I swear? Iniuria must be eliminated from our speech and considered a crime and must absolutely remain a crime. The same goes for the subtraction of common things, usurpation, the appropriation of lost things, to arrive at a striking case in the Commission. In fact, an amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement was voted to repeal Article 10 of the Single Text of the provisions on immigration. The North League has been highlighting immigration issues for years. We do not want to do populism nor do we want to try to create alarmism: we are just saying that immigration is a sensitive issue that must be addressed in a delicate way and not simply by repealing a hypothesis that, in our opinion, was precisely to safeguard our Italy. Then we come to talk about the institute of testing and the trial of the inoperable. With regard to the institute of testing, while understanding that it is essential for a prisoner to follow a path of reeducation that inserts him into society and does not alienate him from it, we cannot, however, think that these measures can always be considered as alternatives and extinct proper to the process and punishment. We at the North League simply want to say that in a country like ours, where we talk about problems such as prison overcrowding, it is not possible that instead of facing problems directly we must always find solutions "Italian." It's a bit like talking about the problem of failures: there was a time when, day after day, judgments of bankruptcy of the courts were accumulated, the bankruptcies were full of them. And what did you think you'd do? Amend the rule to exclude certain assumptions from bankruptcy. Failures have actually been reduced, but this does not mean that companies do not fail. As in this case, to envisage these measures to release and prevent this overcrowding in prisons is not a way to solve the problem, which is solved upstream, with a very structured program, and not intervening in small pieces with an intervention done last summer and a measure that comes out now, in which we talk about 200 prisoners released every week. So what's the plan? How many people will ultimately be released? How will this affect the system? Will it be effective and efficient? Why do we always have to act in such an unscathed way instead of with a program? We insist that, as we have always said, we move forward with a programme to make new prisons, with prisons perhaps with a lower degree of security for less serious crimes. However, we must act in that direction. Although I am aware that it is a difficult path, agreements with foreign countries must then be drawn up so that foreigners may atone for their country of origin. It is laborious, but this road must be traveled, because, already considering the number of foreigners we have in our prisons and eliminating this problem, we could go back within the borders that are imposed on us. Finally, what we want to say is that we really need to think that we are experiencing a critical moment: there are problems of crisis, people feel insecure and ask us politicians to intervene decisively to find a solution to the crisis that allows us to move forward; we also read from the articles in the newspapers that are constantly raging predatory crimes, robberies and many thefts for which house arrest is expected. At such a time, our people, who are outside this House and see such measures as today, what can you think of this Government, this majority and these decisions? They're gonna think of us as people who are working without a responsibility. I truly appeal to you, not for the individual measure, but for reason in the integrity of our and your programs. We have to think about people outside. We cannot create an atmosphere of emotional insecurity in people who hear about release or liberation or who, after being victims of crime, could see the criminal free. We do not feed personal sales, we do not further feed a sense of insecurity that already exists in our Italy. Be careful; be careful. We must return to the rigour. When there is a moment of social crisis, it must rage the rigor, and not continuously a mitigation of the same. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We at the North League want to be guardians of these topics and policies; we want to emphasize to you the needs: in this historical moment these things must not be done. As much as you can read between the lines, I remember the words of those who said: When a people, devoured by the thirst for freedom, finds themselves at the head of the cupbearers who pay as much as they want, until drunken, it happens then that, if the rulers resist the demands of the increasingly demanding subjects, they are declared tyrants. And it also happens that those who prove disciplined towards the superiors are called a man without character, servant; that the frightened father ends up treating the son as his peer, and is no longer respected, that the teacher dares not rebuke the schoolchildren and they mock him, that the young pretend the same rights, the same considerations as the old, and these, not to appear too strict, give reason to the young. In this climate of freedom, in the name of the same, there is no more regard for anyone. A bad plant is born and developed in the midst of such a license: tyranny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, people are now afraid to go out in the evening and you want to promote blackness as in France. But we can do without... As an idea it is demented because it is of the underpopulated countries that want new population: it would be the last shot to allow access to everyone, migrants and illegals... I've never been on the right, but I'm not with a left who's minister of Kyenge. [[Applause from Senator Bellot.]] I read that Kyenge and her Councilwoman Livia Turco want the quotas reserved for immigrants in society. We're dementia. The Turk doesn't know anything about anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u60	Senator, I would ask you to have a language respectful of the Minister of the Republic and the people involved. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] I also ask you, Senator Candiani, to respect the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u61	Sure, I'll take care of it right away. The Turkish doesn't know anything about anything and the Kyenge isn't qualified... Kyenge isn't qualified for very delicate duties. Kyenge doesn't know what integration is, she doesn't know anything about anything, she wants to promote blackness as in France, but we can do without it. Do you know why I make this quote, President? To say these words is not the barbarian Legist Bitonci, president of the Lega Nord Group in the Senate, but Giovanni Sartori, one of your politologists, because of the left and considered one of the leading experts in political science at international level, with to the active various collaborations with universities. Then instead we move on to another who can certainly not be considered a right-wing politologist, nor a right-wing writer, who writes on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). I'm talking about Panebianco and his article yesterday, "Too many hypocrisies about immigrants" in which we read: The request of Matteo Renzi to include the reform of the Bossi-Fini among the themes of the government contract, beyond the motivations of the new secretary of the PD, could be an opportunity to seize to give more rational bases to our immigration policy. Do we just have to confine ourselves to buffering and containing migratory flows or do we need more active and, above all, more selective interventions? A question that becomes possible if you leave behind the ambiguities and hypocrisies that have so far dominated the camp. The ambiguity depends on the fact that we seem incapable, because of certain ideological superstructures, of deciding once and for all what criterion to hang immigration policy: convenience or reception? ... The reasons for convenience are well known: we need to combat the ageing of the population, we need - at least if economic recovery, as we hope, will eventually come - additional labour force and new consumers. But to these reasons, inspired by convenience, others of a different nature, of a humanitarian nature (the reasons for the reception) are often added. Plans get mixed up, making rational choices impossible. The appeal to welcome has a clear ideological origin......................................................................................................................... Ladies and gentlemen, this article (which, I repeat, was written by Panebianco and not by a legist) is perfect with what you want to approve today, a shameful measure. Instead of working on what would be the actual scope (i.e. the creation of new prisons and the possibility for foreign prisoners to serve the sentence in the country of origin), what do you do? With an amendment by my dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement abolishing the crime of illegality, which was strongly wanted by our Government and former Minister Maroni. In fact, the crime of clandestineness had been practically disapplied by your judges, because every time the occasion came - we saw many cases, especially at the beginning, also in the court of Genoa - the relevant cases were not considered, and this according to the regulations of international law that provide for the reception and a whole series of issues that, like the statements of Minister Kyenge, do nothing but bring in a whole other situation. Mr Kyenge's statements, unfortunately - I would like to reiterate this clearly and strongly in this House - do nothing but call hundreds and thousands of desperate people to our territory. Mr President, from January to today 1,000 illegal immigrants have arrived in our territory in just fifteen days. Last year more than 10,000 of them arrived: it is, that is, every year, a new city of illegal immigrants that we must maintain. Therefore, we absolutely cannot bear this amendment of the Five Star Movement, which we will face with a harsh opposition, which we will continue to do in this House today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This measure stems from the will and the need of the Government and the majority to address, but not to solve, what is the problem, as I said before, of the overcrowding of prisons. It tackles it but does not solve it itself, because this measure does not give a reliable or exhaustive answer to a problem that is real and serious. We are opposed to the way and also to the solutions proposed by this text. We say this immediately: this provision is useless. You have lost weeks and weeks in the Commission, back and forth between the House and the Senate, but this provision is absolutely useless and will have no result. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is, above all, highly damaging, precisely because some principles will be strongly undermined by its application and some values, even of a constitutional nature, will be worsened. I am referring in particular to the issue of the safety of our cities, including those of the North. In fact, if you take a walk in some quarters of Padua, my city, you will see the problems related to the crime of illegal immigration, to those who sell drugs, to those who work around the world of illegal prostitution, many times even juvenile, and will understand how these measures are absolutely useless in this field. For the citizens, security is a fundamental point, and the measure under consideration, as I said, in addition to greatly worsening security also undermines another fundamental principle, Madam President: that of certainty of the penalty, because the principle of effectiveness and effectiveness of the penalty is disenforced and strongly damaged by the measure itself. This is a harmful and wrong measure, against which we will make a very hard opposition, even tomorrow and beyond. We will put in place all possible tools to block this inauspicious bill, which in reality is not a saving-carriage provision, but must be called by its name, i.e. save-delinquents, because this is a text that saves criminals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For us in the North League, in fact, there are no serious criminals A or B, there is no microcriminality: there is only crime, and with this measure hundreds and hundreds of criminals are sent out of prison [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would also like to talk about the issue of impunity for those who commit crimes of particular social alarm, because there is absolutely no hiding behind this issue. It cannot be just, as some say, a social alarm problem, because, as is claimed, they are minor crimes. For example, let us say that you, Madam President, come out of this building (maybe you don't have the escort or the service car), turn around your city and approach a person who tears her purse off, dropping it on the ground and maybe hit her head: crimes of this kind cannot be drunken as minors; these are real crimes that do not only cause a problem of social alarm and must be combated with the same measures as all the predatory crimes that affect our populations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are crimes that, according to data, are increasing especially at this time, so also in relation to the phenomenon of illegal immigration. I am referring in particular, for example, to house theft, scam, concealment, stalking (and here I am addressing women, but also men), which has been discussed extensively in this Parliament. These are very serious crimes, against which, by approving the measure under consideration, a dramatic message is out: you quietly commit crimes of serious social alarm, so there will be the possibility of not paying and not serving the sentence in prison! This provision sends out two messages, wrong. The first is an unconditional surrender of the state in the face of crime at a time when the state should put in place measures to combat those phenomena of crime that are disruptive to our families and our cities. The state in this case sends a completely different message, a wrong message of surrender and abandonment of the need to ensure the safety of our citizens. This measure also represents the certification, the proven proof, of the failure of all the measures taken in recent years (I refer in particular to that indult from 2006 onwards, which the North League has not voted, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement!). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We were the only ones who didn't vote for the indult, and after two years, the 20,000 outcasts all came back to fill their country jails, so from 25,000 we reached 60,000 inmates. The problem of overcrowding in prisons has not been solved at all and this measure will not solve it. Yours is an unfair solution. Unfortunately, they will pay for this honest citizens, who will see the streets of thieves and snatchers moving freely from tomorrow, because it is clear that it is an illusion that approving such a measure can keep the condemned at home. As the representatives of the police denounce daily, you should have intervened trying to guarantee their work, increasing the endowments of our Carabinieri, our Police and even our mayors, who in this field lead even personal battles. With your measures you have instead taken away resources, means and patrols from the fundamental function, unique and exclusive, of the Forces of Order: that of guaranteeing the safety of our citizens. The solution must go through the realization of structures, and in this regard I must say that the former Legist minister Castelli had begun a plan of prison building that unfortunately - these are the data - was blocked by the successive governments. This is a plan that has been highly criticized, but if this line had been followed we would not have had to see these nefarious measures that send the criminals on the street and we would have prisons where to put the criminals inside, because, Madam President, the criminals must stay inside the prisons! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Another intervention that has not been adopted - although the North League has always suggested it - is that of the famous bilateral agreements. The only one who has concluded bilateral agreements, in order to combat the illegality and mass migration of desperate people coming from North African countries, was our Minister Maroni, who was the only one who managed to block thousands of desperate people who arrive every day on our coasts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Madam President, it has not only blocked these desperate ones: with international agreements with the countries of North Africa - and everyone remembers this well - we have also avoided hundreds of deaths. This is the hypocrisy of this center-left, who wants to open the doors to illegal immigration: you have not managed to avoid the dead and you have the direct responsibility for what has happened, not those who want tougher penalties and those who want to block the departure of the ships of the desperate on the coast. So, returning to prisons and penalties, in some prisons in the North, as many as 60% of the prisoners are of foreign origin: there are non-EUs, but there are also many Communitys, even those - I must say - thanks to the Prodi Government. Then, in 2007, in fact, while some countries have made agreements, Germany or England itself, a moratorium on the entry of some Community citizens (I mean Romanians in particular), we have opened the doors, and thousands of Romanians have arrived. The effect can be verified carefully, because it was the same Romanian chief quaestor, the head of the Romanian police, who declared that in 2007 crimes in Romania decreased by 18 percent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u62	I invite you to conclude, Senator Bitonci, because the twenty minutes at your disposal are ending.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u63	BITONCI (LN-Aut). We are opposed, Mr President, and we are also trying to say what we are saying about this shameful measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u64	There are many Senators from your Group who are members to speak in general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u65	BITONCI (LN-Aut). But we have time; we are also here on Friday, Saturday, Sunday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Meanwhile, he concluded his speech at the time that she was assigned. BITONCI (LN-Aut). I will finish the concept, because it is very important. I was saying that in 2007 the head of the Romanian police declared that in Romania the most serious crimes, especially the most serious ones, such as predators, have decreased by 18 percent, and you know why? Because these have all come to our house to delinquere: this is the reality! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] So when you do operations like this, when you open up national borders, everyone gets in. "Next all, come to Italy" - they have been found even leaflets around that invited to come to the country of Eldorado - "Venite...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u66	Finish the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u67	BITONCI (LN-Aut). ..."Come to Italy: here is everything; we give you everything, assistance, to eat". VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. Even a few women to rape. BITONCI (LN-Aut). Yeah, that, too, but I'm not saying that. There is a direct responsibility, Madam President, and this responsibility belongs to the Chancellors Minister, but above all to those who wanted a useless, ineffective Minister and, perhaps, the worst Minister of the Republic who has ever been there, together with Minister Kyenge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u69	Madam President, I assure you right now that you will not have to call me back for quotes from left-wing politologists. I make my speech while all political forces, excluding the North League, are trying to find agreements on this measure, including colleagues from the 5 Star Movement, who clearly participate. (Senators, as well as the government representative, are speaking at the speaker's desk.) President, it would be nice for the government representative to listen to the opposition from time to time, but it is not important: I say what I think. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, but I think the government needs to listen to majority and opposition. You're welcome, Undersecretary. (The Undersecretary Ferri returns to the benches of the Government). VOLPI (LN-Aut). Thank you very much, Mr President, you are always very correct. I believe that there is a fundamental political problem. First of all, it seems to me that there is a division of the two issues: on the one hand, the problem of security, and on the other, the problem of prison. I believe that this is precisely the wrong assumption to make absolutely divergent reasonings between them. It is clear, in fact, that the assumption of the safety of people, of citizens, must necessarily go hand in hand with the certainty of the penalty. In this case it is clear, among other things, with retroactivity spaces that I cannot understand how they can be acceptable, that the two issues are implemented differently. On the one hand, there is a lack of security - a topic I will be addressing shortly - and this is certainly not only highlighted by local administrators of the League, and, on the other, the desire to find an absolutely partial, useless and dangerous solution, which is to get the criminals out of prison. I listened first to a colleague, who has also made an interesting speech, also to talk about what is not present in this measure: in it there is completely - said the colleague of the Democratic Party - a substantial and serious intervention compared to the operators who, inside the prisons, work, from educators to prison police officers. However, I would like to remind my colleague in the Democratic Party, not in polemic but political terms, that her party has been ruling the country for three and a half years. You can't, therefore, always look at ten years ago. You have to do something if you think these interventions are important. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , because otherwise it is always about the other impact. For three and a half years you have been to the government: of course they are governments that may not have given you much satisfaction, but now you will reshuffle and you will certainly have more. Let me also address another political term that I find dramatic for everyone. I do not know how the government politically interprets this measure: my opinion is that it demonstrates the surrender of the state. It is clear that when a State re-examines its ability to be precise in the application of the penalty it surrenders. And he's doing it because he doesn't have places in jail? I think that is one of the worst things that can be said. I, too, expressed my closeness to Mr Esposito. We who have experienced other moments remember that moment when we had to say no to certain things, without if and without but. The lack of if and without but, which applies to the most important and dramatic things, must also apply to what is considered the crime, which is never minor but is absolutely dangerous, as President Bitonci said before. It is clear that the proportionality of the crime is also linked to the person who is harmed: if they steal from an old woman the purse that contained the pension, she will not eat for a month. It's not that one has to perform who knows what acts to be considered a criminal [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It seems to me, however, that this is not realistically considered, and here lies the psychological split between the reality of security and action to free places in prison. First we talked about numbers, and there is no doubt that numbers have an important importance: we talked about foreigners inside prisons. With regard to Lombardy, I have seen some data these days, and I think that more or less correspond: out of 9,300 prisoners there are 4,200 foreigners; in Liguria about 1,900 there are 1,000 foreigners. This does not mean - as was said - that all foreigners are criminals. It is inevitable, however, to think that, if the proportionality of the foreign presence on our territory is however equivalent to the sanctioning form for which these are in jail, the detectable proportion between the regular and irregular foreign population (unfortunately often irregular in our territory) transforms the data into a dramatic data on the safeguard in terms of security. It is therefore linked to that more complex reasoning that is inevitable for us: the discourse of immigration. The arranged combination obviously becomes dramatic in terms of delinquency. In fact, at a time when there is a lack of certain deterrent on the criminal element and instead it is somehow encouraged an immigration even no longer considered irregular, it becomes a problem. Speaking of politics and democracy, I allow myself, without wishing to be offensive, to address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. Yesterday the referendum was held online, what they call direct democracy. It seems to me that 15,000 were in favour and 9,000 against. The 15,000 people in favour of repealing the crime of illegal immigration represent (let me stress this because democracy also has a numerical value) about 0.025 percent of the Italian population. This, however, could be considered a subjective fact, even if it is really objective. In fact, they represent less than 1% of the citizens who voted for the 5 Star Movement, and this is an objective fact. I believe (and I would like to stress this) that the political responsibility that colleagues in the 5 Star Movement assume in representing an important, important political position and, in terms of numbers within the Senate, absolutely central, is really great, precisely because it represents 0.2% (so, not even 1%) of its voters, on a non-program (I think you call it that) in which there was no clarification of this topic. I would like to ask you: are you sure that this is the best way to represent your constituents? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Since I'm a little curious, yesterday I read some posts: as in all parties, of course, there is a great debate. But know that it is a political responsibility. It's not a political attack, mine. Rather, I would like to reflect, as happens when important decisions are to be taken on measures, to say that if it had been in the programme, maybe someone could say that they are populists (and perhaps they are, from a certain point of view). But not being included in the programme a certain theme, relying on the 0.2% direction of your electorate I believe requires a great deal of responsibility. This is my assessment (and I did not enter, as someone did, speculating on the terms of leadership, because everyone in their own party has the leadership they want): it was a choice. There are two other issues that puzzle me, Madam President. You know that I am not a fan of the subject, however, by practicing within the classrooms (five years in the Chamber of Deputies and about a year in the Senate) I try to understand some passages. I am very puzzled by two technical passages, so to speak, namely the terms of the delegations. First I spoke about the surrender of the State, now I am talking about the surrender of Parliament, because - (to Senator Buemi, who talks with Undersecretary Ferri) I hope that I can do so with the help of Senator Buemi, who will certainly give me a hand, being more careful in this matter, then taking the post of Undersecretary: it is a wish that I make him - how can Parliament, in such a delicate matter that deals with the incidence of punishment, delegate the Government to give the last brushstrokes, as the rapporteur has defined them, on the revision of penalties? Parliament, the majority, must assume the responsibility of defining clearly and precisely the legislative passages that introduce changes in the system of penalties, otherwise it means that one is afraid to assume political responsibility and it is discharged (as often happens on other issues) on the poor government. The second, which I consider most worrying (I would not like to appear biased), is the wide space left to the magistrate in determining the passages. In my view, the application of the rule must also be precise here. Certainly it cannot be expected that the magistrate will be precise when Parliament and the majority themselves are afraid to determine the penalties. I am not talking about the great cases, the great politics, but about the small politics and, even more, the small justice. Leaving a magistrate the responsibility to determine to what extent and how these rules can be applied means that one day - and I think unfortunately in very close times - we will find ourselves wondering, as has already happened in some cases, why that magistrate made a certain decision and then there was the Kabobo on duty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Attention, because if we do not give the magistrate - and I want to defend the magistrates - the specific and codified instrument of what is his ability to intervene, leaving him the personal space of choice, we will find ourselves having to criticize the magistrates, because serious crimes will occur, with the relapses that will come out of jail. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And then, responsibility must be strong and specific, and politics cannot always abdicate, to say that it is someone else's fault. I do not think this is a marginal element. I can think of something. It has happened, and unfortunately happens, that what someone calls microcriminality, and that instead it is not, leads to moments that I do not like and that happen but, if so, it means that there is a case study for which certain facts are determined. It is what I would call private justice, i.e. the immediate reaction of those who are wronged and, perhaps violently, feel that they are responding to that wrong. With the 2006 indult measure - it's not mine, of course - there was a relapse rate that reached, in the first six months of the year, 14%. It's a nice percentage, a large number of people who probably got out of prison without any kind of accompaniment. That is what will happen to others because - let's face it - the measure that we are examining free places, but it is absolutely not concerned to accompany outside those who are released. We will thus find a part of these people who will go out, desperate, bringing back their experiences of life to those prior to imprisonment and who will think that the only way to survive is to return to crime. Back to criminality, those people will be back in the case of relapse that will hurt the citizens, that is to say those who voted for us and who also voted for the majority of their colleagues, not just the League. And here I come back to wonder if I'm a populist. It seems to me that these are reasonings of common sense, which do not necessarily want to be demagogic or populist. Of course, Madam President, there is a difference between me and your party. We are a little less politically correct, although we believe that by now in a broad way it has proved that the politically correct "does not necessarily lead to good results, because it makes uncritical than the real problems; it makes reality become something neutral, so it codifies everything that is good and that is necessarily good, and woe to say otherwise. Too bad that good is forgotten and that this happens for obvious things, namely that the criminal is criminal, and not only. For example, I can think of something that has nothing to do with it, but that I want to represent you: there are two Italians on the other side of the world, who have been waiting for justice for two years and we don't even know what will happen anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] For two years we have heard the "farloccate" of governments: I don't know, but poor De Mistura must have tan, since he is practically there every week, I don't know what to do - poor him - but he is there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I wonder how we can continue to reason in these terms, so the politically correct demands that we should not speak badly of the immigrant, who we believe is something different from the migrant. You can't speak badly of Indians, because otherwise we risk losing contracts; you can't even speak badly of the delinquent, because it must be re-educated anyway. Of course the criminal must be re-educated: and that 14 percent of relapses in the first six months of 2006 how did he re-educate himself? Reiterating the crime? I would be concerned, Madam President, on the contrary, I do, and you can see that I am trying to make a speech which is not purely obstructive but which, despite the obvious lack of interest of the Government, gives some ideas of reasoning. The prison plan was remembered. Some prisons are half built and then abandoned. But it's our money, it's citizens' money. But did you want and do you want to intervene? And even these governments that have passed hands with each other in these three years, do they want or do not want to intervene? I am also one who, like the others of my party, thinks that those famous bilateral interventions with third countries are important, according to which those who commit a crime and are sentenced must serve the sentence in the country of origin. Of course I am not blind and I understand that there is no part of the Mediterranean where there are no problems, but it does not seem to me that even minimal attempts have been made to cross that Mediterranean Sea [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and try, together with those governments, to find solutions to the repatriation of those who have been sentenced and for this they should serve imprisonment in their own country. There are also other issues, Madam President. To think that the state can imagine itself as an organism that does not care about prisoners is an absurd thing, and this measure proves it, because it has nothing to do with the intervention of civilizations that someone wants to put under our noses. The problem of civilization is, however, the way in which one is in prisons, and not in saying: Get out, I'll kick your ass, get out the door and arrange it. [[The president takes up Senator Volpi with a nod.]] Excuse me, I let myself go. But it wasn't a left-wing quote... president. It has nothing to do with left or right. It's about language. You're welcome, Senator. Thank you. Here, in the end, Madam President, we take people, close the prison door behind their backs and say to them: Now go, arrange for yourself. Does that sound like a normal policy to you? Does that seem to you to be a policy that chooses to find a solution (which is also strongly requested by the President of the Republic against whom, as you know, in some cases I raise a dispute)? In this case, however, it is obvious that there are also unsustainable situations, but the solution is to build new prisons, it is to send these people to the other side of the Mediterranean or to their own countries, it is not to close the door behind them. I allow myself, Madam President, to conclude my speech, although I know that I will not take the 20 minutes I have been given and that I will be called back by my President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You'll take your 20 minutes as scheduled. VOLPI (LN-Aut). No, perhaps I did not make myself clear: it is I who will not use them, and therefore I will receive a reminder from my President for this. I'll leave you one last thought. I believe that the political will is one thing, that making the laws present is an aspect of conscience because the result of the articulates that are produced must be removed from propaganda, and that consciousness is something that cannot be unilateral. When dealing with this problem, we cannot only look at those who are inside prisons, but we must especially look at the citizens who are outside prisons. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u70	I warn you, however, that your 20 minutes have been spent and therefore cannot be taken back by your President. Given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u73	Mr Fornaro (PD). Madam President, since reading the shorthand report of the 8 and 9 January part-sessions, I have discovered that, although I am rapporteur on draft law No 1188 and therefore present in the Chamber, having given indications of vote and opinion on the amendments as required by the Rules of Procedure, I have been absent in two votes, No 61 of sitting No 162 of 8 January and No 170 of sitting No 163 of 9 January. I therefore call for a check to be carried out, if possible. That I was present and that I was present at the voting time too seems to me to be an indisputable fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u74	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u77	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, on 7 December 2013, the MiBACT published the call for "500 young people for culture," provided for by the Cultural Value Decree. In this ban the suspicion is that the disease, so to speak "alla Fornero," of the diabolical mess to get caught up in initiatives aimed at young people or who knows who, has infected also the Minister of Education and his collaborators in the Ministry. This call, in fact, provides that 500 graduates with 110 and praise, under 35, are employed in a training internship for 12 months to an annual gross compensation of 5,000 euros, which makes more or less 3 euros and 50 cents per hour. There is no need to comment on the proposal: 3 euros and 50 cents an hour for a graduate with 110 and praise, occupied between 30 and 35 hours a week, it seems euphemistically - I repeat - a grip on the nose! It raises the whole world of culture and, in the forge of the minds of the MiBACT, you run to the shelters and try to put a patch, but it is absolutely not enough. The following considerations must therefore be made: first, this notice had already been criticized in the examination of the decree value culture, since it is not clear why a further opportunity for training is to be introduced in a field in which operators are already widely formed by masters, degree courses and specialization courses. What is lacking in this field, however, is the offer of work without discrimination of age, because in MiBACT there are very long lists of professionalism of cataloguing, of people ready to be employed in this operation of digitization of our heritage, which are not taken into account at all. On Saturday I went to the demonstration "500 no for the MiBACT" and I wanted to address a prayer to the Minister, because I understand that neither he, who was in Carditello celebrating, nor any of his collaborators was present. Prayer is as follows: on the one hand, to work promptly and effectively to reintegrate the now bled out staff of the public institutes and offices of conservation and protection, and, on the other hand, to implement a strategic plan for relaunching and developing the sector, also starting from the refinancing of ordinary programmes of cataloguing, inventorying and digitization. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-164.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.30 a.m.
