ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 15 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u4	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1402, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1030. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a new parliamentary committee of inquiry into the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro is a significant and qualifying act, which will enable the work of previous committees of inquiry to be supplemented in the light of the new rules on secrecy and on the procedures for declassification and the recent archival availability, especially offered by the countries of Eastern Europe. From an institutional point of view, we committed ourselves as Senate to the initiative having a bicameral character and to deepen both the issue of internal omissions and negligences and that of foreign interferences that characterized those tragic days. This bill does not want to constitute an action against someone, but represents a political and civil duty that we feel towards the national community that still asks us to deepen our knowledge on a matter that has so tragically marked the history of the Italian Republic and has marked its future developments. The text before the Assembly does not change the draft law approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not make any changes to it during the examination in the referee. A Commission of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro is planned. Article 1 gives the Commission the task of ascertaining both new elements which may supplement the knowledge acquired by the previous parliamentary committees of inquiry which have dealt with the massacre of Via Fani, the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro, and any liability on such facts attributable to apparatus, structures and organizations, whatever their name may be, or to persons belonging to or belonging to them. In accordance with Article 2, the Commission's work must be completed within 24 months of its establishment, with the submission of a report on the findings of the investigations and, where appropriate, minority reports. Article 3 provides that the Commission shall be composed of thirty senators and thirty Members, chosen by their respective Presidents in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups, while ensuring the presence of one representative for each Group. The Commission shall be convened within 10 days of the appointment of the members for the establishment of the Bureau, composed of the President, two Vice-Presidents and two Secretaries, and elected by secret ballot. The President must be elected by an absolute majority of the members of the Commission, otherwise there will be a ballot between the two candidates who have obtained the highest number of votes. The candidate who gets the highest number of votes will be elected. In the event of a tie, the oldest of the votes shall be elected or shall enter into the ballot. For the election, respectively, of the two Vice Presidents and the two Secretaries, each member of the Commission will write on his card a single name. Those who have obtained the highest number of votes will be elected. In the event of a tie, we shall proceed as in the case of the President. This procedure is also applicable in the case of supplementary elections. Article 4 provides for the application of Articles 366 (refusal of legally due offices) and 372 (false testimony) of the Criminal Code for the witness hearings held before the Commission, without prejudice to the competence of the judicial authority: I would like to emphasise this aspect. In the area of secrecy, the rules on professional and banking secrecy are extended to the Commission. With regard to state secrecy, it is envisaged that Law No 124 of 3 August 2007, which provides, inter alia, that state secrecy cannot be assumed for acts of terrorism or subversive acts of the constitutional order. The possibility of professional secrecy (Article 201 of the Code of Criminal Procedure) for facts falling within the Commission's remit is excluded. Finally, it is without prejudice to the possibility of secrecy between the lawyer and the party to the proceedings, stating - with the reference of Article 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure - that the personnel employed by the Security Services are not obliged to reveal to the Commission the names of their informants. Article 5 recalls the provisions of Article 82 of the Constitution on the possibility for the Commission to carry out investigations and examinations with the same powers and limitations as the judicial authority. In this respect, the draft law introduces a limitation of these powers. As provided for in the laws of the Anti-Mafia Committees of Inquiry since 2006, it is stated that the Commission cannot take measures with regard to the freedom and secrecy of correspondence and other forms of communication, nor limitations of personal freedom, with the exception of the coercive accompaniment of witnesses, as provided for in Article 133 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The rule referred to provides that the judge may order the compulsory accompaniment of the witness, the expert, the person subject to the examination of the expert other than the accused, the technical consultant, the interpreter or the custodian of things seized, regularly cited or summoned, if they omit without a legitimate impediment to appear at the place, on the day and at the time specified. In addition, the court may order them to pay a sum of EUR 51 to EUR 516 in favour of the fund of fines and to pay the costs to which the non-appearance has been sued. Paragraphs 3 to 8 of Article 5 shall contain rules on the application for documents and documents. With regard to the transmission of documents by the judicial authority, the possibility of obtaining such documents from the judicial authority is also provided for in derogation from the obligation of confidentiality of preliminary investigations. The judicial authority may delay the transmission of copies of the documents requested only for reasons of an investigation, by issuing a reasoned decree which shall take effect for six months and which may be renewed. Where such reasons fail, the judicial authority shall transmit the requested information. I want to point out that the decree loses its effectiveness and cannot be renewed once the preliminary investigations are closed. The Commission is also empowered to establish acts and documents which are not to be disclosed, provided that the Commission ensures the secrecy of any acts which may be covered by secrecy or confidentiality rules. With regard to acts subject to the obligation of functional secrecy by other Commissions of inquiry, secrecy cannot be opposed to the Commission. As usual, the obligation of secrecy is laid down for members of the Commission, officials and all persons who, for reasons of their professional or service, become aware of it; similarly, the partial dissemination of such documents and documents is also sanctioned. The violation of secrecy shall be punished in accordance with Article 326 of the Criminal Code, which shall punish the disclosure and use of office secrets of the public officer or public service officer with imprisonment from six months to three years. In addition, the organisation of the activities and the operation of the Commission is subject to rules of procedure, which may be used by judicial police officers and police officers and any cooperation they consider necessary. I begin to conclude by stressing that the authorisation of expenditure provided for in article 7, paragraph 5, is equal to 17,500 euros for the year 2014, 35,000 euros for the year 2015 and 17,500 euros for the year 2016, charged, in equal parts, to the internal budgets of the Chamber and the Senate. Finally, Article 8 provides for the entry into force of the law, fixed on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. The Italian public opinion needs, I believe, a historical truth finally credible also, and I would say above all, to thin the fog of the many reasons that have accompanied the Moro case and, more generally, the history of terrorism in Italy from the massacre of Piazza Fontana in 1969 until the mid-eighties. It is a sensitive Commission, which will have to exercise the utmost sense of responsibility for its action, also in view of the fact that investigations by the judiciary continue to be carried out, which obviously will not have to take place in the field and there will have to be respect for mutual autonomy. Working on this objective, as a historian who has studied the subject and today as a senator of the Republic, I believe that it is one of the best services we can do together to strengthen the credibility of our institutions. It is an extreme homage that we owe to the noble figure of Aldo Moro, who in one of his last letters from captivity, with words that still admonish us, wrote: "Because the truth, dear friends, is greater than any profit. Give me millions of votes on the one hand and take away an atom of truth on the other side, and I will still be a loser. With this sensitivity and clarity of objectives we must approach the work of this Commission, which must be effective and inspired by principles of seriousness and autonomy, because, once again with the words of Aldo Moro, the truth is always enlightening. It helps us to be brave. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we therefore come to the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry which has the task of shed light on the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro. We also believe, as the rapporteur, Senator Gotor, has already explained well, that this is a significant and important act, qualifying for our country, to try to finally shed light on a tragic, terrible and still disturbing story that has severely undermined democracy in this country. From an institutional point of view, therefore, it is an important step that the text that we now approve of in the Senate, without any changes to those made to the House, finds a cross-sectional sharing. As a Group of course we support and support this initiative, especially because of the considerations of necessity due to the fact that, unfortunately, in this affair, as in many others that have marked the democratic life of our country, there are still too many dark, uncleared implications that are also interwoven with the political life and with the institutions present in this country today. This Commission, therefore, has the task of shed light on events that other Commissions have already tried to clarify in the past. We hope that this will be a very good time, that this Commission will be able to pursue its purpose effectively and swiftly. From this point of view we are convinced that the bicameral composition will help the investigations. We are also pleased that the deadline for the work of this Commission has been set for twenty-four months; initially it was thought of as a shorter period of eighteen months: twenty-four months perhaps allow more comprehensive action to be taken. We hope, however, that this action will also be incisive. Too many times, in fact, we have seen parliamentary committees of inquiry or inquiry set up which have then stood firm on paper and have not produced the important results that were hoped for. We are also pleased that the operating costs of this Commission are contained. the rapporteur Gotor has explained that they are previewed in 17,500 euros for the first year - 2014 - and 35.000 for 2015, to load of the respective budgets of the two branches of the Parliament, Chamber and Senate. Attention to the burden, to the costs of public finance, is certainly also an important aspect of these times. We have raised a question in the Commission only about the composition. The Commission is composed of thirty senators and thirty Members, in total sixty members: it is a quite large number, in our opinion. Although we understand that, above all, the House was aware of the need for many Members to take part in this work, given the importance and delicacy of the matter, we have, however, the fear that this enlarged composition may in some way slow down the effectiveness of the action. A smaller number, then, might have been preferable for us. Beyond these technical considerations, we, as the Lega Nord Group, would like to make political considerations. It is worth remembering that thirty-five years have passed since the abduction and murder of Aldo Moro: it is one of the darkest pages in our country's history. It is no coincidence that we are talking about the country and not about the Republic, Mr President, precisely because we want to make our thoughts clear: it is a wound of democracy, which our Democratic Republic has suffered and which cannot be debilitated only as a wound inflicted by red terrorism on the institutions in the years of lead; it must, instead, be analysed as a striking fact, which unfortunately shows once again, as in many other episodes, the detachment between politics and citizens that has developed throughout the history of our Republic. It is clear that if this were only a dramatic event, linked to the violent degeneration of the armed struggle against the institutions, there would be no interest, today, after all these years, in returning to talk about it and to envisage, with a specific proposal for a law, the establishment of yet another parliamentary committee of inquiry; unfortunately, that is not the case. The Moro case has still dark, totally aberrant aspects, which unfortunately involve characters still present in the scenario of active politics. We are, therefore, aware today of the need to become aware of the sense of disaffection which, precisely because of episodes of this kind, has then manifested itself in the consciences of our fellow citizens: disaffection towards the institutions, a political dissent that must never find vent in forms of violence. Today, more than ever, all of us, in the exercise of our mandate, have a responsibility: we know that we have to deal with this widespread feeling of exasperation, which, however, has also become a watchman of what must be our work. A work that must always be carried out responsibly, as in this case too, to shed light on all the still dark aspects of this terrible affair. I do not want to dwell too much on the chronicle, which is now known to all of us, much less on the figure and the human, personal and political depth of Aldo Moro. I want to stress here that this Commission, in the importance of its action, must not be, as unfortunately often happened in this country, the umpteenth Commission which becomes a self-referential body, which creates new positions of privilege, which proves to be a waste of time to reshuffle cards already read or which is intended only to commemorate the important and fundamental figure of Aldo Moro. It must not be an opportunity to create clarity once again on important investigations that must be conducted by the State against terrorism and against all forms of attack on democratic life. We do not take this opportunity not to give those answers which, on the other hand, the citizens demand: let us have the courage to clear up the most hidden aspects of this affair. This Commission really must be an opportunity to identify all the responsibilities, even indirect ones, that are attributable to the heads of the State and the institutions, making it clear, once and for all, on this terrible affair, establishing how it was orchestrated, who were its authors and the leaders and also what role they have played in international organisations. This Commission must have the courage to read all the complicity, direct and indirect, relations that the political parties present in the constitutional arc maintained with subversive, violent or terrorist organisations. Once and for all, a deep line of demarcation must be drawn from that past. We also say this with foresight, because only in this way, including through the work of this Commission and bringing to light all these aspects, can we, as a political class, return to the right, fair and qualified relationship of trust and credibility with our fellow citizens. This must therefore be the occasion today to give a turning point, to highlight this sad story and to say what the truth is, so that from here we can start again and shed light on what is the history and honesty of an important political man like Aldo Moro. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u13	Aldo Moro, thirty-six years later: no, it is not a fiction in two episodes broadcast on the flagship net, nor the last book of a scholar of the bloodiest pages of our Republic. This is the subject of the last bicameral commission of inquiry, which was sent to the Senate on 21 March. A story that, together with many others, fits into the almanac of the secrets of Italy. Let us then make a leap into the past, in the year 1978: VII legislature, Andreotti to the Presidency of the Council, Cossiga to the inside, Bonifacio to the justice. Al Colle sat Giovanni Leone. There is only one denominator that unites these people: they are all dead. None of them, that is, is able to report what was happening in the golden corridors of the institutions of the seventies, what the highest offices of the State referred to in the months before the seizure and in the dramatic 55 days of imprisonment of Aldo Moro. It seems absurd to us that the two previous committees of inquiry, one in 1979 and one in 1988, five trials, hundreds of faldons, a boundless series of publications have not yet been able to clarify the whole matter. Suffice it to say that, for the only Moro case, 54,792 pages of documents rest in the historical archives of the Senate. You almost wonder if you really want to find the truth. Without prejudice to our respect for those who, like Moro, have been the victim of the bloody reasons of state and of a cospiracy and unfair interweaving that needed a scapegoat, we ask ourselves, in all honesty, what can be found at a distance of more than three decades. This transparency initiative seems much more than asynchronous. It is difficult, in fact, to bring back the clock of more than thirty years and say: Okay, let's make this clear. This, not by mere defeatism or by a connatural inclination to the mystery, but simply because it is evident - today more than ever - the care of those who could have moved in time; and this fantomatic "who" are not imaginary characters: they are our own institutions, those that today, through their own members, propose this bill. He had tried to light a light on this night of complicit reluctance, some time ago, the former inspector of Police Enrico Rossi, revealing the content of a letter arrived in 2009 to the newspaper "La Stampa" in Turin and written by one of the two agents of the Secret Services - therefore, servants of the State - who in Via Fani, during the abduction of Aldo Moro, helped the Red Brigades, protecting them from any disturbance of any kind. An investigation, this, hindered from the beginning. And again, in an enthusiast written in 2008, Maria Fida, the first born of the famous statesman from the Salento origins, talks about the silence imposed on the Moro family and about how behind the death of his father there were (i.e., literally) entities not attributable to a single person, but to powers and lobbying. The same powers and lobby against which we of the 5 Star Movement continue to clash. It is a gloomy homage to Giambattista Vico's historical courses and resorts, because you know, certain stories are repeated in the same way, even after a long time. Where, then, is this thirst for truth? Why has Moro's family always been left in the shadows? Maybe because the hit men's opinions are more prominent than those who knew Moro from a lifetime and knew by thread and by sign what was happening to him? Let's say a little 'how things are; make an effort of honesty, for once: the real problem are the untouchable archives, those that burn, that are handed down from hill to hill and that will never be desecrated. I am thinking of that of the Presidency of the Republic, which has always denied access to the judiciary by shielding itself from immunity, and, again, the information archive of the Carabinieri's weapon, which is not even well known where it is located, and those of the security secretariats of the various agencies and their Atlantic Pact Security Offices (USPA), protected by NATO secret. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. WOMAN (M5S). Yes, ma'am, a few lines. Of course, the country needs justice. But the massacre of Via Fani and, soon after, the discovery of Via Caetani - we all know this - were not isolated episodes in the history of our country. And that is why we take this opportunity to ask why committees of inquiry are not set up on matters that have never been investigated. Why do we not deal more deeply with the banking crimes, the recent and silent massacres of mafia, those that now cook in the pot, the hundreds of stories of corruption that affect the politicians of our country and on which the absolute omerta falls? Have the decency to answer: it is the credibility of the institutions and of those who, like Aldo Moro, believed so much, until they die. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u14	I now announce that Senator Mauro Mario has withdrawn his amendments, so at the end of the general discussion, after the replies, we will begin with the vote on the articles. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u15	Mr President, first of all, I am convinced that I am part of the FI-PdL XVII Group, but I am speaking on my own behalf. I am opposed to the setting up of this Commission of Inquiry, and I will explain the reasons quickly. It is a tragic story that, for reasons of identity, I have lived and remember very well. I had the privilege of meeting Aldo Moro, even seeing him sometimes when he came for a walk at the Marble Stadium to move a bit, or I happened to meet him when, as a private citizen, even though he was an important politician, he went to the cinema. This tragic affair has been dealt with by parliamentary committees and it has been investigated by the judiciary, there have been very wide-ranging press reports on the media, of which I believe that one of the most prestigious and important has been that of our colleague Zavoli, the famous "The Night of the Republic" and many books have been published. Well, frankly, it seems to me that setting up yet another Commission of Inquiry does not make sense. There will be expenses, and probably those who will be part of the Commission will write books, which has already happened. I think it is right that historians and, if necessary, magistrates should take care of this matter and that, if they needed Parliament to adopt or amend laws to enable them to do their work better, this would be sacrosanct, but I do not think it is Parliament's job to set up yet another Commission. Among other things, Mr President, the debate, albeit a brief one, which has shown you that each side will try to use the events of thirty-six years ago according to the current political needs, so it seems absolutely wrong to me. We need to respond to people by talking about things that are of interest and that can be useful for today. Mr President, I am pleased that you are the chair and I remind you that it is essential to amend our Rules of Procedure. I believe that the recent elections have also shown that people expect politics to do its job in practice and enable historians and magistrates to do their best. That is why I am not only saying that I am not in favour of the draft law under consideration in the general debate, but I preannunciation, so that I will not waste time later, that when I vote against it, I will vote against it on my own behalf. [[Applause from Senators Marino Luigi, Martelli and Vacciano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u16	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u17	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my appreciation for the presentation by the rapporteur, who combines the civil passion of the political exponent with the seriousness and competence of the historian, because there is no doubt that Senator Gotor has written the most convincing and enlightening pages on the Moro case. I will not take the floor on the legal text that has been presented, but I will make some comments on the underlying reasons for the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the abduction and death of the illustrious statesman. Nor will I take up the passages of a diatribe which seemed to me to be quite appalling and even surreal, such as the one that came into being between the House and the Senate, about which I hope we will proceed quickly to give life to the Commission. In my opinion, the basic issue is the clarification of the reasons behind this initiative. First of all, we have the work of previous committees of inquiry. Between 1996 and 1999 I too was a member of the so-called Pilgrim Commission, which obtained and brought to light - I believe - considerable results, and I am not shocked by the fact that Senator Pellegrino, together with another author, has published a text entitled "The Secret of the Republic," in which he has put forward valuable considerations on the matter. However, as Senator Gotor rightly observed, a new legislation on the secret and procedures for declassification has been promoted, while archives are available and there are opportunities offered by documentation that can come from the countries of the East and the former Soviet bloc. However, we can only greatly appreciate President Renzi's commitment to the issues of state secrecy. There is no doubt that the Moro affair has been subjected to a practice of falsifications, omissions, misconceptions, complicity, omerty, deviations, internal interference and negligence. But this line speaks and orients. All historians are absolutely aware that the false in history is a bundle and an address of truth. I therefore believe that it is increasingly necessary today to outline a framework in which historical-political truths can be brought closer to judicial certainty. All the more reason - and I will take this observation again - at a time which we consider to be favourable today, at a time of turning, at a time, as it is said today, of different changes. First of all, it will be essential to clear the field from misleading reasons that have invested in the theme of neo-fascist stragism as much as the story of red terrorism. In this regard, a vast bibliography has accumulated, albeit of different value and an imposing quantity of judicial papers, as well as a film production that has also proposed contrasting versions (I think about the works of Ferrara, Martinelli and Bellocchio). If this is the background, there is an impregnable historical-political data, that is the centrality of the Moro case in the story of Republican Italy. The biographer par excellence of Enrico Berlinguer, the historian Barbaragallo, poses at a certain point a question to which it will be appropriate that we undertake to give an answer. For Barbagallo, in fact, we witnessed the development of Italian history after Moro's death and after Berlinguer's death, but we have to ask ourselves - and it is a question of a counterproductive type - how the Italian history would have been carried out if Moro had not been kidnapped and barbaricly killed. I must now give two answers. The first to Senator Carraro, whom I respect, to which I mean that we do not intend to propose a sort of persistent parliamentary historiography nor, let alone, do we want to enhance the public use of history by politics. But the need remains to contribute to the knowledge of new sources and new testimonies in view of the possibility of providing new elements of judgment. What was the system of Moro's theoretical elaboration? Only in the light of this facility can a survey of the events to be studied by the Commission be carried out. Moro, as is well known, elaborates the political theory of the third phase and aims at mutual legitimacy in the context of a democracy of alternating against blocked democracy. A elaboration, his, that is destabilising to the internal and international balances. And yet, precisely because we are in another world, the problem of a political dialectic that moves in the direction of a complete democracy, of a functioning democracy still remains topical and unresolved. I have an objection to Mr Donno's remarks, also in relation to an intervention, which I consider very serious, held in the House by my colleague, Mr Cozzolino, who is a member of the 5 Star Movement. Precisely because Italian democracy is a democracy that still sees the presence of anti-system forces, forces that prevent the full deployment of a completed democracy, the lesson of Moro remains current. Then, next to the historical-political judgment, which can illuminate the first of the Republican story but also the...then, which can clarify the unwritten blank pages and clarify the dark and dark pages, it is absolutely consistent and it is absolutely linear the intention to create a new Commission of Inquiry. A Commission which recognises the specific nature of the Moro case, which must certainly be examined in the more general context of the tension strategy, but which must be considered with particular attention. From here, exactly, the motivation for which we do not intend to propose a renewed edition of the previous parliamentary committees of inquiry on terrorism in Italy and the causes of the failure to identify those responsible for the massacres, but to revive a focused attention, addressed to the case Moro out of the clamor of a often distorting and misleading advertising. I will not make any references here which I reserve the right to propose in the heart of the Commission's work (if I have been asked to be a part of it). We therefore come to the final answer to the question: why a Commission? Beyond the fact that it is not worth mentioning the fact that many of the exponents of that time have fallen (because if this argument were valid, the search for historians and the commitment of politicians would no longer be valuable), it is up to us to complete the unfinished work of our predecessors. We believe that it is appropriate, even necessary, to proceed with the establishment of this Commission: because not everything has been clarified, because answers can be found and because new truths can emerge that can illuminate the history of our country. Moreover, the PD has published a dossier listing a number of questions that refer to circumstances, facts and events that certainly deserve an answer. In fact, and here I conclude, the truth does not have a deadline. Truth sets you free. The truth is greater than any profit. It is worth the quote that Senator Gotor appropriately sealed for his intervention. But there is a prophecy, which Aldo Moro pronunciations, which in my opinion is permanent and current: "I will be there (...) as an irreducible point of dispute and alternative." A point that, I believe, needs to be resolved politically. Then I wonder: can politics do without the truth? And can the truth ignore memory? I think it's worth the perennial warning: look again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u18	He is registered to speak Senator Luigi Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u19	Mr President, I am speaking on a personal basis, not by committing my Group to this bill. The reasons are those outlined here by Senator Carraro. We already have too many parliamentary committees of inquiry. We've done too much, and we've already got too many. On the contrary, there may sometimes be suspicion that the Presidents and then the parliamentary committees of inquiry will first take place. But there is also another and more fundamental reason why I am opposed to the establishment of this Commission. I believe that, on the kidnapping and killing of Aldo Moro and his escort, the judiciary has worked well. The judiciary has found the culprits; it has given the punishments that were to be given according to the law; it has given all the reasons that public opinion - I say this to the rapporteur of this bill - needed to know and know. The other reason is that all those who participated in the kidnapping and killing of Aldo Moro and his escort were insured at the prison patriae, atoned for a long time and said everything they had to say. They were certainly not reckless and certainly not puppets. Another reason I am opposed to this is that there have been no new substantial revelations that can complement the knowledge acquired in recent years by other committees of inquiry, the judiciary and the many-time repeated journalistic investigations. I do not believe, then, that, as the rapporteur has said, a Commission of this nature gives greater credibility to our institutions, but I believe that it is part of the permanent research on the backstory and instrumental aspects of the events that have taken place. I believe that the historical truth must certainly acquire it, but that the truth that each of us wants to seek to justify our own political choice instead gives a ghastly reading of the hard years of terrorism that our country has gone through. Nor do I think it is correct to ascertain and approach this terrorist action well-known to the terrorist massacres of another sign, starting with that of Piazza Fontana, as we read and as the rapporteur said in the presentation of this bill. For these reasons, I declare my vote against this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u20	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u21	Mr President, I asked to speak at the very last moment, because I would like to take advantage of two circumstances: that you are chairing the sitting today and the subject we are dealing with. I would simply like to point out that I would like to use the same sensitivity as I did to ask for a Commission of Inquiry to be set up on facts dating back 36 years ago, pointing out that there is a proposal from me to set up a Commission of Inquiry in relation to a case which I believe is much more recent and very interesting with regard to our country: I am referring to the fate of the Maroons. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Carraro]] I would like, through your presidency, to see the proposal to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the affair of the Maroons as soon as possible in this House. [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u22	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u23	Mr President, I confess that yesterday, when I learned that a draft law on the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry was to be discussed today, I expressed all my scepticism to myself. I wondered, in other words, what sense could a Commission of inquiry have in place thirty-six years after the facts and when - alas - only for the passing of the years, most of the protagonists of that time probably died. Then, being in the Chamber, I listened to the speeches, those in favour and those against, and with the thought, albeit quickly, I returned to those papers of the Moro trial, of the Red Brigades that were part of my professional baggage when I supported the accusation in the Moro-ter trial, when I supported the charge in the armed insurrection trial of the Red Brigades, when, mainly, I supported the accusation in finding the cards in Via Monte Snowy in 1990. When I thought about those papers, I quickly realized the dissatisfaction I had in 1993 when, Mr President, I was assigned with you to the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor and therefore needed to leave the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome. Unsatisfaction that was all connected to so many dark points, to so many unconfirmed hypotheses that they had, precisely, related as a whole to the Moro affair and to the more general story of terrorism in Italy. We all remember the historical era, the specific moment in which that tragedy occurred. It was the moment when the Communist Party in Italy was released for the first time. Basically, the Berlin Wall was about to collapse in Italy precisely for the clearance of the Italian Communist Party. In returning with the thought in those times I wonder, for example, if it had been just a coincidence - hypothesis - or instead there was a real correlation between the tragedy of Via Fani and the attack - fortunately not successful - that Enrico Berlinguer had to suffer in Bulgaria. Going with the thought to those years, I still wonder if the history of the lake of the Duchess or of the false de "Unità" with reference to their subjective protagonists could not arouse some singular hypothesis in relation to the partial identity of those protagonists with reference to the alleged identification of the authors of the Bologna massacre of 1980. And again, Mr President and Senators, when the cards of Via Monte were discovered in 1990 Snowy in Milan and in an abyss of a radiator we discovered the photocopy of the Moro memorial (the photocopy, not the original), who had, like me, the responsibility to go to carry out those investigations the first thing he did was compare the memorial of Via Monte Snowy 1990 with the one found twelve years before always at via Monte Nevoso. Strong was the difference between the one found in 1978 and the one found in 1990. Nor do we think - I say this for completeness - that the memorial of Via Monte Snowy found in 1990 was put later or was specially forgotten because in that cave were found also 10 million lire for which the terrorists were condemned for slander, having accused the carabinieri of having taken possession of that money later found. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, when we talk about the futility of a Commission of Inquiry which, of course, is not a judicial inquiry but is aimed at things other than ascertaining individual responsibilities, in making that comparison between via Monte Nevoso in 1990 and via Monte Snowy of 1978 it must be considered that many were the questions that arose and that were all faithfully reported in the requirement. Why did the Red Brigades in 1978, being in possession of the original, not mention the KGB funds to the Communist Party or the CIA to Christian Democracy? Wasn't that for them, at that time, a subject of very strong political propaganda? Why were the Red Brigades of that period in 1978, even though they had the original, whose photocopy was found in 1990, not tempted to use those other parts of the Moro memorial in which reference was made to the Stay Behind structure, namely Gladio? Be careful, Mr President, I do not want to enter into the controversy that later referred to Gladio, but in the papers of the memorial Moro, the integral one, there was a structure born and raised in Italy after 1953, all in anti-communist function. Then, of course, the history of those years also allowed gold medals of the Garibaldi Brigade, of the Resistance evidently, to be part of the structure Stay Behind especially in Friuli-Venezia Giulia to protect the eastern border of Italy, in the fear that there might be an occupation by the East. Mr President and Senators, do you know that in the 1990 papers there is a small passage that we found on the weekly magazine "OP-Osservatore Politico" by Mino Pecorelli in early December 1978, and Mino Pecorelli was murdered in February 1979? Do you know, Mr President and Senators, that at the end of December, a Navy SIOS agent referred precisely to certain confidencies had by Licio Gelli precisely with regard to the abduction of Moro? And above all, Mr President and Senators, do you have any knowledge of the full excerpts of the Moro memorial, that of 1990, so unknown before 1990, are they the subject of two pages of a book written by an officer of the Carabinieri at the time in service of the barracks "Pastrengo" in Milan? Do you think that in the papers of the various Moro processes of the Red Brigades and what else there are not so many dark points in order to moments of contact between the Red Brigades and, without questioning apparatuses or other, singular characters, possibly close to certain apparatuses of the State? In the papers of those trials you will find the voices of diplomacy that indicated the political interests of the time. And it's not true that they spoke: Moretti didn't say a word, and he was responsible for the international relations of the Red Brigades. Do you really think that it is quite clear, for example, that Senzani's position within the movementist structure of the Red Brigades or that certain points of contact of Professor Senzani do not deserve, in a different place from the judicial one, a political deepening? Mr President, I do not know whether this Commission of inquiry will achieve the objectives set for it (I hope so), but I believe that, despite the passing of time, we need to set it up. We need to understand, for one of the reasons mentioned in the course of an intervention, what the history of this country would have been if the tragedy of Via Fani had not happened. We must not be afraid of the truth. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Liuzzi]] If we move forward with the idea of maintaining and delivering to our children an even stronger democracy, this becomes so only if it is based on truth and if it makes less opaque even suggestive hypotheses that can be done in the absence of a complete deepening. We need to overcome all the misunderstandings that are basically the basis of the last thirty years of our policy. I don't want to use this moment to broaden the conversation. However, without taboos the Commission of Inquiry into the Moro case, and I also believe that, without taboos, other committees of inquiry should be set up. Only at a time when we, through a free and in-depth search for the many dark points of the last thirty years, will be able to free ourselves of misunderstandings and suggestions, can we finally have a peaceful political climate, within which the left and right will carry forward their ideas and values, but in a due mutual respect. I say this not because you feel the need enough Pharisees to imagine hugging us all. At my age - I have children who are now entering the world of work and who will begin to know the difficulties of life - I seriously feel the need to make my very small contribution to a future democracy that is strong and true, and a true democracy cannot be based on lies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u24	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u25	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u26	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u27	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u28	Mr President, I too do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u29	I inform you that the Presidency has received, and is in distribution, the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on draft law No 1402, which will be published in the annex to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u32	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to declare the vote in favour of Rule 5. I would like to take the opportunity of you chairing the sitting, Mr Grasso, to point out that Article 5 provides for access, in addition to the maps of judicial investigations, to the maps of the parliamentary committees of inquiry of past legislation. These include certainly the Commission of Inquiry into the Mitrokhin dossier, which also concerned itself with the abduction of Aldo Moro and the related issues and which in turn inherited the Commission's cards. I would therefore like to make a request, Mr President. In considering this matter to be useful - and I refer here to the speeches made earlier by Senator Palma - I would ask you to consider the possibility of desecrating the maps of the Mitrokhin Commission - which are within the competence of the Senate, since the President of that Commission was a senator - also following the fact that in the other branch of Parliament, as it turns out, a few weeks ago the desecuting of the maps of the Commission of Inquiry on the case of the death of Ilaria Alpi has been announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u35	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, with regard to Article 5, our Group would also like to stress the need which Mr Malan has pointed out and which Mr Maurizio Sacconi, the leader of the New Right Centre, represented to you in a letter written two weeks ago. I intend to say that, precisely for the reasons put forward in general debate, especially in the fine speech of Senator Palma (who perhaps among us is the one who has more knowledge of how, when and how much the Moro affair took place in the jurisdiction), a very important junction has been identified in that link between the Commission massacres, presided over by my colleague Pellegrino, which could not even reach a final report, and the subsequent Mitrokhin Commission. It is precisely this type of documentation that makes it necessary, on the part of the Senate Presidency, to make these maps available to the Commission that we will set up, precisely because of the prerogatives referred to in Article 5, which are then the ones that justify the proposal of a new Parliamentary Commission than the one then presided over by Senator Pellegrino. This Commission was faced with a wall of incommunicability - for foreign policy, for the archival regime and for many other things - by then democratic Germany. It is precisely for this reason that the issue of continuity with the maps of the Mitrokhin Commission is raised, and it would be appropriate for the new Commission to have access to it from its inception. That is why, Mr President, our Group has the opportunity to insist on the request that our Parent Company has already made to you in writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u36	I would also like to point out to Senator Malan that a written request has already been made to this effect, as Senator Compagna said, and that it will be evaluated at the first meeting of the Presidency Council, which is responsible for deciding on its eligibility. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1402 and 1030 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1402 and 1030 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1402 and 1030 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 8. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1402 and 1030
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u39	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will abstain from the final vote, because we believe that now, thirty-six years after the events, after thirty-one years by the Commission on the massacre of Via Fani presided over by Senator Mario Valiante, thirteen years by the Commission of massacres presided over by Senator Giovanni Pellegrino, eight years after the Mitrokhin dossier and after a mountain of judgments on the subject, there is no need to revive a Commission of inquiry on the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro. In other words, we believe that there is no need to arrive, through the Commission of Inquiry, at an official historical truth, first of all because there is no need for an official historical truth: historical truth is already known and told, and what remains to be told is precisely the task of historical research. Any legal passages to be clarified would not concern a Commission of Inquiry, but the judiciary. A Commission of Inquiry into the Moro case, in our opinion, would have nothing to investigate, so it would be useless and could even be counterproductive, because it would end up mummifying knowledge once again and would also be unjustified and costly. For these reasons, our Group will abstain. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u42	Barani (GAL). Mr President, our Group, unlike the previous speaker, will vote in favour of the draft law. Although thirty-six years have passed, in fact, the story deserves to be further deepened because, dear colleagues, it is not true that the story Moro belongs to a remote past: the story Moro has conditioned all the Italian events since 1978 onwards, and some protagonists of that period are still protagonists in this period. I quote one, but I could quote a dozen, and I think the Commission will have to hear them: Romano Prodi, who was even a candidate for the Presidency of the Republic less than a year ago (sometimes return). We must not forget that Francesco Cossiga, Minister of the Interior of the period in which the kidnapping took place, followed by the death of Aldo Moro, was President of the Republic. It seems that all those who acted at that time, at that time, then had recognitions, or attempts at recognitions, or, as in the case of Francesco Cossiga, even came to the most important office of the State. I say this because you cannot escape that famous spirit session of April 2nd, 1978. Now I, as a doctor, with all the good that I want to all, dear colleagues, do not believe that four, five or six important characters, from economists, such as Mario Baldassarri and Alberto Clo, to others, after a dinner, start making the dish: they agreed, they knew where the prison of Aldo Moro was and they carried on this ignoble farce. At that time a serious judiciary - and here perhaps, as a guarantor, I would have shared the preventive prison - would have to put them in order to be told by whom and how they had come to know the precise location of the prison of Aldo Moro. Not to go to an acquaintance, that Umberto Cavina, head of press office of Mr Zaccagnini, and tell him the farce of the saucer that he had repeatedly given via Gradoli as an indication, along with Bolsena and Viterbo! Colleagues, in short, the Moro affair deserves some more consideration, deserves the truth: it must come out. Let's not forget that the then leader of the 'ndrangheta had already reported a hot zone around Via Gradoli. Mr Moro's own wife had repeatedly asked the investigators - and she said so in front of the Commission - to go to Via Gradoli, because everyone knew he was there. If that is true, as it is true, it will be necessary for Mr Prodi, who in the second Commission refused to come and testify that he was engaged in the government crisis in 1998, to finally tell us the truth. It is equally important to have the truth from the former DIGOS inspector Enrico Rossi, who claims that he will speak only to the prosecutors, Parliament and the Commission of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, this Commission is therefore important, precisely because we must try to understand who wanted that historical compromise not to be made, who had an interest in preventing this encounter between the Christian Democrats and the communist souls. Above all, we must understand, colleagues, and I say this with some participation, because at the end of the intervention I will tell you about a meeting on the subject that I had at Hammamet with Bettino Craxi, who was the secretary of that party that did not want the death of Moro, who wanted to treat, unlike the Christian Democrats and Communists of the time, because he knew that freeing Moro would come out the truth, that truth written in several memorials, that were found, as President Palma said, behind refrigerators or radiators. Let me ask you a question. When the machine gun was found that killed Aldo Moro, at the home of Giuliana Conforto, daughter of the then head of the Soviet Secret Service, such "Dario" together with other documentation, what would have happened if in 1979 it had been discovered that two brigatists kidnapped and the machine gun that had killed Aldo Moro had been hosted not in the home of the daughter of the head of the KGB in Italy, but in that of the daughter of the head of the CIA? The revolution would come. There would be a civil war. Instead, it was tried to cover everything because it came from a militant wing of the Communist Party that tried to destabilise Italy. This Commission, in addition to Aldo Moro, must refer to the other coups in Italy, including the media-judicial one of 1992 against Bettino Craxi, the one of 1994 against Silvio Berlusconi and the one of 2011 against Berlusconi. These events have one common thread: they are the coups that have been made in Italy. When I visited Hammamet on October 25, 1999 at the exile and statesman Bettino Craxi, talking about Aldo Moro Craxi was a river in the middle. If I am a member of this Commission, I will be able to report and therefore be able to make a contribution. If I am not a member of it, I will try to deliver a memo. I remember that he told me that he would receive Francesco Cossiga's visit at the most after a week because they had to continue to talk about what happened to Aldo Moro in 1978. He also explained to me that they were finally about to help bring out the truth. Alas, Francesco Cossiga is gone, but Bettino Craxi failed to make that memory because a couple of months later he suddenly died. The importance of this Commission of Inquiry is therefore current because, as I said, current, after thirty-six years, are some key characters of that period that are still protagonists. One of these is Romano Prodi, who must finally tell us the truth about why he wanted Moro to die and did not reveal, since he knew, where he was at that time in prison. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u45	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I shall state, albeit in a telegraphic manner, the reasons underlying the vote in favour of the Per l'Italia Group at the birth of this Commission. I have listened very carefully in particular to the reasons for those who believe that the Commission would explode a role which is not appropriate because it would overlap with what the judiciary has already done and has what historians will be able to do. In fact, this Commission has its deepest meaning than the simplest question: why Moro? This question has never been answered. Why Moro, who didn't have a key role in the ganglia of institutions' lives at the time? Why Moro, who was at that moment alone and simply the president of Christian Democracy? Why Moro, in light of the matrix of his political vision? There are no longer in this room Giulio Andreotti, Francesco Cossiga and Emilio Colombo. I believe that the action of this Commission can also restore some of the honour to their history and to the role they have played in those tragic circumstances, characterized by the lack of communication, which certainly there was, among those who held top roles in the life of the State, while restoring at the same time strength and honor also to the role played on that occasion by the party of Christian Democracy. However, as has already been said, to ascertain the truth better the Commission of Inquiry than a spiritual session. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] It has more tools, more ability to get into the matter, and yet a Commission of Inquiry remains less ambiguous than a spiritual session to have the honor of truth. To conclude, we must above all give an answer to our children, to our children, and perhaps also to those 17-year-olds who, like me, were lost in 1978 in view of the thought that the institutions were the master and not the guarantors of our lives. Perhaps an answer is due to us to fully understand that the institutions have a role that cannot be eluded and that must be put at stake by setting up this Commission of Inquiry. [[Applause from Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u48	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in declaring the Group for the Autonomies' vote in favour of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry and in particular of the reasons put forward by the rapporteur, Mr Gotor, and Mr Palma's very valuable speech, I would like to reiterate a concept which has already been expressed in this House about the need to say that the search for truth has no time limit and that the truth, at any time, is always an important fact. I would remind you that the socialist positions during the seizure of Moro, in particular that of President Craxi, represented a different point of view from that of the majority of the time and that the perplexities, doubts and anxieties expressed in that affair were certainly derived from the human affair, but also from the political questions that posed the issue. The following facts have marked the history of our country and must be reconnected and reviewed in the light of the evolution of time and also of nature, in the sense that the deaths - excused the cynicism that I express at this time - do not always represent a negative fact: they often open the scenario of truth and can more easily lead us to the attainment of the same. This Commission of Inquiry must have this capacity: to examine and review past events, documents that have been archived and that have not had definitive answers, so that our country can give that interpretation of the events of the past that have strongly affected even in the successive phases and that can probably further influence our political story. I therefore repeat the need for this Commission of inquiry to be set up quickly, although I do have some concerns about its plethoracity: perhaps a smaller number of components would have allowed for a greater ease of activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u51	Bisinella (LN-Aut). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before any other argument, let us get rid of any doubts that might arise from the words that I will say: the North-Autonomous League Group will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration for the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry. We will vote in favour, but we cannot fail to raise some concerns, first of all by saying that we will always be watchmen on the progress of the Commission's work. How important it is to emphasize the political, institutional and human figure of Aldo Moro today, we have made this clear even before, in the general debate. What we care about is above all the deep respect for the citizens, for our communities, which must always distinguish anyone who passionately decides to put himself at the service of the institutions, always in search of the common good. However, we also highlight concerns. Thirty-five years have passed since the abduction and murder of Aldo Moro and still there are doubts, dark sides, events that are intertwined with life and the political scenario, even today, and the institutions of this country that need to be clarified. We wonder why in this country, for this, as for other events, we always have to face such dark episodes. We hope that this Commission will not remain yet another Commission of inquiry into paper, self-referential, which only creates privileged positions for some, as we have already seen on other occasions. The same number of components seems to us to be excessive and not in line with the need to speed up and arrive quickly at the conclusion of the investigation. These are the fundamental concerns that move us to have a critical spirit. Returning to the Moro case, which sees us here discussing, it is clear that if it had been exclusively a dramatic event linked to a violent degeneration of the armed struggle against the institutions, there would have been no interest, after all these years, in predicting, through a specific legislative proposal, the establishment of yet another Commission of Inquiry. So, unfortunately, it is not. The Moro case has still dark aspects, as I said, so aberrant that they directly involve characters of the political life of this country, some still in activity. It cannot be said that many aspects still need to be examined in detail. We all have a duty to do, once and for all, clarity. So don't miss this opportunity, I said it before, and I want to reiterate it now, to give the answers that citizens and society demand. Let us have the courage to clearly unscrew the most hidden aspects that are still of significance today. This Commission really explains the responsibilities, albeit indirect, attributable to the state apparatus and has the courage to read the complicity, direct and indirect relations, that the political parties present in the constitutional arc maintained with violent or terrorist organizations, in order to be able to say why the state on that occasion was so involved in not wanting to open negotiations with the terrorists. Let us make names and surnames of those responsible, and then this Commission will really make sense. If you decide to act like this, then you will have to produce with every effort a job that really leads to the truth and that contributes to turn the page, without prejudices, without barricading yourself in the secret of state, without the fear of making the institutions waver under the weight of responsibility established, finding also the courage to shout that whoever called the red brigadeists "compañeros who err" has been guilty of a serious responsibility and must be considered accomplice of what happened. This Commission does not do justice only for Aldo Moro and his family, but restore with this investigation dignity to all the victims of the season of the lead years, starting from the servants of the State, from the institutional offices, from the Forces of order to the young militants, perhaps killed by bieco ideological hatred. If that happens, then the Commission will have done what it had to do, and it will have done so in this parliamentary term. Let us not miss this opportunity. Let us also have the courage to be determined to clarify why other states were interested in the Moro affair, because our country needs a full and absolute truth, not half truth. We have an obligation to make this matter clear in depth, also because of the honest commitment that many Members of Parliament, in this and in the past, are putting into this investigation. Discovering the truth must not be the interest of a political party or some political group, because it is the truth that the country, our Republic and history claim. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Mixed-SEL Group will vote in favour of the establishment of this new Commission of Inquiry into the Moro case. We know perfectly well and understand - partly because it is also a bit ours - the scepticism that has accompanied the debate on the establishment of a new Commission, since we know very well the maps of the Commission and the other Commissions. However, we know that it is a fundamental duty of this Parliament to try to reach, after so many years, precisely thirty-six, that truth which has been concealed on such a painful affair, which has marked and certainly changed the history of this country in part. Of course, after all these years many of the protagonists of that time are no longer there, they are dead, but perhaps we have the possibility, after thirty-six years, to really get to the truth, through a greater detachment and, we hope, the ability to overcome the opacityes, the secrets of state and everything that has prevented it until now. Perhaps the new rules on state secrecy and declassification procedures will also allow us to acquire absolutely important elements and with this Commission of Inquiry we can finally find the ban of the skein, which we hope. The debate that took place today, moreover, shows that it is still alive and deep, even in those who like me and many others in that 16 March 1978 were very young, the memory of those facts, and brings to the attention the positions and visions of that time and the clash that in some way there was, even very strong, within the State and in Christian Democracy and the positions that emerged, that some of the Senators colleagues just recalled, between those who stood in favour of the negotiation and those who immediately (the majority of political forces) stood on the clear refusal of any negotiation. As can also be seen from today's debate, that choice, which had not been made for other cases, such as the Cyril case, left and left not only doubts, but almost the conviction that it depended on political decisions and perhaps on the fear of having President Moro freed, with all that could have resulted in so many aspects and for so many truths then emerged from the memorial. Mr President, I mentioned this morning's debate to say how alive the debate between us is and how much is still marked by the positions, conviction and drama of Italian history; in front of everything that has happened in these years of massacres this is still a country that has never given its citizens the truth. I hope - and we all very much hope so - that this will not be yet another Commission of Inquiry in which some continuity, even in the past, will return to being present and perhaps hindering the attainment of the truth. We really hope that this will be, not only the umpteenth Commission, but a new Commission of Inquiry, which will finally be able to ascertain the truth, complicity and opacity, which obviously have not been exhausted, even by those who have engaged in the history of terrorism in our country. We share the time limit allowed in the bill, which is two years: it is a time that can give us the opportunity to actually do a quick job. However, I should like to repeat my wish that this may indeed be a committee of inquiry in which we can draw on the documents which can still be used and on the investigations, including judicial investigations, which did not, as you know, take all the necessary steps to achieve the truth. It is not only a historical truth: it is political truth, and also judicial truth. I think we owe it to Aldo Moro, we owe it to his family and above all also to the political history, to the political convictions of each of us and, above all, to this country. We really hope, as we remember before, it was also done with the Alpine story, that we can close a very long page of the history of our country, which was a story full of complicity and opacity, also by the apparatuses of the State, which until now have prevented, on the massacres as well as on the story of Aldo Moro today at our examination, the attainment of the truth. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u57	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much of our debate this morning resonated with the word 'truth'. Frankly, in a parliamentary debate, this seems to me to be a word, if not improper, quite incestuous: in a free Parliament, every truth can only be relative, in the sense that it must always be revocable, in doubt or error, by the freedom to oppose it or another truth or another kind of truth. From this point of view, it is then good to clear out the field from improper (in my opinion) obstacles that would be constituted by the enormous distance of years. More than thirty years have passed since the Moor affair: this, in some respects, is very important, but in some other respects it is irrelevant. Senator Nitto Palma, in a very beautiful speech, recalled how the many processes that have been there and that have reached that other truth (the truth of the case or, better, the truth of the case) have remained in credit or in debt of information, for example on the international profile of the links of the Red Brigades. If I didn't listen badly, Nitto Palma said that neither Moretti, the chief responsible for the international relations of the Red Brigades, nor Senzani, responsible for the more movementistic Red Brigades (the sociologists said at the time) and their international relations, said absolutely nothing on this subject, in which - instead - they have emerged several times, even after the tragedy of Aldo Moro had been consumed, aspects not lacking interest and all worthy of investigation. In the 13th legislature these aspects were entrusted to a Commission called massacres (not to repeat the bis of previous legislatures on the story of Moro), prestigiously presided over by Senator Pellegrino. Well, we have not even reached a report, but only a stimulating book by President Pellegrino. And why couldn't Pilgrim have a relationship? Because, precisely on the profile of international relations, he was opposed to a wall of non-expedit, of non-communicability by countries, such as Germany, Czechoslovakia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which repeatedly emerged in the survey on what are sometimes still called the so-called Red Brigades. From here, Mr President, I allowed myself, when I voted on Article 5, to remind you - I thank you for the answer you have given me, let us say, for a decision by the next Presidency Council - the letter in which our fellow Parent Company, Senator Maurizio Sacconi, recalls this very important need for publicity in the link between the Mitrokhin maps and the maps of this Commission that we are going to set up. So the first world, demi monde, from which there has been no glimmer of response (maybe you can't have it, I don't know: the Commission will ensure it) is the world Mitrokhin, the world, to be even more concrete, than that beautiful film set in the then East Germany. It was called "The Lives of Others" and is a movie from about ten years ago. Then there is that chain of Arab countries in which the so-called Moro praise, that is, the immediate exchangeability of so-called political prisoners through the Services, through the National Oil and Gas Administration and through the connections between one and the other, would have been in force in relations with our country. Here too there have been new facts: many of the rulers of those countries are no longer there, and some of our colleagues have even told us that wonderful events have taken place in Arab countries. Well, the subject for a search for these international profiles, in the sense that my colleague Nitto Palma referred to, is all there is. And, out of loyalty to this House and to my colleagues, my state of mind at the beginning of this parliamentary term would have been that of Senator Malan: rest in peace. But when I saw that a single-chamber Commission was proposed to the House of Deputies only for Members of Parliament and I could not find more compelling reasons than the fact that the President was particularly sensitive as a native of Maglie, I was led, together with my colleague, Mr Gotor, who I thank, and others, to present draft law No 1030 in order to make it at least bicameral. In this regard, objections have been raised by colleagues from the Lega Nord Group and appropriate and interesting Autonomous Groups. It has been said that a Commission of 60 people is too cumbersome. I know. But the limit of our parliamentary mechanism is to guarantee representativeness to all groups. Compared to the truths of the case, we find ourselves operating in a territory in which there is no risk of competitiveness, of inappropriate conflict. The political profiles are all those related to the international location of Italy in those explicit and hidden years, and as such are of great interest even more than thirty years away. As far as the profile of relations with the memory of Aldo Moro of his party (Christian Democracy), the Socialist Party and its leader Bettino Craxi is concerned, I believe that any conflict is now quite inappropriate, unjust and ingenerous. Mr Craxi and his party had good reasons for humanity and for the sense of the State; he had just as good reasons for the sense of the State (it was said then, Prussian, but it was said in the sense and with offensive terminology) that Christian democracy felt stronger, in an affair in which five servants of the State died, the prestige not of an abstract reason of the State, but of the reasons of the State. I therefore hope that the Commission will be able to approach with just humanity and with the right respect to these aspects of the drama then underway and to assert a greater critical spirit of investigation and investigation if there will be new profiles of knowledge inherent in the international relations of Italy then. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u60	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why are we still investigating the Moro case today? We have accumulated in the years multiple hypotheses on the matter but also different, important confirmations. Controversial, to the limit of the absurd, is the hypothesis that the Services had activated to treat in the Middle East the liberation of Aldo Moro before even he was kidnapped. But other more solid elements support the disturbing presence of members of the Secret Services on the scene of the seizure with the task - according to a written testimony - to protect, even, the operation, if not to participate directly in the ambush, and, again, that the Secret Services had elements at the place of imprisonment or that indications in this sense were ignored by the Minister of the Interior of that time, Francesco Cossiga. The role of the Mafia, the 'ndrangheta', the United States, the Soviet Union and Israel would also be to be confirmed. While it is certain that most of the members of the committee of experts wanted by Minister Cossiga were years later on the list of the Masonic loggia P2 by Licio Gelli. Some are the very heavy accusations made by Aldo Moro himself to his party comrades and to the left for abandoning him. He accused the expert committee of trying to discredit, assuming a brainwash on Aldo Moro. But it is evident that he, as well as the Red Brigades, was the victim of political responsibilities and convergent inertias that did not prevent the seizure and did not seek liberation. Cliché then repeated in other political assassinations: the State knew, the State ignored, the State turned its back guiltfully, if not favored the murderers. We saw how the mob could approach the General Dalla Chiesa, Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino. Just in these days we have come to know of shocking elements about the Biagi murder on behalf of former minister Claudio Scajola, who called it a "breaker" and did not keep his escort. The escort: how many politicians enjoy it? Which politicians enjoy it? Aldo Moro became a target - according to the brigadeist Moretti - precisely because he was less protected by the police than Giulio Andreotti. Moro was also killed because politics turned its back on him; he wrote it. Finally, according to many, he was killed to avoid the change that at that stage identified with the birth of a DC-PCI government. And it is bitter to note that today Renzi-Berlusconi is moving on the electoral law - the words of former Minister Mauro - and on the reforms to kill the historical change that we citizens have begun in Parliament. Now, thirty-six years later, we too would like to be able to find a definitive truth, give certainty and fix criminal and political responsibilities; but after repeated trials and committees of inquiry have left a substantial void, what can we hope for? And also, what must we fear? It is not the new or presumed elements that can offer a different confidence, but they would be a different political will and new models in exploring Parliament's power of control and investigation. Instead, the Mitrokhin Commission resolved in nothing. He had inherited all the documentation produced by the previous Commission of Inquiry, which had still been extinguished without a final report, victim of the cross vetoes that pushed towards a more favourable reading of the facts to one or the other political matrix. The full name of that Commission was: Bicameral Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism, the massacres and the causes of the non-identification of perpetrators. Then, perhaps, we should set up a Commission on the non-identification of the truth by the bicameral committees! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A new Commission of Inquiry, in order to have greater credibility, should be more agile and composed of a number of Members of Parliament who are really content, but at least not more than one per Parliamentary Group in both the House and the Senate. We had asked and obtained that the number of members was at least limited to 20, even to contain the related expenditure. All taken back. We will have a Commission of 60 members with proportional representation to the seats, not even the voters. So, what political vote can we expect? What political resolution can we expect in a majority conditioned by the Democratic Party's representation in the House? Then there is the doubt that a real political will to seek the truth is not so convinced. The fear arises that the intention, especially for the political heir of that Christian Democracy and that Communist Party, is rather to look for elements to build a self-absolute theory or even to be used to throw away from the new findings that we are talking about today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and eventually seal to history an incomplete truth or, worse, artifact. At least, it is simply conceivable, in the face of the many constraints and the lack of will, that we do not come to a synthesis, that the facts remain without a guilty person and the guilty, forever, evade the judgment of history. Then, rather, it is the judiciary that investigates by reopening the trial, if there really are new elements, as the Moro family has asked. If then the politics is so thirsty for truth, it should have more consideration for the drafts of law than the Movement 5 Stars has advanced for the constitution of as many five Commissions of investigation: on the disaster of the ship Moby Prince; on the scandals of the reconstruction after the earthquake that has hit L'Aquila and the Abruzzo in 2009; on the chasm of the costs of the agencies and the societies participated or controlled from State, Regions, Provinces and Municipalities; on the plan and the realization of the railway line TAV Turin-Lion; on the political-financial scandal (today that perhaps you are a little more reassured from the electoral point of view) of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They are hot and topical and urgent. And if the Moro affair is a painful wound to democracy, the Commissions we have proposed concern facts that have caused the direct death of thousands of citizens, namely the waste of state resources. In the period of recession, they are considered a crime that affects society, with equally fatal results due to the loss of spending on prevention and health, the abandonment of entrepreneurs, health and quality of life in Val di Susa. However, since this will is not glimpsed, the 5 Star Movement cannot legitimize an operation that presents certain costs and results very, very doubtful (we hope not), perhaps even already written. Gentlemen, we need a different step. For this - and only for this - the 5 Star Movement will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u63	ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry which will deal, thirty-six years later, with the massacre of Via Fani and the kidnapping and death sentence of the President of Christian Democracy, Aldo Moro. Parliament, with this vote, will for the third time come back to investigate one of the most intrigued mysteries of republican history. As has already been mentioned, there are two precedents. The first parliamentary commission of inquiry that tried to shed light on the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro was established in November 1979, and were presidents, in succession, Oddo Biasini, Dante Schietroma and Mario Valiante. Politicians such as Leonardo Sciascia, Ugo Pecchioli, Raniero La Valle, Luciano Violante, Alfredo Biondi and Egidio Sterpa participated. In 1988, during the 10th legislature, Parliament again investigated the Moro case, setting up the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into terrorism in Italy and the causes of the failure to identify those responsible for the massacres. Now, at such a long time, perhaps we will be able to carry out an investigation with greater objectivity and impartiality, in a calm and free political context from those ideological prejudices and conditions that, in the past, did not allow us to reach satisfactory conclusions. Despite the celebration of five criminal trials, the Moro case unfortunately still presents too many dark and disturbing sides. Even recent and resounding revelations on alleged involvement of state structures, even when the escort was seized and killed, deserve proper verification and deepening. It will also be possible to shed light on the disturbing insinuations contained in Ferdinando Imposimato's book "The 55 days that changed Italy," with a preface by Antonio Esposito, better known to the chronicles for being the talkative and long-winded president of the working section of the Cassation that pronounced the sentence of condemnation of Silvio Berlusconi in the Mediaset trial. It is true that many of the main protagonists of that season, from Cossiga to Andreotti, from Craxi to Berlinguer to Zaccagnini, have in the meantime failed, and therefore the Commission will not be able to hear any direct testimonies. However, we can count on the archives of the Secret Services of the Eastern countries, from the archives of the Czech Republic to the Stasi, which in the meantime have become consultable, as suggested by my colleague Senator Gotor. Also the foreign interferences, the international aspects, the cold war that was fought in Europe, the Palestinian question, which saw our country as the protagonist of controversial agreements with the PLO, which are all the background to the Moro case, in my opinion they will have to be the subject of in-depth analysis and will find in the current context more comprehensive and convincing answers than those received in the past. In fact, I am convinced that the Moro affair and its tragic epilogue can be framed and have been conditioned by the international context in which Italy was at the time, and therefore deserve to be the subject of a new parliamentary committee of inquiry; as well as, quite similarly, a parliamentary committee of inquiry should, in my opinion, deal with the most recent external interferences on Italian politics, emerged from the testimonies of authoritative protagonists of European and international politics. Forza Italia will therefore provide every contribution so that the whole truth comes to the surface and so we can close a painful page of our recent history. We owe it to the Moro family, to the families of the many victims of terrorism in those terrible years of lead, but we also owe it to the new generations, who are waiting for examples of morality, credibility and transparency from politics. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u66	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to re-read the pages of the debate held in the Chamber of Deputies on 16 March 1978 and found these words in those pages: "We all, I believe, have the awareness of living the most dramatic hour of our Republic. After sacrificing dozens of lives of citizens who did their duty (...) these terrorist gangs have reached the top of our democratic political life. With Aldo Moro they, these bandits, have not only struck the president of Christian democracy, but they have also struck a man who, because of his high moral and intellectual qualities, for his ability to look far away, to see the lights and shadows of our democratic life, for having been able to measure the past and predict the future, represents precisely the summit of our democratic commitment, the very substance of our dialectic. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let us think about it: where could terrorist gangs be more effectively targeted? What could they hit further than what they hit? (...) There is no other goal to reach. The target to hit the state was reached. These are the words of Ugo La Malfa, not Benigno Zaccagnini or another DC leader. It's an acknowledgment, not an agiografic memory. These words paint with great effectiveness the importance and political weight of Aldo Moro. He was not alone, with Berlinguer, the man of national solidarity and of the historic alliance between the DC and PCI, but he was, even earlier and prejudiceally, the man who had made - together with others, but with a never marginal influence - the history of the first thirty years of the Republic. Not only do the pages of the Constitutional Assembly testify to the contribution of ideas and solutions that the very young professor gave, with original contributions and with the esteem of the most influential constituents. But there is the story of the late 1950s and early 1960s to demonstrate the decisive centrality of Aldo Moro in the opening to the PSI, in the constitution of the first left centre and in the construction, tiring and unfinished even today, of a full democracy. And only God knows what pressure he has suffered and almost reservations, if not real contrasts, has attracted at that time Mr Moro, protagonist of that season together with Amintore Fanfani: a phase of very high tension, who also saw the page of the Government Tambroni. "The opening on the left" writes Michele Marchi "becomes therefore" in the morotea synonym of autonomy of the lay believer engaged in politics, despite his own work draws deep inspiration from the religious teaching of the Catholic Church. Therefore, the "Copernican revolution" morotea consists in redesigning a Christian-democratic ruling class that is able to perceive itself free, at a time when it draws the practical consequences of its action in politics as a force of Catholic inspiration, from the constraints that vast sectors of the ecclesiastical hierarchy claim to impose it. (M. Marchi, Aldo Moro Secretary of Christian Democracy, Mondo Contemporaneo, Milan 2011, p. 107). Someone claimed that Moro began in those years to alert his opponents, including the apparent allies, and to push them to think about how to eliminate him from political life. Possible and even probable: no one else has in fact pushed and determined the political evolution of our country opposing the political involution wanted by others more than Mr Moro. And he remembers it with lucidity Mario Luzi in the poem dedicated to that tragic May 9: "Acciambellato in that filthy hold, riddled by those blows is him, the head of five governments, fixed point or strategist of at least ten others, the fine mind, the subtle master of methodical patience, true example of it also spiritually. This is the basic reason why one cannot stop looking for the truth about the Moro case, the historical truth that does not necessarily coincide with the judicial truth and that indeed of this can be wider, as it is not forced among the distresses of the trial. No one can forget, however, that the murder of Aldo Moro and his escort represents, as has been repeatedly observed, a crucial junction, a point of no return of an institutional, political and social nature. Nothing was in fact more like before and the Italian political history has known its saddest pages, which have accompanied us to date, in a growing and increasingly dramatic crisis of the institutional and social system. Is this new Commission a therapeutic act? No, it is the duty to look deep in our history, in the effort to deliver a healthier country, with no dark corners, no shadowy areas, no backthoughts, even at the cost of being utopian in the effort. The role of the International and Internal Secret Service, of the separate and deviant bodies of the State, of politicians and ministers, of foreign governments are still not completely clear profiles, to the extent that someone questions who was actually killed by Mr Aldo Moro. A further effort is therefore very appropriate, especially since the survey will be able to make use of new knowledge, new technologies and, above all, will be able to question national and foreign archives previously inaccessible. A further effort, not a repetition of previous paths by other Commissions, a rigorous effort in methods and adherence to the functions and purposes of a Commission, not a new process, not an ex-novo investigation, not a overlap with the work of the judiciary. Another would offend the memory of Mr Moro and the victims of terrorism and would not serve Parliament's credibility, would not go in the sense of the famous warning, still today, of Aldo Moro: This country will not be saved, the season of rights and freedoms will prove ephemeral, if in Italy a new sense of duty will not be born. On this basis and for these reasons, the PD Group will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u69	CASINI (PI). Mr President, in making a dissensionary speech, the time available to me does not allow me other than to make a general consideration. Forgive my colleague, Mr Gotor, whom I highly esteem and which I think is certainly the most suitable person to be the rapporteur on this measure, but I believe that one of the real problems in this country is that everyone no longer does his job and everyone wants to do the work of others. We are neither magistrates nor historians, and in this case we end up building a Commission that risks very seriously setting up a stage and a theater that will serve nothing but late-explosion exploitations. Personally, as President of the Chamber of Deputies in the 2001-2006 legislature, I denounced the proliferation of the Committees of Inquiry, a fundamental instrument, but to use cum grano Salis; today, however, we are proceeding, despite all the virtuous attempts to overcome the prefect bicameralism, to a chase between Chamber and Senate in order to succeed in producing and turning out new Committees of Inquiry, new bicamerals, new monocamerals, many of which are simply ridiculous. Since the story of Moro everything can be defined except ridiculous, because it was a tragic story for our country, I believe, even more so, that we are committing a simply wrong act. The judiciary has investigated this matter with seriousness, lucidity and depth. History studies and examines every day, from the letters of Moro to the acts of the magistrates. Senator Marino has clearly explained before me why, without wanting to involve anyone, let alone my Group, I, in conscience, do not feel I am voting in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry. I do so with great regret, but in the belief that it is a small act of truth that, in the depths, many of my colleagues share in this Senate. [[Applause from Senators Marino, Crimes, Marton, Scilipoti and Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u72	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked to speak in dissent from my Group because I agree with Senator Casini's speech, marrying him to the full. The decision I have taken is not to vote in favour of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u75	Mr Gotor, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like briefly to thank the offices that have cooperated with me in drawing up this measure. A special thanks goes also to Senator Luigi Compagna [[Applause from Senator D'Anna]] : It was thanks to him that a Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry was not set up, run by the Chamber of Deputies. Together we were able to achieve the goal of being bicameral. All the senators intervened. I understand the reasons for concern, including those of dissent and, of course, the reasons behind the launch of this Committee of Inquiry. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u76	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u79	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u80	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the draft law n. 1402, as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Therefore, draft law No 1030 remains absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1176. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now, in Italy and in Europe, the gift issue has been the subject of a broad cultural debate, which has become particularly lively and intense in recent years. In the same way, varied and increasing is the presence of the gift in the social reality, in Italy no less than in Europe: it is personal resources (time, energies, competences), financial means, material assets or anything else (as in the case of blood and organs), it can be said that donation choices contribute in an effective and consistent way to the purpose of the full development of the human person, which the Constitution lays at the basis of our democratic order, in the second paragraph of Article 3. Therefore an important theme and reality, which is intended to be recognized and valued by the institution of a gift day, to be considered as a moment of reflection, deepening and discussion. With the intention, of course, to involve those already engaged in activities and donational choices, but also, and in a certain sense above all, to propose these to the attention of the public as a whole. In these difficult times, moreover, offering the country an opportunity to reason on the idea and reality of the gift takes on a particular significance, insofar as the sense of insecurity that pervades our society is a child, also, of too much selfishness and too much indifference. As a particular importance it must be attributed to the objective of involving the younger generations in reflection, in the awareness, moreover, that it is necessary to offer them conditions of greater serenity (it did not seem to me all this a very noble wish), in which also the donation choices can express a renewed confidence in the future. 12 p.m. (Following Mr Morra, rapporteur). It is fair to say that the hypothesis of setting up a Gift Day was born from the low. It was initially discussed within the Italian Institute of Donation and subsequently received the comfort of a support committee, made up of eminent civil society figures. The initiative was then the subject of a challenging debate, attended by scholars and professionals of undoubted competence, from which additional elements of clarification and confirmation emerged. Therefore, the text drawn up by the Commission brings a mature need within the parliamentary classrooms, which deserves institutional recognition. From the cultural point of view, the reference to the constitutional dictation, already mentioned, allows the theme of gift to be framed in the most appropriate way. Of our fundamental Charter, here we want to recall the pluralist system, in which the primary values of freedom and solidarity are expressed in a differentiated, articulated and open way, as can be seen from the explicit acceptance of the principle of subsidiarity, which took place in 2001 (Article 118, fourth paragraph, in the reformed text). On this basis it is possible to avoid any opposition between the gift, as an exercise of responsibility assumed in a voluntary and free way, and institutional solidarity, entrusted to the bonds that take shape in the framework of the democratic process. Rather, it is a matter of cultivating both sides, in the belief that both are manifestations of sociality from which one cannot ignore, that is, that their presence enriches the framework of social balances, but also economic, in a way worthy of the highest consideration. Differentiated, moreover, is also the reality of the gift as such. The variety of content has already been mentioned. But various organizational forms can also be: private, individual, or more or less structured, on collective bases. Several, still, can be the recipients: single persons, that is, the communities of which one feels part; neighbors, that is, the other that one does not know, to which one feels united, however, because of the common human condition. And also the motivations, in fact, can reflect beliefs of different kinds, rest on broader or more restricted reasons. According to the spirit and the letter of the bill, the Day of Gift will have to reflect this multiplicity of situations in the most accomplished way possible. What emerges, in fact, is still a fact of wealth, and also something more: a horizon that different cultural traditions can feel as their own, and however feed in an original way, according to the peculiar orientations of which they are bearers. Also for this aspect, reasoning about the gift means contributing to the achievement of a higher degree of cohesion of the country and to the work, never concluded, of forming an increasingly mature national identity. Article 1 establishes a gift day: with an amendment approved in the Commission, it was identified on 4 October of each year, unlike initially foreseen. In fact, it was considered to choose a date already dedicated to the celebration of other celebrations. On 4 October, in fact, the feast of Saint Francis of Assisi, is also the Day of peace, fraternity and dialogue between members of different cultures and religions. Article 2 provides that the Day is celebrated with ceremonies, meetings and other initiatives for reflection, deepening and discussion, aimed in particular at students of schools of every order and degree, so that the practice of gift is recognized and valued, in its plurality of forms and contents. In transposing the condition laid down on the text by the Budget Commission, it was inserted, in paragraph 1, with an amendment, an - obvious - clause of financial invariance. On the basis of the following paragraph 2, which was also amended as a result of an amendment, it was established that the administrations concerned must comply with the requirements laid down by law with the human, instrumental and financial resources available to the legislation in force. I would also like to add, not reading from the report that has been prepared, that one (if not the main one) of the reasons why I accepted the position of rapporteur, which was proposed to me by the President of the 1st Commission, was the paradox that emerges from the fact that the first signatory of this bill is a former governor by the Bank of Italy. Now we know that the banks today are the first witnesses of the logic of profit; we have built a Europe centered on banks, but we can reverse the trend, just as Carlo Azeglio Ciampi did, deepening the culture of gift, going to read something that Move, Malinowski or Claude Levi-Strauss wrote about it (but not only them) and trying to understand that maybe it is the case to relaunch in Italy models of sociality, as well as of development, different. That is why - and I would like to point out this - I appreciated this task and this bill. I also consider it important that the day on which this anniversary will be celebrated is precisely the day of the poor man of Assisi, one who considered it a virtue to undress, and here in this House many, rather than undressing, think of dressing even too well. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u83	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u84	Mr President, my speech will be a quick one on the draft law establishing the Gift Day to say at once that, as a Group of the North League, we have also raised doubts in the Commission. In fact, it seems to us that the bill under consideration that would like to celebrate this particular feast on 4 October each year, in order to give awareness of the contribution of choices and donations, in reality is almost a useless form of celebration even in the light of the fact that, as we have seen in the Commission by making us prepare a list of which and how many holidays already planned in our order and in our country for the most varied anniversaries, of many of these anniversaries no one has more concentration or even news; so much it is true that it has been difficult to identify the right day to dedicate, because they were almost all occupied! We wonder what the meaning is, also because there are other festivities and celebrations, already planned, that could well explain the same effects of this choice, if you want to reward the activity of volunteering and social, that is absolutely to be exalted and that especially in our country (I come from a reality like that of Veneto, that is flourishing of experiences of this type) is an enrichment for the community and a work strongly felt by the citizens. Every form of commitment and participation deserves recognition, is one of the primary constitutional values of social solidarity and is certainly worthy of valorization. However, in the light of the wording of the bill, we have another question. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in addition to highlighting the difficulty of finding the most suitable day (just because, as I said, given the current timetable, almost every day there are already special commemorations), we have emphasized that where the text provides for initiatives, meetings, common moments of reflection (not well specified), presentations in schools of every order and degree and public ceremonies, this certainly implies an increase in public expenditure, with a series of financial costs that in our opinion have no reason to be. It is true that the Budget Commission, in the light of Article 81 of the Constitution, has intervened to specify that all these initiatives must be organised without new or increased burdens on public finances, and indeed, it was precisely through our initiative and our specific request in the relevant Commissions that this was provided for, in particular by establishing that the administrations concerned to promote initiatives of this kind should carry out all the obligations directly, with human resources, instrumental and financial resources available to legislation in force in their budgets. For the above reasons, our Group will abstain from voting on the measure under consideration, not on the merits, because as I have said, every activity of social aid deserves recognition and valorisation, but because this is certainly not the way to give answers. In our opinion, perhaps the best gift we can give our country in this moment of dramatic crisis is not to throw away the money unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u85	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are numerous quotations on the gift of authoritative people: writers, philosophers, sociologists. You will love if you give yourself or if you fully join your gifts, even the most material ones. (Michel Quoist). From the free gift depends the very existence of what society does, that is to say the social relationship, both particular and generalized. Of course, modern culture is based on the removal of the gift. Modernity is pleased to show that the free gift is one of the rarest events in human life. (Pierpaolo Donati). I would like to focus on this last quote, which states that the free gift is one of the rarest events in human life. If for many social reasons this statement can be true, it is equally true that there are millions of people who decide to give their time, their skills and knowledge in a pure spirit of solidarity and the desire to be there, to feel useful. Then there are people who, in full life and well-being, think and subscribe to the will to donate organs in case of death. But even before they die they decide to donate part of themselves through the donation of blood, plasma, bone marrow. They are all gestures dictated by a great civic and moral sense. I work in the emergency department of the hospital "Careggi" In the rooms where I work, the organs are taken. Unfortunately, as a result of severe trauma or brain hemorrhages, young people who, given their age, had not yet decided to donate the organs. [[Senator Bencini gets moved and remains silent for a few seconds]] Excuse me. Although they had not decided to donate the organs, we who work in that environment, nurses and doctors, we interface with families and ask them to make a great gesture, that is the greatest gift they can make. (Senator Bencini speaks with a broken voice from the concussion). A person has a child, gives it to society and then is taken away. We ask that these people donate the organs and often these parents consent, because they know that this donation has a high moral, ethical and civic value. By giving organs, other people, who are likely to have little chance of survival, find hope. In that death, the very high gesture of giving organs causes other people to find life. It is a great gesture of love: the agreement that parents give to donation is a very high gesture of love for society. Sorry, I got excited and lost, too. [[Applause]] Those who are recipients of this gift feel grateful and, in turn, will feel the desire to give society their time, or how much they can, always in ethical terms. Another important quote in this sense is that "Everything that is not given must be lost." The establishment of the Gift Day will therefore be a moment of reflection on the need to rediscover and emphasize the importance of the gratuitousness of the gift, which in our society is not taken for granted. In archaic society, on the other hand, the gift is the institution that bases social cohesion. I believe that we need greater social cohesion at national, European and world level. So let this Day of Gift come, which will be celebrated on October 4, the day dedicated to the celebration of other celebrations, such as the feast of St Francis of Assisi, as well as being the Day of Peace, Fraternity and Dialogue between members of different cultures and religions. I end up with one last quote from the one who for many is the Word: There is more joy in giving than there is in receiving! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u87	Thank you, Senator Bencini, even for the spirit of your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u89	Mr President, I find it singular, in a positive sense, that the proposal that comes to us and which certainly has an intrinsic meaning in wanting to recover, in a society made up of a series of very individualistic and selfish behaviors, the human dimension that pertains to the great will to be at the service of others, of neighbour. For these reasons, I believe it is appropriate, but also of great ethical and pedagogical value, to point to the attention of the national community and local communities the celebration of a day dedicated in particular to gratuitousness, that is to say to making oneself available to others: not only in terms of relationship with others, but also in the sense of common goods, such as the environment, the territory and the landscape. Indeed, giving oneself, that is, part of one's own availability and sensitivity, can do good not only individually, but also in collective terms, in the sense of having a global dimension, which is precisely that of the general interest and the common good. From this point of view, even the political part to which I belong, Forza Italia, sees in individuality a high expression of ability to be, to make oneself available, or to find, in the centrality of the person, the fulfilment of the ultimate ends of life and of the human being. As mayor of my city, Noci, on more than one occasion, celebrating his farewell by social workers, such as the retired teachers, I remembered how much teaching is to be enrolled in the series of gift professions. Those who teach certainly have a willingness towards others who do not find quantitative feedback in other professions that contribute directly to the creation of gross domestic product. The teacher has a predisposition to be naturally at the service of others, without this service being counted in economic or even mathematical terms. What he teaches must be calculated and weighted over the years and decades. A philosopher of the decline, Marcel Hénaff, theorized what is proposed to us today. But I am not in love with the epic of happy degrowth, while I am convinced that each of us must contribute to an individual and collective development, made precisely by others able to give propulsion and purposefulness to one's own being and behavior. I like to confirm that there will be no additional expenses for the establishment of the Gift Day. It will not be costly for the public coffers, and particularly for those of the State. It will by no means be an opportunity for the establishment of new bridges in school calendars or in any case linked to the world of work and production. For this reason, if the Gift Day can represent a way of social and individual promotion, you will surely find the support of my Group and my staff. I believe that at Gift Day we must give the broadest meaning. Gifts not only of an ideal nature, but also in the field of health and health, also the simple gesture of giving an object and of giving part of one's time to the next: probably, all these meanings can help to make this day an event of common acceptance but also of common promotion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u90	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking President Ciampi for this initiative, which has been properly collected by the whole House. I do so with all my affection and esteem, and not only because it is a proposal that comes from a man who has been Governor of the Bank of Italy, but also because of his ability to perceive the serious dramas of our time. The first great drama of our time, which I think goes through everyone, is what everything has become a market and the various days - from Mother's Day to Father's Day - have become the object of consumerism, and we ourselves are objects that are passed on to each other, in a logic that I think is losing from the point of view of those who want to build a more human society. We have been difficult for years, in which the market has mastered it in social relations, interpersonal relations and even in love relationships: even the concept of love has changed profoundly on the basis of the market. The same concept of gift has come down and demeaned very much, until it even becomes a blackmail on individual freedom: I give you and, in this way, I take a part of you. Paradoxically, by giving, I take away your freedom. A great complexity, therefore, of matter, which makes the Gift Day a far from trivial and anything but purely celebratory moment. Enzo Bianchi defines the gift as an evolutionary gesture born of freedom and ignites a relationship not generated by utilitarianism. It is easier to say than to do so, of course; it is easier to reason on the gift with a profit; it is much easier to reason on a market logic: but to donate is to take a risk, it is to recover from the gap on the indifference that we have with each other. Gifting also means avoiding the hope of return - this must be very clear - because giving means finding the other, finding the others. The absence of relations - says Marc Augé - that is the failure of the relationship with the other, is the greatest threat to the pursuit of the common good. While it is true that ethics comes from the individual, it is true that ethics from the individual is made society, and therefore there is the social dimension of the gift, as is said very well in the report and as has been well explained also by the speeches of colleagues. I think of the whole world of volunteering, to which I believe goes more than a thank you, because it is different from non-profit; it is different from management systems: volunteering is donating one's time, one's abilities, one part of one's life for the other, without having anything in return. Again, I think about donations: certainly organ donations, but also blood donation. I am thinking of the technological frontiers of reproduction that offer us important donations that - and this must be said, and this is something I think we must all be very proud of - in Italian legislation are linked to gratuitousness: there is no organ market; there is no or should not be the organ market or there should be no blood market; there is or should not be the reproduction market. This all-Italian characteristic I believe must be preserved and emphasized on the Gift Day, precisely because we need to overcome that precariousness, that temporaryity, that transit, that passage, that solitary individualism to which we are, unfortunately, too often condemned in the social dimension and in the scholastic dimension or in the work. To stop for a day to reflect is therefore an act of responsibility. The original, etymological meaning of the term responsibility is linked to the verb responder, that is to say to be guarantors of the future. Then, you see that the gift takes on another dimension and the Gift Day takes on an ethical dimension and a full value. I am thinking, as a final point, of the involvement of schools on this day. I agree with my colleagues who have said this: if they are empty celebrations, they will do nothing. But if reflection is linked to school work, to knowledge, to the growth of civil virtues, then it becomes an area of school openness to society, of opening the minds of students and teachers, and finally signals that transition from education to education. Can a pedagogy of the gift exist? I believe so, and this pedagogy can contribute to the formation of the citizen. I want to make this clear, with affection, to my colleague, Mr Bisinella: not everything is money. It is not that during these days you have to organize the feasts of the sausage of the gift. You can even fly a little higher. Thinking doesn't cost anything economically, but it costs a great inner effort: that of freedom. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u92	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u93	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u94	Mr President, it seems to me that the debate has emerged - with the exception of Senator Bisinella's voice - a largely majority position in favour of this draft law. Therefore, I think we can easily proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u95	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration has been widely shared and shows how the subject affects and affects people's sensibilities. Beyond the cultural value it assumes, the recognition of 4 October (as the rapporteur, Senator Morra, recalled, a day of peace and dialogue) as a Gift Day must be an example of sharing the value of donation, as an act of gratuitousness, expression of those principles of solidarity contained in our Constitution. A solidarity society that shares the problems of other people through the commitment of each one is a society that grows and is a symptom of a country that, especially in times of difficulty, manages to find itself around shared and common values: this is a sign of great hope for our country. I would therefore like to thank everyone, particularly the rapporteur, Senator Morra. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u97	I would like to say that the Presidency has received, and is being distributed, the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u100	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I understand the emphasis of some people on voting for the missing colleague, but it is a practice that should end.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u101	If there are cases, signal them to the Presidency and the Secretary Senators will check. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1176
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u104	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, in signing, on a personal and Group basis, the draft law on the establishment of the Gift Day, I believe that a first question has arisen spontaneously in each of us: whether or not donating is still there today. In a society marked by accentuated individualism, narcissism, selfishness and egolatria, is there still room for gift? Perhaps the answer can be found in our everyday life, in voluntary ethics, we can say; but the gift and the gift are acts intimately inscribed in the nature of man and, if not recognized as such, are authentic acts of humanization. Gifting by definition means delivering one good into the hands of another without receiving anything in return. This marks the distinction between giving and giving: in giving there is a subject, the donor, who in freedom, not forced and by generosity makes and makes himself a gift to the other, regardless of the answer that may arise from it. Gifting is therefore an asymmetric movement, because spontaneous, free action; therefore giving is possible. As an action without calculations, it knows how to exceed by giving more than the other has the title to receive. Gifting ignites a relationship not generated by exchange, contract, interpersonal utilitarianism, but the gift is possible when deciding the proximity. It is here that we play the true ethical meaning - we can say - and even more political than giving, that is, getting close to each other, getting involved in his life, wanting to take on a relationship with the other. As has been widely recalled, there is more joy in giving than there is in receiving. For what reason is there a reminder that it is not only ethical, but is it even more political? Because the size of giving cannot be played, using terminology in the noblest sense of expression, in terms of intersubjectivity, but in terms of reciprocity. In intersubjectivity, equal relations must be with another; instead, in the dimension of giving, of giving oneself, the principle of reciprocity is clearly declined: no longer to be with another, but to be "for another." It seems to me that this ethical foundation, we could say of an anthropological order, also represents the substance of an action that is not of a party order, but is a political dimension, because if politics is - as it is - ethical of coexistence, of being with others and for others, I believe that giving and giving could only find, as proposed by the Senator for Life Ciampi, a moment of aggregation, a moment of involvement, a moment of social recognition. Some might say that it might be obvious to state these principles; some might say that it is quite repetitive, but perhaps not so. Precisely in the historical moments in which there is a greater need for a call to values and principles, to recognize a particular day, such as that of 4 October, and to recognize oneself in the symbolism that recalls precisely this date, I believe that it helps to develop in all its great horizon, which is not only of personal order but also becomes recognition of the institutional order. That is why I believe in the value of this principle of reciprocity, and not of mere intersubjectivity. The dimension of giving and giving oneself is clearly the most tangible manifestation, we can say the clearest and most evident epiphenomenon of the human dimension, precisely that of a relationship for the other. There we build civil education and social sensitivity and - if you will allow me - community democracy. That is why the Per l'Italia Group will vote in favour of the draft law in the vote. [[Applause from Senators Sollo and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u107	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in an explanation of vote to make our Group's thinking on this subject more explicit. We recognize as absolutely important the theme of social participation, the theme of giving, which is always free of charge, to others, the theme of the widest possible participation. What we are contesting is the fact that, with a specific draft law, a special day is being set up in relation to the many already planned in the calendar and of which perhaps no one is counted in this House. Many other days can be dedicated to this theme. However, it seems to us that it is only a desire to promote a very demagogic speech at this stage. I understand that it is a beautiful test of transversality that is being recorded in this House, but as it happens many times it is also without real meaning: to want to take care of others, to want to show participation and feelings of closeness, every day is the right one, every day is good, and we know it well that we try to give meaning and body to our mandate, here, every day. Our local administrators in the communities, who face daily the problems of those who have lost their jobs, of those who do not know how to arrive at the end of the month, are well aware of this. Perhaps the most true, real and concrete answers that we should all commit ourselves to giving are those to the real problems that people face every day. Let us also point out another situation: the transversal nature of this House is purely demagogic, because in fact, in the Commission, almost all political forces have expressed their perplexity. I reject Mr De Biasi's remarks to the sender. I do not want to make any instrumental controversy, but I do not understand what the reference to certain types of celebrations of salamella has to do, when we first, speaking - as I have already said - of those who have lost their jobs, of those who daily face enormous problems and seek answers, we have argued that it certainly does not take a dedicated day to address such issues. I would remind you that, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, some representatives of your own Democratic Party have associated themselves with our considerations and have expressed doubts about the pedagogical value of the institution of days dedicated to the memory of thematic dates. They have also expressed - for example - opposition to the financial burdens that could result in such celebrations. Forza Italia had also declared itself in the Commission against the establishment of a further day dedicated to a specific topic such as the one under consideration, when initiatives can be envisaged in days already established. It is therefore on the same line as what we have advocated. The 5 Star Movement itself had considered it inappropriate to set up a special day to express the meaning and value of the gift, observing critically that it could not be configured as an obligation. These are the true reasons, the reasons on which we reaffirm our abstention, even if - I confirm - we believe that the valorization of this theme is always worthy of recognition: not with a specially established day, but every day. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u110	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Mixed-SEL Group will vote in favour of the draft law, because I believe it is absolutely important to highlight the issue of gift, which is the subject of a large cultural debate in recent years. During this last period, the number of associations and practices that profoundly bind the idea of gift to that of solidarity has increased. The Gift Day - I hope we will all vote for it in this spirit - can become a moment of cultural reflection, which must be closely linked to the constitutional dictation, of deepening and discussion. I hope above all that that day can be a way to bring out and give the right prominence to the vast network of associations and practices that are perhaps among the most interesting things in our country. I believe that the establishment of the Gift Day is important, especially considering the moment so heavy for our country and the social difficulties, the drama and despair that go through it. I believe that the dissemination and knowledge of gift practices and, therefore, of gift culture are fundamental. We all hope that the culture of gift and solidarity can spread more and more, strong elements for the recovery of the sense of community and belonging to a country and a nation, especially towards those who are in the most difficult situations. As has rightly been mentioned in many speeches, this speech includes reflection on practices such as organ donation, an act of very strong generosity that until a few years ago came only from a small minority. It is precisely the discussion, reflection and institutional commitment in this sense that has served a great deal to increase these experiences. We believe that the Gift Day should not be taken as the umpteenth celebration that serves no purpose, but that it may be an opportunity for careful reflection and discussion on gift choices, culture and gift practice. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u113	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, the gift is what you give or receive without having anything in return, without demanding anything in return. It is a concept that can only be understood through anthropological categories. Only if we ask ourselves what is at man's heart can we understand it. Man cannot live outside the community, whether large or small. It is precisely within the first community, the family, that makes the first experiences of gratuitousness, giving and receiving without anything in return. Here, first of all, he receives the free gift of life. When each of us forgets its Community dimension and when it censors these fundamental questions, the negative effects are felt on society as a whole. Our country can boast a great wealth, that of volunteering: the banks of the time, the food bank, the non-profit associations, the pharmaceutical bank. All these associations carry out donating activities; it is about time, money, things, even themselves, as in the case of blood and organs. They allow the full development of the human person: people who, individually or in communities, commit each other to making the gift of themselves to others. The beauty of a donating act lies in the fact that no one is obliged, and therefore we live the vertigo of freedom, we see extraordinary results, both for the individual, but also to become a civil society, to become a more civil society. To establish the Gift Day today is a political act of great importance, in order to enhance Italian solidarity, one of the fundamental resources also to get out of the crisis in a different way from how we entered. Then why a law? Because the law has a pedagogical scope: it can help, stimulate, create a positive thought towards the gift of one's own time, of one's own creativity, of oneself. It can grow this culture of gift. To do what? To remember the gift of life and to feel community and also to thank all those who, in so much or so little, give and give themselves to others. Finally, I would like to thank you for having decided to place the celebration on 4 October, the feast of Saint Francis of Assisi. Forgive me if I come back to my ancient profession, the one in person who studied the history of art. I look back to the frescoes of the Basilica of Assisi, the frescoes of Simone Martini, the chapel of San Martino in the lower Basilica, and the frescoes of the Upper Basilica, where Francis gives his cloak to the noble knight reduced in misery. Two frescoes, the same gesture: that of the gift of the cloak. And perhaps it is not really a coincidence that St. Martin is the first non-martyr saint of the Church, witnessing that giving is of extraordinary humanity and certainly makes man greater. For all these reasons the vote of the New Right Centre will be fully positive. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u116	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I begin with a quote from Gandhi: "Take goodness and give it to those who cannot give it." It's part of one of his most beautiful writings. It is difficult to talk about the gift, in times of personalism and self-affection. And it is equally difficult to avoid falling into rhetorical traps, perhaps imbued with false goodness, when dealing with such matters. It is even to be thought that, if we need the institution of the Gift Day, it is because it is not similar to the logic of our culture, the Western one and the 2000s, the one that requires competitive and aggressive, Olympic champions of an agonism at the limits of overwhelmment. The gift is often misrepresented and interpreted as an exchange commodity in order to have something back: a completely wrong perception, which dequalifies its nature. Yet a gift, the gift, is precisely what we expect when we are alone, without help and in difficulty. It is an anchor of rescue, when we are overburdened by the problems and natural adversities of life; it is a mode of civil participation that never goes out of fashion. How, then, is the gift interpreted in 2014? The gift in the 21st century has changed skin and is declined in many forms. The tangible basis is no longer merely objects, money, financial means and material assets; today there is a real invisible capital on which one can rely. There are the so-called banks of the time - other colleagues have already mentioned them - which represent a kind of beneficial economy, alternative to profit. They are banks where transactions become missions of altruism, actions of humanity and solidarity. The provision of time to others, through, for example, the transmission of knowledge or the teaching of practical knowledge and skills, is certainly one of the greatest expressions of support for others. The gift is voluntary and non-profit. According to ISTAT, the non-profit institutions count on the contribution of 4.7 million volunteers who carry out, totally and knowingly, activities free of charge; activities that - I would like to point out - differ from the different and much more problematic field of the services rendered free of charge which, on the other hand, should have an appropriate recognition, as well as a worthy and adequate remuneration. But the gift also involves the issue of organ donation, a controversial topic that is shaky between law, ethics and ethics. Data from the Ministry of Health website show that in 2013 the donors were 1,318, in a decreasing trend compared to the previous year. The percentage of donation activity, in fact, in the last two years has dropped from 18.9 to 18.5 percent. The patients on the waiting list therefore still remain many, many. As of December 31, 2013, the waiting lists speak of nearly 9,000 people hanging on a wire waiting for the transplant of an organ, especially a kidney. The regular donor's sketch is that of a woman, with a mature age, a higher education qualification, offering what she can in a continuous and stable way. Having made this thematic introspection, it is necessary to emphasize with force that the institution of the Gift Day represents an opportunity to emerge from a crisis that not only affects the economic field, but that mainly afflicts values, feelings, good intentions. Beyond institutional recognition, therefore, the gift must be every day the antidote to selfishness and indifference. It cannot be just a circumstantial attitude to a 24-hour period or to the celebration of a recurrence imposed by a law, but it is obviously something more. It is necessary, then, to spread this gesture as a collective mantra, because through these signs of sharing we are given the opportunity to understand also the identification code of the successive generations, of ourselves and of the direction taken. Gift is the means through which relationships with neighbour are established, the means through which a form of communication and exchange begins, a chance to reflect on the concept of the common good, an awakening of awareness often endured by the weight of everyday life. In the gift lies the core of sustainable development, active citizenship, being a living part of a community. The gift comes before the request, before the need: this is the true beauty. In the frenzy of so-called modern times, we happen to be passive spectators of uncomfortable situations that are deeply rooted, now more than ever, in the social fabric. Yet, to become dynamic operators in this field, it takes very little, very little. Each of us, in his little one, can be a hero of solidarity or an activist of healthy values because, as the Nobel Peace Prize Mother Teresa of Calcutta said: What matters is not the quantity of the gift, but the intensity of the love with which we give it. If you think about it, there is no need for great resources. There is no need for budgetary manoeuvres to donate; the gift does not depend on the so-called "further increases" for the expenditure of the State, and I challenge anyone in this House to believe otherwise. And it is one of the many reasons that, as citizens and spokesperson for the 5 Star Movement, lead us to express a favourable opinion on this bill. The ethics of the gift does not lie in the payment of a price, but in the inclusion of self, of one's skills and skills in a path that asks nothing, if not spontaneity. The territories, therefore, must become nurseries for the development of initiatives of proximity, support and empowerment. The joy of the gift must be passed on to children, it must be handed down as the first pillar of civic education in schools, especially the primary ones, because that is where the future citizens of tomorrow grow. It is important to raise civil society's awareness of the gift gesture. The "io" must become the "noi" in a reality in which, once and for all, the individualism brought to the extreme consequences is defeated. Let's remember: the gift has a circular motion: what you put in the circle returns to enrich. For the reasons put forward, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u119	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in a society strongly marked by exasperated individualism, the draft law we are dealing with is appropriate. I believe that it is good for Parliament - and, in particular, the Senate of the Republic - to take care of it, knowing that the highest institutions of the State must come up with an attitude of a pedagogical nature, in which civil behavior which is intended to be an example for the whole national community is strongly exalted. Here the situation has been well represented in relation to the anthropology of the gift and its gratuitousness. I believe it is necessary that, through instruments and contexts already precious in themselves in the national debate (such as school, family and voluntary associations), the culture of donation finds fertility, but also good opportunities to be disseminated and promoted. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the creation of the Gift Day, also in view of the need not to make it a pretext to create a further reason for celebration, aware of the deviations that have undergone the admirable initiatives of the Feast of Women, Mother or Dad, ending up as opportunities to achieve goals contrary to what we would like to celebrate today and becoming a factor of strong rush to consumption, that is something that mainly pertains to the economy. Instead, I believe that the Gift Day must be aseptic and neutral, involving all the people in their intimate, so that the gift belongs to each of us and, for this reason, is the sum of a positive collective attitude. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u122	LEPRI (PD). The Gift Day can help the Italian people and young people to understand or remember the opportunity and importance of the gift. For this reason, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure, well aware that a day is not enough to impose, perhaps by law, gratuitous attitudes. The law that provides for the establishment of a day dedicated to the gift, however, can promote, promote, raise awareness and recognize the free and voluntary action, individual, collective or in associated form: this is the spirit, for example, of Law 266 of 1991 on volunteering, single and organized. In every society, all the more in those premodern ones, the logic of the gift is present and there is no doubt that modernity and postmodernity endanger these practices and these logics, or at least there is no doubt that they are changing them. Whether it is a unilateral gift, that is oblative and without reciprocation, or one that determines reciprocity, that is, a non-monetary exchange, perhaps deferred, typical of family behaviour and practices or of good neighborhood, what matters is keeping such practices alive and widespread, different from the market code, that is, from economic exchange or money, or from the State, that is, from the exercise of power for the regulation and production of public goods. Why, then, is it necessary to value the gift? Not only that, in short, because those who benefit from it today in our communities with difficulties would otherwise have that advantage. Let us just imagine what would happen if only one day volunteers' canteens for the poor or blood collection were closed, if volunteers were missing in nursing homes or hospitals or if civil protection volunteering stopped. It is not only necessary because we could hardly find alternatives to this great voluntary commitment; not only because there are some relational goods that can be produced only through the gift (we think of friendship, listening, the comfort of the people who suffer): quoting a famous sociologist, one can say that one cannot give meaning administratively. Enhancing the gift is also necessary because only if there is more gift can social cohesion grow. Only if there is more gift increases that share capital that is not, as can usually be understood, the economic basis of the enterprise, but is the foundation of the company, the company capital. It is also necessary because there is growing mutual trust without which the market and exchange cannot operate on a safe basis. Even more, because without an increase in gift politics risks becoming simply an arena and loses that gym where young people learn to operate for the public good with disinterest. But more, without an increase in gift we risk having citizens progressively servants of consumerism, fiction and probably subjects of politics. Now we have to say that much has been done in these twenty years, starting with the above-mentioned Act on Volunteering; I also believe that many small acts have been positive, and they are all positive, every day (I am thinking, for example, of the recognition of educational credits for high school children who systematically do voluntary activities), but a great deal still remains to be done. From this point of view, the Gift Day can certainly be useful: I think, for example, of the opportunity to open on that day the doors of all kinds of associationism, particularly to high school students. Opening the doors for young people to enter voluntary organizations is a great challenge that is still largely unexplored. So, in conclusion, it doesn't matter why citizens experience or want to experience the gift and the oblative action: whether it's for spirit or religious sentiment, whether it's for a sense of fraternity, or maybe for less noble but equally extraordinarily human feelings such as feeling useful and meeting people. The important thing is that in our communities we operate not only by giving in order to have, as well as requires the market code, not only by giving out of duty, as the code of politics requires, but simply and primarily by giving free, without reciprocation. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Fattori and Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u124	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u125	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on the understanding that I have the greatest respect for all the speeches that have taken place in this House and that I share most of the comments made by my fellow Members, my position is to abstain from voting. I believe that those who preceded me were right in saying that we must not pursue the logic of the market code and politics, but we Christians (and I believe that I am not alone in this House, because I believe that the people present are mostly Christians) know perfectly well that something of ours must be given daily to those who have not been lucky like us, and I am afraid to say that we are forced to set up the Gift Day. We should donate daily, and in giving daily we do not donate to have something back: we should do it in silence, without speaking, really applying what we profess. We Christians - and you will forgive me if I say this in quotes - know what we have to do, there is no need for anyone to remind us of it, and we do not give an indication to the citizen through a bill that must be given something, because each of us should already hear it and do it quietly and serenely. I am sorry to take this position, but for these reasons I am forced to abstain from voting, unlike the party in which I militate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u127	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u128	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I very much appreciate all the speeches made here about the gift. The gift is a wonderful thing, but approving a bill to establish the Gift Day in my opinion is a way of settling with conscience, avoiding instead putting in place legislative actions that would lead to the redistribution of goods and social equity. On the contrary, I call on all my colleagues to devote the proceeds of an hour of discussion to the small and medium-sized enterprise fund, showing that they are able to donate truly and not only hypocritically.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u130	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u131	CASINI (PI). Let's get out of here. Let's not waste our time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're entitled, President Casini. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I shall vote against the draft law in question because frankly I do not feel that I am taking part in the creation of another hypocritical day, on which we are only stimulating the commodification of the phenomenon we are talking about. Each of us should freely give without the need for a law: there is no need for a law to do something that we can do independently. So I don't vote for this! [[Applause from Senators Fattori and Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u134	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u135	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u138	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to stay for a second because I would like to draw your attention to a very important issue. Last year, as a Movement, we presented a question about the Unipol-Fonsai affair asking for clarifications and assurances about the very important operation that was carried out and that certainly involved center-right interests, center-left, numerous savers and supervisory authorities. The question we asked then was more Fonsai because, as you know, they arrested the entire Ligresti family for the management, as a minimum, of Premafin, Fondiaria-SAI and Milano Assicurazioni, for which they were plundered not the banks, but the small savers, the small shareholders, the insured and so on. Any crime that has been detected by prosecutors' investigations could not be committed without the complacency of the supervisory authorities. At the time, among other things, the sons of Giannini and Cardia, today former presidents, respectively, of ISVAP (now IVASS) and CONSOB, were employed by Ligresti, as well as the son of the Chancellors, Piergiorgio Peluso. These things in this country, unfortunately, seem normal, but they are not. A little less than a year ago we presented this question (the 4-00665), which has not yet received an answer, in which we already anticipated what the judiciary later discovered, not only on Fonsai, but today also on Unipol, that is, the alleged criminal maneuvers on the devaluation of the actions of both companies, on the incorrect behaviour of Vegas and CONSOB, which it seems have not adequately monitored. Many are the suspects, including Cimbri, center-left man. In view of this, we demand, in addition to a response, also clarity and reassurances to savers citizens who have seen their actions and contracts with insurance depreciated. Announcement that Mrs Montevecchi will put another question on this point. I also assume that the citizens who have given you this great confidence in the recent elections also demand transparency on these operations and demand efficient control bodies. There are some great technicians who... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Give me a second, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u139	Get it done, though. AIROLA (M5S). I was saying, there are some excellent technicians who have been expelled. Two journalists from the Republic have been reported for computer update...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u140	[[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u141	Thank you, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u142	AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, President. This is about you too! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u145	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly the Minister for Heritage and Cultural Activities and Tourism to a question I put on 7 August 2013 (the 4-00732), concerning the environmental disaster that is taking place against the medieval monumental complex of Tor Chiesaccia, located between the via Laurentina and Castel di Leva, dating back to the 10th century after Christ and subject to protection pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 42 of 22 January 2004. Despite being tied to the inediability from the village plan of the Lazio Region n. 15/3, the area around the ruins of Tor Chiesaccia is the subject of countless urban violations and speculations, due to some buildings concessions cheerfully assigned to the entrepreneurial group belonging to the Caltagirone family. Permits that have quietly allowed the construction of buildings much higher, up to five floors more than the requirements contained in the regional environmental impact assessment, in which the area is destined for greenery and public services, despite an investigation produced by the manager of the area had required the suspension of any urban work on the area. This document was then mysteriously lost and the official transferred to another post. These buildings, in addition to being erected on the walls of a fortified field and a necropolis, also shamefully derogate from the prohibition of building or altering the land within 100 meters from the tower, as established in a decree of the regional direction of the Superintendence for architectural and landscape goods, in which it is also forbidden to include with possible constructions the profile and perception of the Tower, foreclosure that becomes inevitable with the construction of two seven-storey palaces. These buildings are incompatible with the ope legislative constraint which still concerns the area and the regional direction... PRESIDENT. Thank you. BLUNDO (M5S). Wait, ma'am, I'll finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. BLUNDO (M5S). I was saying, the regional management has never declared such a constraint to lapse. For all these reasons, I ask the Minister to give quick and precise answers to my act of inspection union. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u148	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind you of Maria, a 47-year-old woman, a worker in the FIAT logistics department in Nola, who has been in the Social Security Fund for six years. [[Applause from Senators Gambaro and Puglia.]] She took her life with several stab wounds. Unfortunately, it's not the first suicide there. It was found after several days, following the alarm given by the neighbors concerned about the bad smell coming from the apartment closed, from the inside. They tell me he loved writing a lot. I read what he wrote. He wrote: "From my terrace I see the FIAT and I think that there I spent twenty years of my life. I'll never see those places again. For me, it's an emotional mourning. I think these words are dedicated to all those who want to commodify the work. It is not possible to live for years on the edge of the ravine of layoffs. This House has a moral and political duty to reflect on these words, to ensure that each of us puts everything, but everything, in order that these episodes do not occur. In order to do so, dignity must be restored to the world of work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u151	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 May, the Italian League for the fight against AIDS set up a conference under the patronage of the Ministry of Health, entitled 'Whatever work, HIV does not count'. There are about 100,000 people in Italy who know they are HIV positive. Most of them are men of working age. Almost 89 percent, in fact, are between 25 and 59 years old. And many of them are busy, but they are very careful not to make known their HIV-positiveness. All this because of fear of being discriminated against, forced labour, or simply of being judged and labelled through those stereotypes still widespread today, not only on the professional sphere, but also on the private and social one. Despite the Italian Constitution, national laws and international norms, they protect the right to work from all forms of discrimination, ignorance and prejudice still remain in the opposite direction. Sometimes even a test is required for job recruitment or for access to a ban, in violation of the privacy of the individual. Dismissals and discrimination of any kind do not therefore make any sense. The question is defined by law; and indeed, Law No. 135 of 1990 states that HIV-positiveness cannot be grounds for dismissal. The request for the test is an abuse, as it is expressly prohibited by law. Yet, reports also come about very popular companies and agencies, including some airlines, the Ministry of Defence and Fire Departments. Precisely to the issue of discrimination against people with HIV, in particular in the world of work, is dedicated the new campaign of the Italian League for the fight against AIDS, also in the light of the fact that in the phone calls of HIV-positive people to the LILA switchboards, the issue of rights has, for the first time, exceeded those of the difficulties of relationship and health management. The campaign organised by LILA aims to bring the attention of all public institutions, political forces and civil society to such a sensitive issue, to produce a change that is first of all cultural, then practical. The LILA campaign addresses HIV and I work with the message: whatever work, HIV doesn't count. As stated in Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and satisfactory working conditions and to protection against unemployment. [[Recalls of the President]] LILA concludes with this slogan: "Working is a right. We stop HIV, not people with HIV. Do people with HIV often get sick and often leave work? No: the quality of life of people with HIV has changed considerably. Antiretroviral therapies are now easier to take and have much less side effects than in the past. There are medications available that require only one tablet, or therapies with multiple medications to be taken once a day. If you don't have any other pathologies, the hospital checks and tests range from three to four times a year. For this reason, people with HIV do not stop working more than others; their health is mostly good. In fact, 41 percent of them are asymptomatic and only 25 percent have developed AIDS. Today, however, even for those who have developed AIDS, through the use of antiretroviral therapy, which allows in most cases the full recovery of the immune system, life expectancy is comparable to that of a person without HIV. For this, people with HIV can. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and The Judge.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u152	Thank you, Senator Bencini. He even had an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u155	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, this morning there were demonstrations in my city in Brescia for the 40th anniversary of the massacre in Piazza della Loggia, which caused 8 deaths and 102 injuries. It was one of the most dramatic passages of the tension strategy that was inaugurated with the attack in Piazza Fontana in 1969. My city, its institutions, the Association of Family members of the fallen of the massacre and the world of school and education have worked in recent years to keep alive, feed and attribute sap to memory: to a public memory that reunites with the tragedy of personal memory. Well, this year the demonstrations take place under a new sign, I would say spes contra spem. If in the past we have celebrated the memory divided by the conflicting interpretations that have been given of the category of the value of antifascism (we have known in the square the besieged memory and on more than one occasion, between the end of the seventies and the early eighties, the demonstrations ended with the intervention of the Police, because of the contrast of the forces of movements in the field), if we have known, during the eighties, the memory offended by a justice that has not been such and investigations that have not led to the identification of any responsible, any sender and executor, this year the city lives the dimension of hope. In fact, the recent judgment of the Court of Cassation has basically reopened the possibility of arriving at a truth: to the truth. That truth without which the dead die twice. It seems to me then that this hope can be nouned by three truths: those historical-political truths that are now approached - this is our hope - by judicial truth. The first: the massacre in Piazza della Loggia is the result of a deadly covered and targeted attack brought to trade union organizations and the Unitary Anti-fascist Committee that on May 28, 1974 had promoted a demonstration against the development of attacks brought to the democratic assembly and its rules. There is a second truth: it is now established, not only in the historical-political setting, but by the accumulation of judicial evidence (beyond what Judge Zorzi has called a sort of modernist hypergarantism), that the massacre of Piazza della Loggia is the result of the conspiracy and initiative of radical organizations that belong to the extreme neofascism of the Venetian-Milan area. It is the same matrix of the massacre of Piazza Fontana: neo-fascist criminal organizations, in collaboration with state apparatuses, which would be improper to define deviated. In fact, these apparatuses, far from manifesting fidelity to the Constitution, conspired to produce a process of undemocratic destabilisation in our country. Well, this truth is now established. Finally, hope. I believe that we are on the eve of a moment in which we can overturn the statement of Pier Paolo Pasolini, who, as is well known, wrote on the "Corriere della Sera": "I know." But I don't have proof. In the light of the judgment of the Court of Cassation, we can say that we now have the evidence and perhaps we are on the verge of knowing. When we know, the tears will finally be dried and the dead will be able to rest in peace. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-ILC groups and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u156	The Presidency is associated with the memory of the massacre of Brescia, forty years after that dramatic event, and with the words of Senator Corsini, remembering that in those years many dramatic events characterized Italian life. 1974 was the year of the first victims of the Red Brigades in Padua, the year of the massacre of Brescia and many other moments of tragedy that have also recently been (not all, but some) remembered in the Chamber of Deputies on the occasion of the Day dedicated to the victims of terrorism, celebrated with a speech by the Head of State on 9 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-249.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.30 a.m.
