ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u4	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. I invite colleagues to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u9	PAGE (NCD). I'm asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9 a.m. and resumed at 10.20 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u11	Colleagues, let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u14	BUCCARELLA (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved. I would like to take this opportunity to wish Senator Saggese and Senator Vaccari well for their birthday and Senator Buccarella for the appointment as Parent Company. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u18	BIGNAMI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to join in congratulating the new Marianna Madia. Since we are only talking about deaths in this House, at least this time we are talking about the birth of a child. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u19	The Presidency agrees. Congratulations to the Minister for the birth of the baby.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u20	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u21	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:21 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 948-B, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Burtone and others, Vendola and others, Francesco Sanna and others, Micillo and others, as amended by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Buemi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u23	Mr President, the draft law No 948 in the text adopted at the third reading in the House of Deputies consists of two articles: one on the rewording of the criminal case referred to in Article 416-b, as well as the other on the offence of political-mafioso electoral exchange, and the other on the entry into force on the day following that of publication in the Official Journal, so as to avoid the fifteen days of ordinary legislative vacacatio. With regard to the new changes introduced in the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to focus analytically on the three fundamental choices made in the other branch of Parliament, which have resulted in as many variations as in the text launched by the Senate. Firstly, it was decided to explore the concept of "any other utility," thus reducing one of the elements of exchange to the sole provision or promise of money or other utility. It may perhaps be agreed that the word 'any' should be deleted, which, in a provision introduced in the penal code, could leave room for some doubt both in respect of the necessary respect for the principles of taxableness and determination of the criminal cases and, on the other hand, taking into account the reference to different usefulness in the so-called criminal offences contracted and also in the crimes in which the conduct is supplemented by the achievement of a certain advantage. All of these cases bear an expression which is devoid of the indefinite adjective "anything." The second novelty, of undeniable importance, consists in the expression of the clause that referred to the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the association. Obviously, in the House of Deputies it was considered that the political-mafia electoral exchange could not be defined by reference to a certain extent to the characteristics which could be defined, such as the provision and satisfaction of the interests and needs of the association referred to in Article 416-a. From a systematic point of view, the elimination of this defining element of the trade agreement makes the case less linked to that provided for in Article 416-a, and thus reduces the possible overlaps with certain modes of consumption of the external competition in the Mafia association. Last but not least, there is the change in the sanctioning response (a given of a certain interest, which I would like to recall), which is now no longer equivalent to that envisaged for the Mafia association, but is more limited and consists of the sentence of imprisonment from four to ten years, against the previous edittal framework, approved by the Senate, which provided for the detention from seven to twelve years. I conclude by pointing out that, following the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, the provision provided for in the second paragraph has been confirmed, according to which the same penalty applies also to those who promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures referred to in the first paragraph. Therefore, it is to be considered that the bilateral symmetrical nature of the crime is now the subject of double conformity assessment by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u24	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. He asked to speak to introduce you to Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is called upon to examine draft law No 948-B. This draft law, concerning the crime of political mafia exchange, consists of two articles: one relating to the rewording of the criminal case referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code and the other, added to the Chamber of Deputies, which entered into force the day following that of the publication of the law in the Official Journal, so as to avoid the 15 days of ordinary vacacio legislation. The House of Deputies has made significant changes to the text dismissed by the Senate, first of all by deciding to expunge the reference to the concept of "any other utility," thus reducing one of the two elements of exchange only to the provision or promise of money or other utility. The Chamber has also removed the reference to the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the association, as referred to in Article 416-a, constituting a further defining element of the trade agreement. Finally, the sanctioning discipline has been amended, which is now no longer equivalent to that provided for the Mafia association, referred to in Article 416-a, but is more limited and consists of the sentence of imprisonment from four to ten years, against the previous edittal framework that provided for the detention from seven to twelve years. In parallel to the reduction of penalty, it is confirmed the provision provided for in paragraph 2, according to which the same penalty, as reduced by the Chamber, also applies to those who promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 of article 416-a. It must be borne in mind that the reduction of the sentence ordered by the Chamber has a twofold effect: on the one hand it reduces the penalty of imprisonment for both parties of the symmetrical bilateral crime (i.e. the promitter or dispenser and the person who accepts the promise or the provision of votes) compared to what is currently provided for in Article 416-b, with effects - and this is the serious aspect - on the ongoing proceedings and on the same non-final sentences already imposed, as a consequence of the succession of the laws in time and the principle of retroactivity of the provisions of favor; on the other hand it poses, also by virtue of the confirmation of paragraph 2 of Article 416-b, an interpretative problem in relation to the possible overlap with the current paragraph 3 of Article 416-a, by virtue of which it is today punished with the imprisonment from seven to twelve years anyone, with reference to the association, obtains votes to himself or others in occasion of electoral consultations. [[Brusio]] Mr President, given the seriousness of the matter and the complexity of the technical issues dealt with in the draft law, perhaps more attention should be paid by the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u26	Colleagues, and I address above all those who are in the hemicycle, we allow Senator Giarrusso to illustrate the suspensive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u27	GIARRUSSO (M5S). The antinomy that risks to be determined can certainly not be said to be peacefully surpassable according to the discipline of the contest of crimes - we are in fact in the presence of two articles, 416- bis and 416-ter, which sanction the same conduct with different penalties, one of which, of course, lighter than the other - by virtue of which the Mafia subject will respond not only for the promise to obtain votes but also for the association. This is because, in the presence of offences that are easily overlapping if not homogeneous, the penalty treatment of the formal competition would not lead to legal cumulation and, therefore, the application of the penalty provided for the most serious increased crime, but a mitigation of the same. We are in fact in the presence of two similar conducts sanctioned differently, which involves delicate interpretative problems. In any case, these are profiles that deserve proper study, not made possible by the process that is intended to follow with this planning of the work. The internal contradiction of the provision is also evident where, on the one hand, reference is made to the methods of conduct provided for in Article 416-a, and on the other hand, the attachment to the same Article 416-a is removed only on the penalty side. In this way a formal and material unity is broken that the legislation in force had preserved and that the jurisprudence, even constitutional, had confirmed since the institution of the crime by impulse of John Falcone. In essence, the offences referred to in Articles 416-b and 416-a are closely linked. In the Anti-Mafia Commission we had the hearings of the magistrates of the district prosecutors anti-Mafia, who were all in agreement and unanimous in reporting that there is no Mafia association possible without the competition and the effective contribution of politics. The mob association is ontologically lacking. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To release the vote of exchange from the sanction of the Mafia association means to separate these two cases, to strike at the heart the evolution of the case law that was formed at this point and to hit the idea that presided over article 416-ter in force that was of John Falcone. The fragmentation of electoral crimes - taking into account the presence in the system also of corruption and electoral constraint - also operates unreasonably with regard to the subjective element. If the effects of the decrease on the member of the Mafia association are the subject of opposing interpretations, they are certain with regard to the candidate. In any case, the politician comes to benefit from a substantial reduction in the penalty which, as far as the minimum penalty is concerned, reaches the limits of half-life - colleagues, we are at the limits of half-life - so that, even where legal aid could apply to individual cases, it results in unequal treatment. Which, by our order, can only be resolved for the benefit of the deed. On these questions of application it does not appear that it was possible, for the timing of the examination imposed - let us remember that it was a raid in the Committee of the Nine, since in the Chamber the Justice Commission had hesitated the text voted to the Senate, therefore without any civil and democratic debate - to carry out an adequate cognitive and informative activity with particular reference to the assessment of the impact on the pending judgments. Furthermore, it seems inappropriate that it is impossible to sanction the counterpart of the promise to obtain votes, consisting in the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the Mafia association, urged by the erroneous interpretation of the norm for the alleged practical difficulty of isolating a certain and however autonomous field of application compared to the other cases, despite such conducts already been contemplated and consolidated at the legal level. Nor, precisely because of the solid case law of the united sections, is there any room for interference with the external competition. With regard to taxability, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court has pronounced itself in the sense of constitutional illegitimacy for violation of the principle of sufficient determination of the criminal case in a very limited number of cases, as there are far more judgments rejecting questions raised on the basis of the same principle. Such elimination, together with the mitigation of the ulterior usefulness - with non-capital content - that can be given or promised, risks to reduce the same innovative scope of the object of the exchange, because important part of the jurisprudence has considered, already in current legislation, to recognize the crime also in cases in which the performance of the politician has as object not the money, but any other asset however endowed with a value of exchange in terms of immediate economic commeasurement. There is therefore also a loss of an element of extension of the character of the utility and symmetry with, for example, the current article 246 of the penal code, which, in the matter of corruption, has a formula "money" or any utility, completely homogeneous to that which the Senate, in a strengthening sense, had deliberated on the point. The strongly critical judgment on the changes made by the House with regard to sanctions is due to the fact that the new formulation risks compromising the same aim of a more complete and effective action of contrast to the grey area, in which the interests of the mafia cross the political-institutional level, which has accompanied the genesis of article 416-b and can have cascade effects both in reference to the limitation terms and with reference to the application of the ancillary measure of the ban from the public offices, with particular reference to the perpetual prohibition. It is noted, even more strongly, how the lack of adequate cognitive elements in relation to the effects of the norm can result in a resolution not conscious and in any case deleterious, instead requiring more adequate spaces of deepening in the investigation of the Commission in the referent. We therefore propose, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, to postpone the discussion and examination of the draft law 948-B until the precise definition by the Ministry of Justice of the persons benefiting from the reduction of the penalty provided for in the draft law in question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u28	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak in the debate on the suspensive issue for no more than ten minutes. As there are no requests for intervention, we shall proceed to the vote on the suspensive issue. I put to the vote the question of suspensive QS1, raised by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u30	I welcome you as the Group's new Secretary of Parliament and wish you well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u31	I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, thank you. I started yesterday with a great day. Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry to start with a denial, but I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u32	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Aldo Moro) of Mornico al Serio, in the province of Bergamo (i.e. a double applause). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u33	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u34	Mr President, I want to make a political statement, because we will have all morning to discuss this measure technically. This Parliament is following a very intense schedule: yesterday we gave a part of national sovereignty to France for a work involving mafia infiltrations; yesterday afternoon we heard Mr Verdini recommend that we buy anti-interception instruments, and today we vote on a measure that had had a virtuous process and then collapsed on the arrival line. In practice, we will be able, with the withdrawal of the penalty discount to politicians who buy votes, to grant one even to the mobsters who sell them to them. It's an incredible process: in January I had an operation... [[Brusio]] If you want to shout more: yesterday I already showed my ability to sing, vocal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I was saying that, in January, I made a speech where I praised this House and this Parliament for having managed to complete the vote on a measure which had had been a useful step both in the debate and in the votes. In the debate in the Senate Commission we were able to find a text shared with both the PD and other colleagues: it seemed that we were able to bring home results beyond the majority and minority groups, in the interest and for the good of the country. The text arrived at the Chamber was not completely shared, especially by associations. I would like to remind you that I mentioned 'The future', 'Freedom' and the civil society that had brought forward proposals: proposals that we had drawn up and had been transposed into a text that was critical, which had then been resolved. Alas, I have been in this House for a year and perhaps I am a little naive, a bit naive. In fact, colleagues who have been here for fifteen, twenty or thirty years had remained quite algid and cold, because they evidently knew that the price to pay was to destroy the effectiveness of this measure and that this knot would come to the comb sooner or later. And in fact, here we are. In the meantime, I have abandoned the Justice Commission, so I have not been able to follow the latest developments, but they have been told to me by my colleagues. We find ourselves again with many beautiful proposals, but in the end with a text that basically is a compromise to keep your place in here, on your armchairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Lowering the sentence is a blasphemy. As soon as I was elected, I thought I was not adequate because I did not have a preparation for legal studies but only literary ones. Today I realize that I am very adequate, because just have a bit of honesty and common sense to understand something like this on the fly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If the penalty for the offence referred to in 416-b is reduced, the penalty referred to in 416-a will also be reduced. It is a scandalous thing that should be explained exactly to the citizens. The problem is that I don't think you have the courage to do it, because you are deeply ashamed of it. How ashamed you are to be dissidents in your parties. Make democrats, those who make proposals because there is debate within certain parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] While in ours not: we stand at the window watching. Moreover, the approval of the bill in the Senate had been brought home thanks to the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group, the corrections proposed by the 5 Star Movement Group, obviously along with the other political forces (I am not saying that we are the best in the class, but certainly the most honest in the class). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Outside this House, in the election campaign I will tell him that the gentlemen who sell themselves as innovators today will vote for a measure that has made again monk and inadequate to punish - evidently because it is close to the election campaign - one of the worst vices of this country: the mafia vote exchange. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Congratulations. Happy birthday to you all. I don't know how you sleep at night. Evidently, or take drops. [[Comments from the PD Group]] or you have enough hair on your stomach to care about this country's interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from Senators Fornaro and Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u35	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u36	Mr President, the text that has been sent to us by the House of Members is certainly a downside compromise. From this Senate a legislation had emerged, as a whole, certainly useful in the fight against mafia organized crime, certainly as perfect as all criminal legislation. In fact, no criminal law can be perfect by definition and no serious jurist could seriously say that a criminal law is perfect. The text comes back to us from the House which has been substantially amended in two important areas: a reduction in the penalty of a certain size, above all, has been cancelled the provision in the relations between politics and organised crime. As members of the Justice Commission, we have not shared the changes made by the House of Deputies, so much so that we have tabled two of our amendments to propose the reinstatement of the text adopted in the Senate, which we have also discussed in the Commission. We do not agree with the two amendments, for the reasons I shall briefly mention. I am starting from the second amendment, namely the deletion of the availability of the politician to the mobster. I believe that outside this Parliament, and the Senate in particular, they have not properly and thoroughly read the legislation and that, in any case, the text we proposed has not been well considered. The availability of the politician to the mobster was in fact a third hypothesis of crime which was added to the other two, which were confirmed and specified, and thus gave the possibility to widen the fight against crime in relation to a behaviour that, moreover, interpretation and judicial and judicial applications had already confirmed. It was basically a kind of external competition in mob association. In this general situation, entrusted only to the interpretation of the judge, we as senators tried to type (to put it technically), to formalize this particular type of external competition in Mafia association. This was done precisely to give a greater guarantee and to give less room for free interpretation, therefore in a absolutely guaranteed sense. That is, it was a more precise identification of the criminal behavior that was being punished. Certainly the text, like all the texts, could be improved. In our view, eliminating this possibility is a mistake. Therefore, from a proposal out of the Senate of greater guarantees, we return to a text that, once again, offers less guarantees and leaves, as some intervening prosecutors say, more room for free interpretations, with all that follows. The second sensitive point, in some respects even more serious, is that concerning the lowering of the penalty, not only and not so much for technical reasons, but above all for reasons of social and political order. The signal that is being sent out outside Parliament is negative, because with this lowering of the penalty, it means that the politician who is colliding with the mafia is being punished less. We can't afford this signal. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] : this is the most delicate point. Certainly there will be some disruptions and even a technical deterioration of the endoprocessional, because if we reason in the matter of prescription or in the matter of ban from the public offices, especially the perpetual one, there is a lowering of the level of guard. But I repeat, especially the political-social signal we give to the outside world is negative. What will we do, as a Democratic Party and as senators of the Democratic Party? We realize that we are facing a very important crossroads, because at the moment it is a question of bringing into force legislation, such as this one on the vote on the political exchange of mafias, certainly positive also in the text that has arrived at us, certainly not complete, certainly improved. However, we must choose: do we bring it into force immediately or do we postpone it with a possible even small amendment to the Chamber of Deputies, with the very real risk, already announced, of returning everything to the Greek calende and not leaving this story after a fourth reading? It is a responsibility that we take, at first instance, being the first signatory of two amendments, and also the other signatories of these two amendments, saying that we, in our view, must give priority to the entry into force of this law. That is why I formally withdraw the two amendments that I have tabled, in order to avoid the risk of referring everything back to the Greek calende. However, we reiterate that the text that will come out, if it is finally approved in this formalization also by the Senate, is however an important step in the fight against organised crime compared to the current text, which dates back more than twenty years (1992-1993). I repeat and finish. They had come out of the Senate from the previous reading three hypothesis of criminal behavior punished: two remain. The third hypothesis of criminal behavior is punishable by the jurisprudential interpretation that continues to be given. As we were reminded of statements by the same Government, which also pointed out to the Chamber (in particular the Undersecretary present), anyone, even without being a mafia, will be made available to the Mafia, however, will be punished as an external competition in Mafia association, when the behavior has facilitated the mafia, according to the interpretations in particular of multiple judgments of the Court of Cassation, and, in particular, of a judgment of the United Sections. Certainly the text is positive, certainly it is better, but our sense of responsibility tells us that this is an important part in the fight against the mafia, and for this reason we will decide to vote the bill in a favourable way. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u37	I inform you that the amendments previously withdrawn by Senator Casson have been taken over by Senators Giarrusso, Cappelletti and Buccarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u38	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u39	Mr President, we are witnessing yet another page of the great paradox, of the surreal. The text of the law on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, fired by the Senate a few weeks ago and on which the majority of parliamentarians, in the Justice Commission and in the Chamber, had reached in agreement a unified vision on a rule that was really incisive and capable of affecting the phenomenon that is perhaps the basis of the political, economic and social degradation of our country, that is, the delicate moment in which representative democracy, even with all its limitations deriving from the political and party system, is attacked and infiltrated by the worst part of the country, that of the mafias, of the criminal organizations that are now appering the body of this country as a tumor, has been changed. The 5 Star Movement was pleased to have given its contribution to the implementation of a regulation, the one dismissed by the Senate, which really filled a normative vacuum with respect to the current legislation, which we know to punish today only the giving of money as an element of exchange by virtue of a promise of votes. We were happy because, for once, even bearing in mind the false accusations made against us of not wanting to cooperate, of just wanting to protest and of being in Rome without doing anything, we had shown, as on other occasions, that we had the greatest willingness to cooperate with the other political forces, without any ideological prejudice. That majority had therefore been created capable of finally modifying that article by understanding any other usefulness as a hypothesis of mafia political exchange. At the express suggestion of our Group, it was also introduced into the legislation the conduct consisting in the so-called making available of the politician, knowing well that the exchange between mafia and politics does not necessarily and immediately consist with money, contracts or appointments, but also with the simple awareness that that person, put to the Municipality, the Region, Rome or Europe, is one of ours, therefore a person who owes us something and to whom we can ask something. We were pleased to have restored the edittal penalty of Article 416-b to the right extent, at least equivalent to that provided for in Article 416-a, i.e. an edittal penalty ranging from seven to twelve years. We were satisfied and were curious to see what would happen to the House. This is what happened to the House last week is the plastic picture of the great lie, of the enslavement also of the best consciences of the Palace, of the best consciences of our colleagues of other parties, forced to bow their heads to the orders coming from above. What happened in a week? Why did colleagues from the parties who had voted with us suddenly have to reverse the position by one hundred and eighty degrees, making a series of pirouettes? What has been said to them in order to impose a change that has completely changed the text of the article and therefore its incriminating scope? We know what your colleagues, honourable Members of the Democratic Party, have done to the House! The edittal penalty has been reduced and, to the extent indicated now, it will be much more difficult, if not impossible, possibly to apply the protective measures, those to which we have also shown the greatest willingness with a view to improving the structural framework. What happened? Why? Explain it to us. We are tired of hearing from you the technique of 'wish' but I cannot, as has happened here today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We can also accept the excuse that you must approve a text as it is, even if you do not like it, we agree: at least, however, let us explain why the MPs of the Democratic Party must clearly submit to a higher political will, which also has to do with the government accelerator, which imposes a upheaval and frankly a figure that in the eyes of the Italian citizens I do not know how they will be able to defend. Why has that indefinite adjective been removed that I will then talk about? That is another curious thing, because the political debate, including in the press, has been concerned mainly with the amount of the sentence, which has fallen dramatically, since it has been reduced by as much as 42%, which is no small thing. The political debate was interested in the figure of making available, because we have been told that this was a little determined behaviour, that, according to the criterion of exhaustiveness of the criminal rules - which we know very well - the contours were blurred and that, therefore, it could have given rise to problems of interpretation and application in courtrooms. Here, too, our reply was that, even if it had been true that on the making available and availability of the elected or elected to favour the Mafia, the conduct could not have been clearly delimited, the jurisprudence, once the rule came into force, would certainly have brought all the terms in concrete cases back to the individual situations. That rule would have been born, grown up and lived in the manner in which the courts and the right of defence would have permitted it. However, there is a third point, as I said, about which little has been said, or rather, it seems to me that there has been no talk at all: I refer to the word "whatever" which, in front of the speech "other utility," in the passage from the Senate to the House has disappeared. Let me explain better: the text of the norm punishes those who accept the promise to obtain votes, through the procedures referred to in Article 416- bis of the penal code, in exchange for the payment or promise of money or any other utility. This was the text we voted in the Senate. In the text which we should approve today - or rather, which you would like to approve in this way - the word 'anything' disappears. So, today, the text of the bill before us reads as follows: "In exchange for the payment or promise of money or other utility." Why, then, has the indefinite adjective "anything" disappeared? We do not know, but we have tried to imagine it: because it would expand the concept, allowing us to say that the politician "corrupt" by the mafia would have had to answer for this crime even if the counterperformance had not been neither money nor another thing measurable in economic terms. I can explain even better: if it is true that already today on the article in force the jurisprudence succeeds to extend the field of application beyond the supply of money, reconstructing a logical discourse of enrichment of economic type, that "anyone" that we had proposed to insert and that had entered the norm of which we are talking would have allowed, for example, to incriminate also the exchange that could take place through the proposal of a name to put on a list or a nomination to a council member in a municipal or regional council or in Parliament. In short, it would have included all those counter-performances that the elected politician with the votes of the Mafia should have supported, but that cannot be quantified in economic or monetary terms: this would have served that "anything". Then why take it off? Perhaps because someone wants to have the free hands to move during the election campaign, for these European elections and perhaps also for the next elections, to be able to continue the exchange system that provides for the support of dark powers, the worst, economic-mafia powers, in exchange for the insertion on the electoral lists or appointments to council members or on the boards of directors of the participating societies: in short, where the sick politics, which you represent to a large extent, operates and maintains itself to the detriment of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The great mystery of the missing adjective can only be explained this way: there is someone who wants to have his hands free to continue to manage politics, in territorial and national areas, in the same, usual old way, without having to answer criminally. It is clear that we cannot accept this. Here I once again claim a characteristic that distinguishes us, that of being free, because the decisions we take, even with the risk of being wrong, have as their point of reference exclusively the interest of the country and the citizens. So we're free to say that this bill is a piece of shit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and that if it came into force so, without any change, it would have the paradoxical effect of making the situation worse than the current one. In fact, by virtue of the sacred principle of favour, in the case of two rules that punish in a different way the same conduct or conduct similar, the judge must apply the one most favorable to the accused. Therefore, according to this principle, in the ongoing proceedings for the crime referred to in 416-b, you will obtain the effect of facilitating the definition of alternative rites and of making more difficult the issue of precautionary measures and, however, the penalties imposed will necessarily be diminished. In fact, those who went on trial with a minimum sentence of seven years, from tomorrow, thank you, can continue that trial with a minimum sentence of four years. This sense of shame, which should involve your individual consciences, before the political forces you represent, I hope will give you the strength, when we begin the examination of the amendments, to analyze the various proposals and try to save, together with us, the salvageable from this legislation, at least by restoring the original edittal sentence (7-12 years). That's the minimum target. If it is not achieved, we tell you and the citizens will understand it, we will go to the squares of Italy, as it has already been happening for a few weeks, every Saturday and every Sunday. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , from Trentino-Alto Adige to Sicily, to tell the truth. We will tell this truth not only on the Internet, but on the streets and squares, and we will not do discounts to anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We'll give you a chance. Save your consciences. Save the country. Don't bow your head. Reappropriate your freedom and your conscience. Vote at least for the amendment that can make it digest the fact that this legislation, if you want it, because you are a majority, will be fired. We make it in time, even for this European campaign. We'll give you a chance. Take advantage of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u40	I greet the delegation of the Italian Federation of Women in the arts, professions and business (Sicilia district), which is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u42	Mr President, behind me is a colleague who had written on the computer display: "Out of the Mafia from the State" This colleague is absolutely right, but the Mafia must be eliminated wherever it is. Out with the mob and mobsters from the theaters! Outside the mob and the mobsters from ASL! Outside the mob and mobsters from the Red Regions! In fact, wherever there is evil we are faced with associations that certainly do not make the interest of the country. Yesterday, Mr President, a citizen asked me what majority there was in Parliament. I don't know what majority there is. In fact, if we talk about justice issues, the majority here at least in the Senate is constituted by the Democratic Party with the 5 Star Movement. We, who are in the Justice Commission as well as Senator Caliendo, see it every day, together with SEL's colleagues, and it is a different majority from the one in the House. I made this reference because this provision came to us from the House approved by a different majority from the present one. In fact, at first reading it was unanimously approved by 504 of the 504 Members present: by Forza Italia, 5 Star Movement and including the Democratic Party. It was that measure that was intended to be demolished, that measure that someone who claims to be anti-mafia wanted to include and ensure that it was not approved, because it had been unanimously approved, and here, first in the Committee on Justice and then in the Chamber, the majority other than that of the House made it lapse. We have sent back to the House another measure, with the vote against by many Groups, because the vote in favour was only that of the Mixed Group, the 5 Star Movement Group and the Democratic Party, a measure that has found another majority in the House, which therefore has resorted to it and has returned it to us, and now we see what is happening with the obstructionism that we have already been able to touch with our hands in the Justice Commission yesterday. We are critical of this measure, because it is populist and that's it. It was a measure that was good at first reading and that wanted to change to make the electoral campaign for the European elections: nothing more and nothing less. On the other hand, I can think of the saying: "Who is the cause of his own evils, let him weep for himself." So those who tear their clothes off in this House today, filling their mouths with anti-mafia, I am convinced that they know you very well, too well. Finally, Mr President, I can think of a sentence by Bertolt Brecht, which I mentioned by heart last night in the Commission: "Don't look like what you are, it's a disgrace to yourself. Looking like you're not, it's a disgrace to others. I believe that those who practice obstructionism in Parliament today are truly a disgrace to the Italian people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u43	Mr President, 'Every penalty must derive from an absolute necessity to defend the general good': these words, paraphrased, evoke a common feeling, that is, the need to give the right social value to the crimes and the penalties resulting from them. In this change of the bill, of right and of defense of the common good there is nothing. If we are faced with a discourse of legitimacy and benevolence, we do not understand how we continue in an unceasing way to delegate, manage and benefit from discounts, conduct and protection against those who consciously act as procacciator of votes. This Parliament is obviously deaf and blind, does not listen to citizens and does not take care of the common good, prefers to conceal antithetical ideas and proportions, selling them as right and fair when it is also aware that, in reality, it is often just an empty box of good and rotten. The defensive walls erected in defense of this change, of the modification of such a sensitive norm of our order, appear made of paper. The legislator who amended this rule, on the one hand, integrates the material element of the crime by extending the number of punishable conducts and, on the other hand, reduces the scope of the amendment by mitigating the sanction. Predicting reduced penalties and the non-penalty for the simple making available of the politician to the mob before obtaining the votes, is a normative choice undoubtedly conceived, studied and wanted, and certainly not to protect the community, but for a good: that of politicians. A politician, gentlemen, cannot be at the disposal of the Mafia and its votes. To think of such a rule, which provides for the reduction in the minimum and maximum of the insurmountable penalty, means, in other words, to kill Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. The political-mafia exchange must be punished and not encouraged, never, and in any case it cannot even be thought of. The fact that this crime was included by the legislator in Title V of Book II of the Criminal Code, among the crimes against public order, is not a coincidence. The legal good that the norm intends to safeguard is the interest in the protection of public order, whose injury through the disturbing union between mafia and politics is an atrocity. How, then, can one think, in the face of such a serious crime, of reducing the sentence rather than tightening it up? Judge Giovanni Falcone wanted the rule, which was not certain of this notice. Judge Falcone had different rules in mind, punishing anyone who associated with or cooperated with the mob. This new text favours collusive politicians, who will be able to use this rule as a shield: a shield to obtain and continue to obtain votes with the help of the Mafia. The politicians I am talking about, gentlemen, are certainly not abstract but well-defined figures: they are people who also sit in this Parliament. Let them be ashamed, ashamed for their conduct, in contempt not only of the interest of the citizens, but also of the ethics that should, first of all, animate their work. The facts speak for themselves. What happens with this legislation? In addition to the reduction of the minimum edittale from 7 to 4 years and a maximum of 12 to 10 years, the penalty for making available is reduced. I would like to understand what is the ratio of a reduction in the amount of the sentence and who benefits. To the citizens? To the safety of the citizens? Public order? It is obvious that reducing the amount of penalty reduces the deterrent effect of the sanction while at the same time emptying the crime in question. To reduce the pain to fight the Mafia means to renounce to fight it permanently; it means that institutions open the door that was previously ajar. 11:16 a.m. (Serra followed). The truth is that the State is less and less State and that John Falcone was again wounded to death. But wasn't Renzi talking about 100 days of struggle to change Italy? Just a nice sign of change for a crime that has marked the history of our country. There's no one listening. It doesn't matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u44	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u45	Mr President, I am one of those who, when the Senate fired this text, looked carefully and favorably at our work, especially with regard to certain passages that had been inserted. I considered the call for availability to be positive and correct, considering the latter the paradigm through which the relationship between politics and the mafia is manifested, and often consolidated, since in many cases it is the willingness to represent the permanent condition that the mafia needs in order to bend the politician to its own needs and interests. So I didn't have a negative judgment: on the contrary, I had looked positively at the text that came out of the Senate. Perhaps we can discuss whether this text is better and more effective than what has been discussed and approved in the House, but there is a fundamental point on which I would like us to clarify. The text dismissed by the Senate was clearly the subject of discussion, even outside Parliament. I hear in this House - and I also see an electoral propaganda being built on this - saying that the change in the House is a favor for the Mafia, that we are all collusion and that they are all mafias (I heard it again yesterday, with some nervousness too). I hear this argument still going through the debate in this House. Then, at one o'clock: or they are all collusion, even the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority Raffaele Cantone... SERRA (M5S). Maybe. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Raffaele Cantone, on the other hand, said that those made to the House are changes that improve the text; even on a certainly delicate issue, the one relating to the lowering of penalties, he avoided playing the game, that is done here, talking to the belly of people, throwing to the public slogans of easy electoral consent. Instead, he tried to get a little more into the matter, to explain the difference and the need for a proportion between 416-a and 416-b; he tried to explain why some of the changes that were made at least made made made sense. Or he has collused, I said, the national anti-Mafia prosecutor Roberti, who spoke normally positive, are colluse all those associations that are asking us in these hours to make soon and to approve immediately this measure, or what is done is electoral propaganda; becera and cynical electoral propaganda. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-GAPp Groups and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]] I don't think that's the point. I already heard yesterday in this House a crawling electoral propaganda on the TAV, which targeted everyone, those in favour and those against, until the paradox of stopping speaking to a member of my Group who was intervening against the TAV and not in favour. Maybe because there is some nervousness on the part of colleagues of the 5 Star Movement [[Comments of Senator Petrocelli]] , who have discovered that there are significant exponents of the movement "No TAV" candidates with the Tsipras list, and perhaps gives them a bit of annoyance that they no longer have the monopoly of the struggle. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group, PD and Mixed-GAPp.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). Just to resume yesterday's controversy! We didn't let him talk, because when it comes to TAV, he doesn't talk. Forget it, talk about today's topic. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). You don't scare me anyway, colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, it seems to me that we have already addressed this issue yesterday. You too, Senator, support your arguments without stirring up... DE CHRISTOPHORO (Misto-SEL). The same cynical electoral propaganda... PETROCELLI (M5S). And keep going! De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). The same game that is being played in this country to speculate on the right concerns of public opinion and to seek easy consensus through simplified messages. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] I think that this Republican Parliament has a moral duty to tell the truth, to say that this morning's debate is a serious political debate, which can be discussed on the substance and on which we can also disagree. There are those who can think, like me, like Falcone, like Cantone and like Roberti, that the sentence goes from four to ten years. [[Comments of Senators Castaldi and Marton]] And there are those who may think that, instead, another type of punishment is better. GIARRUSSO (M5S). That's not true. You didn't know. Liar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, sit down and don't yell, let the senator do the surgery. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). To consider, however, who carries out a political thesis simply as someone who wants to do the Mafia a favor is unacceptable. I don't get intimidated, and I ask my colleagues to do the same. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-GAPp Groups.]] I belong to a party where there is no suspect for political-mafioso exchange vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). The phone call to Vendola... DE CRISTOFARO (Misto-SEL). We belong to a story of political militants and men and women, from Peppino Impastato onward, who shed blood for the fight against the mob. You don't allow yourself to think that the fight against the Mafia is your own problem. We will not let this attempt at simplification and electoral propaganda pass. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-GAPp Groups. Congratulations. Senators Marton and Petrocelli mimic with their hands the gesture of collusion between the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups.]] MARTON (M5S). You're the same thing! [[Senator Fornaro's lively comments]] Who are you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, Senator Caliendo has the word, not Senator Petrocelli, who has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u46	Mr President, I believe that we must all regain a moment of balance in assessing the draft law that is being proposed to the House. I believe that it must be clear what a politician who comes into contact with mafia or camorrist organizations does: he betrays himself, because he betrays politics and betrays what the politician's job is. We are playing here: watch out, the fight against the mob is not done with proclamations and declamations! The fight against the Mafia is not played, as Senator De Cristoforo now said, on issues aimed at earning an extra vote or one less vote [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , it is done exclusively by ensuring that there is a focus on politics and a disvalue that politics must express, in clear and strong letters, towards certain behaviors. If the House of Deputies and the Senate continue to be affected by this measure, this would make the public feel that it is not a disgrace to such behaviour and a certain position of political action, but a series of distinctions, which are not necessary and must not exist. I would just like to remind Members of the 5 Star Movement here that when the House of Deputies examined it at first reading, the measure was unanimously approved, including the vote of all members of the 5 Star Movement Group. Before the Senate discussion began, I had joined the so-called campaign of white bracelets. Even if this does not concern this problem, if you go to see what is written on the web, you will find that I have not joined this campaign: I say this to highlight the falseness of what is very often read on the web. On my own I began to criticize the measure voted unanimously by the Chamber of Deputies: Senator Giarrusso is a witness. In the Committee on Justice I said that the second paragraph was wrong, because it concerned the mobster who had already put in place attitudes and behavior punishable under the third paragraph of Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code, so it was not necessary to provide for a different penalty, since the criminality already provided for under that Article. That is why I tabled an amendment deleting the second paragraph. In the same way, the problem of avoiding the conflict, which still exists today at the level of the Court of Cassation, has arisen between the interpretation that it is necessary that there is a participant in the Mafia association and that for which it is not enough that there is a participant, but it is necessary that there is a leader, who has the possibility of influencing the association. For this reason - my colleagues will remember - we have discussed the need to introduce an awareness of the quality of the participant, thus increasing the threshold. At the Senate, during the previous reading of the bill he wanted to give an indication, as if the availability were not already punished. Today the crime of external competition allows to punish availability: it is already punished. And the wording adopted by the Senate was not criticized by Forza Italia, the Democratic Party or colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, but was criticized by anti-Mafia magistrates, which led the House of Deputies to correct the text again. Senator Cappelletti, there would have been ten or twenty anti-Mafia magistrates who criticized the rule, considering the possibility of an interpretative difficulty by the judge who could have encountered problems in ensuring the evaluation not of specific behavior but of positions that could only be subjective. In the light of these statements, the House made a correction to the text of the draft law, which, in my view, was wrong not to delete the second paragraph of Article 416-b, which must therefore be interpreted today (we discussed this last night in the Commission). Indeed, since this paragraph runs counter to Article 416- bis (3) it must be interpreted in a certain way, and I hope that what I am saying here today in the context of the preparatory work may be of some value to the legislative interpreter. The third paragraph of Article 416- bis will in any case punish those who come into contact with the Mafia associations. The second paragraph of Article 416-b should therefore be interpreted as meaning that a person who promises to obtain votes without being a mobster is punished. This gives us the opportunity to correctly interpret the norm. Everyone knows that I was one of Giovanni Falcone's closest friends and that I advised him and induced him to go to the education office in Palermo, but I never quote him; I hope everyone does the same [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , because people should be mentioned when they have elements of evaluation and knowledge. Today there is a perspective: a rule is adopted that finally, after years, identifies the vote of exchange when there is not only the passage of money but also any other usefulness. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] Do not tell me that the word "anything" has been deleted. I have been a magistrate for forty years; the expression "other utility" was not included in the legislation, which the Court of Cassation has always had to interpret by supporting the existence of a useful economic assessment, therefore linked to money. Today, on the other hand, the rule requires that there be a vote of exchange, both when there is a transfer of money and when there is other usefulness, with an adverse formula. It is said that money or other utility is provided, not of any other utility. This means that it is any other useful thing: it is useless for us to dwell on this. Then we will see from the practical application of the norm who is right, but I believe that there is no doubt about this. Today, however, the interpretative difficulty of the second paragraph arises. I agree with Senator Casson's remarks, not because he has given an indication of political opportunity: I share them because I am concerned every time we discuss anti-mafia rules. The anti-mafia rules support not only the regulatory technique, the possibility of interpretation, but much support the political force that supports a given position. Today, when we are about to vote for the European Parliament and for the municipal councils of 4,000 and broken municipalities where the vote is to be preferred, it is necessary to ensure that this law comes into force as soon as possible and has the political strength of an entire Parliament. I invite you, and I also share some of the observations of the Five Star Movement... SANTANGELO (M5S). Vote for it then! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). My invitation to the Five Star Movement is to vote and commit to making this rule a qualitative leap. Politics puts a wall between us and those who are mafias, between us and the behaviour of deviant politicians. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] That is the point, and for this reason we must achieve it as soon as possible and not delay it further. Take this into account [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] from a political point of view. Let's think about what happens in families: if the educational indication on the part of parents is not clear and precise but swinging, it doesn't convince even the minor. Do you think that creating oscillations between politics and this interpretation or playing on a technical issue for a vote more or less can have an educational influence on society stronger than that which is the political evaluation of an entire political body that says no? That is the point: we must say no to any kind of relationship. I'm not interested, if you want, in the reference to money, in the usefulness: I'm interested that you agree that you have to close any kind of relationship. We must not even remotely accept what we see in some environments, what there is in some municipalities, where the so-called mafia pax reigns, which is nothing but the complete control of the territory. The battle we have fought for the revision of the districts and to make some corrections was also made for this, to ensure a strong response of justice and the state. The state is not the mob. Institutions are different. At the same time, we must ensure that the institutions function: at a time when they do not work, the Mafia presents itself as a criminal counterpower and replaces them. My appeal is as follows: with all the problems and doubts that I have referred to, we are voting for this measure. Of course, I'm not 100% satisfied. PUGLIA (M5S). So? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But I have to ensure that Parliament really wants a serious fight against the mob, which is not done by saying a word more or less. MARTON (M5S). Then put it on! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). A colleague from the House of Deputies made a very appropriate remark (this is Mrs Rossomando, who is not part of my group). She said that it is not a matter of making clear rules or guaranteeing only rules of chatter, but of establishing rules for obtaining convictions and convictions that are based on a clear rule of true opposition to the Mafia. 11:29 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). I believe we can discuss this for fifty hours, but in the end only if the rule comes into force as soon as possible will it have that educational function of the society to which I referred first. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u47	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the content of the debate we are holding in this House - as has also been the case in the Commission - how important this issue is. I think it is also important to bring back the comparison on the tracks of an absolute seriousness and a certainly technical-juridical component. I can only share the words used by Senator Caliendo when he says that we must deal with the problem with a united political force. In fact, we are talking about Mafia crimes, which are really serious crimes that we regret to have to talk about again in 2014, when we think that the degree of civilization now achieved can lead us to believe that the Mafia no longer exists. Speaking of Mafia crime instead means recognizing the existence of this phenomenon and that it must be fought with all the necessary weapons. A fundamental weapon is politics, to think that we must all be strongly united in pursuing the objective of having rules that actually lead to effective and applicable convictions. I am sorry to see, therefore, that, at times, the comparison seems directed at dividing those who are mafias from those who are not mafias in this House. This is not acceptable; it is not acceptable that they should be made, even veiled, of the accusations of mixing this House with the Mafia. If that were the case, then we wouldn't even have to talk anymore. To say that politics is confused with the Mafia means to completely destabilize all the rules of our civil life, our democratic rules and the rules that govern our constitutional Republic. I therefore hope that the discussion and the subject of which we are debating will be technical, calm and aimed at recovering a regulation that is, as was said before, highly effective. Illations, smoke and even muddling this House are things that hurt us and the people and people who listen to us and see us first and foremost. We must preserve the value of the institution and try to enhance the work of the politician. It is a moment of great distrust of the people in the function of the politician and we are all called to be particularly diligent and to keep up the decorum and the goodness of what we are and do, and not to think, as in the common way of seeing, that being a politician means being manicated, having the money hidden and intertwined, being unserious people. All the more so, we must all be particularly serious, honest and correct, of an almost exasperated rigor. This is what we must demonstrate to the people who follow us and listen, who expect us to carry out all the necessary and most appropriate activities for our country to be properly managed and, above all, immune from the infiltration of the mob. Entering the merits of the bill, it is strange to see that these readings have continually altered the scope of the forecast. When the text came from the House we found ourselves with a text approved unanimously, as if no one had raised any doubt or dispute over the content. There was talk of getting votes, full awareness of the politician and the penalty was four to ten years. In my opinion, in this House - I do not do this to say that we are better at it - we had drafted a text which is highly acceptable. There was an attempt to develop further instruments for the enforcement of the rules, i.e. the judiciary. The House of Deputies has thought of introducing a further amendment, and we are now having a wide-ranging debate on these changes concerning the lowering of the sentence, with the considerations that have been made mainly by the judiciary engaged in the fight against the mafia. We in the North League are only going to comment on one point, and in this respect we will be voting on the amendments, but we have not tabled them on this measure. The reason is as follows: we are aware of the imminence of the electoral consultation and we consider it very appropriate that this measure should enter into force, which, even as formulated by the House, certainly offers appropriate instruments which must be immediately applicable. I repeat, for this reason we have not tabled any amendments, but we are asking ourselves the question of the worsening of the penalty, and in this sense we shall vote in favour of those proposals which wish to amend this part. The Group of the North League has made great battles through our Minister Maroni, who had prepared a very effective system that has achieved great goals. For this reason, I say to those who have raised doubts, that we, as far as we are concerned, sleep quiet nights and have nothing on our consciences, as it should be for anyone who comes into this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u49	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo statale (State Understanding Institute) "Roberto Rimini" of Acitrezza-Ficarazzi, in the province of Catania. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u51	Mr President, I have prepared a speech that traces the parliamentary history of this bill and I will present it fairly quickly, and then respond to some statements made by Senators De Cristofaro and Caliendo. The bill amending article 416-b of the penal code, in the version last approved by the Chamber, is substantially different from the one originally approved by the Chamber itself on 16 July and the one issued by the Senate. That text, which then the Senate had profoundly modified, provided that it was sanctioned by imprisonment from four to ten years anyone, in exchange for the provision of money or other utility, consciously accepted the taking of votes by a third party, with the modalities proper to the mob association, and, unlike the current legislation, the seeker of votes. I would like to stress that the fundamental themes expressed in the first text of the Chamber were summarized in some criteria, for example that of awareness and that of obtaining the promise as a consummate moment of the crime. In addition, the limit on the need for money was exceeded, and in that text the penalty for imprisonment was reduced from four to ten years. From the text that emerged from the first reading in the Senate instead disappeared, compared to the text approved by the Chamber, the reference to awareness, was anticipated the threshold of punishable crime, confirmed the possibility of any utility and also - a fundamental aspect - the willingness to satisfy the interests and needs of the mob association; finally, the sanctioning limits were reported to those in force. Then we returned to the Chamber at second reading, in which the possibility is reiterated that the subject of the exchange is not only the provision of money, but also, again, the promise of other utility. The further forecast of willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association is deleted. It confirms the bilateral structure of the crime and the sanctionability of the one who promises or obtains votes. However, the penalty limits initially provided for by the House return, lowering those now in force and related to the famous seven and twelve years. In essence, the reduction of the sentence, required by those same political forces who want to type the external contest and reduce the penalty, could illogically reduce the effectiveness of a sanction aimed at protecting democratic life with respect to the mafia conditioning, and this could lead to possible confusion about the will of the legislator. I would like to stress here, therefore, that the work carried out by the two Chambers, whether it is said, or rather, whatever you say, seems to be anything but in vain. A work that goes far beyond simple readings or ratifications and that clearly mentions the democratic nature of the two institutions. I would now move from a technical plan to a more political plan. I used the term 'Palese' to close my remarks with a note on our choice in the past to pursue the so-called obvious vote. The clear vote when it came to voting for the non-validation of the election of the condemned Berlusconi meant at the time, and still means that our intervention in this House is free from all external conditioning, and perhaps the importance of our request was not well understood at the time. This is true today also and especially in the various other institutions of our country, whether regional or municipal. It is no coincidence that I omitted the words "provincial institutions" because, as you anesthetically tried to make us believe, the Provinces seem that they no longer exist. We should then consider what will happen, for example, for all the elections that do not provide for direct participation by citizens, even in the light of today's approval. The 5 Star Movement is not made up of appointed characters, nor elected by pressure; we are not sent and we do not have representatives, we do not have behind us lobbying and we do not have transversal currents: our vote has always been as clear as our actions, and it will be for this reason that the citizens will still vote for us. I shall conclude by responding to the statements made by Senator De Cristofaro. I would like to stress the fact that politics must not necessarily mean mystifying reality. For us of the 5 Star Movement, politics, the one with the capital "P" (and we are proud to hear ourselves in this Chamber of politicians because we have never been representatives of anti-politics, because being anti-politics is like waking up in the morning and saying that we are against geography: it is impossible) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] is one of the greatest expressions of the human being. We have rediscovered the beauty of being political, the beauty of being elected, of being chosen, of also being leaders. Why not? We walk the streets, people are happy, we shake hands and we get patted on our shoulders. We have rediscovered that politics is a beautiful expression. This human activity can be synthesized with many words, even important ones. One of these can be "coherence": coherence that must have parties, movements but also ourselves as individual political leaders. Coherence that should lead to equate situations and realities distant from each other as can be Valsusa and Taranto, or Campania, with the Land of fires, and Crotone or Trieste. That is the coherence we are trying to propose, and that is what we want to see in the political class. Politics also means being aware and the first, precisely because we are guides, of what is happening in the country and also being proactive in the choices. The question we are asking ourselves these days is: why are we allowing the President of the Renzi Council to do what you would never have allowed, or at least we would never have allowed, the condemned Silvio Berlusconi to do? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The medal is always the same. You're looking at her from different sides, but we want a different medal. We don't want to look at this one on either side. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do not understand how it is possible to mystify reality in order to change meanings and to distort concepts. Article 416-b begins with an explanatory heading: "Mafia-political electoral change." There are two Italian words: "political" and "mafioso." What the Magistrate Cantone said, that is to say the fact that the Mafia association has not yet manifested itself, a consideration according to which it seems to have justified the reduction of punishment, we hope it is not simply a singing. But what we support is that we should probably think about the concept of a politician, that is, when political activity is manifested, whether before or after the elections. We need to think carefully about what we are going to vote on this morning. I would like to close by reaffirming the concept that has just been expressed. The 5 Star Movement is free from all kinds of interest. We are free in our votes, and so we think it should be the ruling class of a civilized country as Italy should be. We have been elected without the pressure of any external force, and for this reason I can safely say that we must not respond to any external condition, whether industrial or commercial, or illegal, such as the Mafia. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u52	Colleagues, I inform you that, pursuant to Rule 99 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal for an early closing of the general discussion has been received, signed by the prescribed number of senators. If there is opposition to this request, one speaker for each group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise: I have not quite understood what the Rule of the Rules of Procedure refers to. Could you say that again? Nor did I understand which senators made this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Article 99 (3). SANTANGELO (M5S). And what senators would make the request? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The prescribed number of senators. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, may I have a copy of the request? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you approach the Presidency, you will be handed over directly. SANTANGELO (M5S). So, Mr President, you cannot publicly say who is trying to block the debate on 416-b at the moment, in this House, trying to put into practice what has already been done to the House, namely the guillotine. I believe that this can adequately highlight the quality of the current political class. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which is so honored and so pretends to be called by names such as 'Mr'. You don't deserve it. You definitely don't deserve it. You do not deserve to be called honorable. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u56	Senator Santangelo, you can explain all the reasons you want to address the Presidency and not disqualify the members of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but I am trying to move right now. My colleagues don't want me. [[Comments.]] I am speaking absolutely calmly, and I demand that my colleagues respect my peace of mind. [[Senator Cardinali tries to draw the Presidency's attention to the fact that the M5S Group's benches are taking back images]] Either I shut up or they're quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u58	Colleagues, there must be mutual respect here: I repeat, mutual. I'm asking one part of the hemicycle and the other part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. We were saying of 416-b, that is to say of the political-mafia exchange vote, something that should commit this House and that of the House in depth, without time limits. This was decided at the Conference of Leaders several times. Now, these cowardly actions - I stress - aimed at blocking the word... PRESIDENT. The quality of Parliament's actions, if they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, cannot be the subject of adjectives such as you have used. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I repeat to you that these actions, even if provided for in this regulation - which you, not the citizens, feed on - are cowards! [[The senator shows the assembly a copy of the Rules of Procedure. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr President, I want the general debate to continue, because... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). We have to vote! SANTANGELO (M5S). ...you must be aware that if this Parliament does not serve to discuss in a democratic way, even with the bright tones that are ours, those of the 5 Star Movement, which correspond exactly to the anger that citizens daily live outside, the tsunami in here will surround you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Look around, do not entrench yourselves into the darkness of this House, where there is not even a window, there is no contact with the outside, and only inside these rooms can you go on! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] But we, I assure you, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask that we move forward in this debate, because it is our right now. We'll tell you nicely. [[Protests from the PD Group]] : we will accompany you day after day, one at a time, considering also your advanced age. [[Lively protests from the PD Group. Live comments from Senator Esposito Stefano.]] MIRABELLI (PD). You're rude! Who are you talking to? CARDINALI (PD). You go home! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You're an expert, aren't you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I call you to order: the advanced age should be a reason for respect, not an accusation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry if in saying 'advanced age' I may have struck the sensitivity of the vast majority of the few Senators who are today calling for the closure of the general debate. We will show you kindly, however, the direction to return to your homes, in a serene and calm way, one at a time. We will show you the direction with calm and kindness, because you will all go home, remember! Everybody home! Everybody home! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Formigoni. Comments from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). We have to vote now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, the opposition must be able to make the opposition and the majority must be able to make the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u62	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in 1987, if I remember correctly, Leonardo Sciascia wrote an article on the "Corriere della Sera" in the wake of the old controversy about anti-mafia professionals, which many of us remember. In that article, Leonardo Sciascia expressed various concepts, one of which, from my personal point of view, fits perfectly with what is happening in this House: there are people talking about anti-mafia, but it does not anti-mafia and believes that even talking about anti-mafia with excited and screaming tones can protect it from any kind of criticism. (Senator Palma speaks to the benches of the M5S Group.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm here, Senator Palma. Talk to me. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I have the impression, Mr President, that what is happening here is very similar to what Sciascia was referring to: anti-mafia careers are being made by speaking, without doing, and we are talking about career development; in this case, we are talking - given the proximity of the electoral competition - probably also about forms of propaganda. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I would like to satisfy with great tranquility... [[Senator Santangelo's lively comments.]] You have to shut up! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Come here, Santangelo! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Don't play with me, okay? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, talk to me, and what you have to say to me! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'd like to satisfy, at least as far as I'm concerned... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Don't worry! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, I invite you again to address the Presidency. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr. President. I would like to satisfy, at least as far as I'm concerned, a curiosity of Senator Santangelo. I am one of the signatories to the request for an early closure of the debate. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. SANTANGELO (M5S). This is the democracy you know! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). And I note that that's the only reason why you call me a coward. So, very quietly, Senator Giarrusso... [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Senator Giarrusso! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, either you get settled or I suspend the sitting and the closing of the debate the advance myself. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Giarrusso, where were you and where were the senators of the 5 Star Movement elected in the province of Catania when the speaker arrested Nitto Santapaola? SANTANGELO (M5S). What do you want? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). (Senator Palma speaks to the benches of the M5S Group.) And where you were, Sicilian senators... Look at the presidency! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). When Who Talks to You [[Protests from the M5S Group]] , when who speaks to you, together with people that you, without having known them, appointed...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u63	Please, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u64	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). ...instructed the Pizza connection? SANTANGELO (M5S). Look where you're standing. PUGLIA (M5S). You were paid by the state! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). And where were you, bell-tower senators of the 5 Star Movement, when those who speak to you arrested Michele Zaza and when the family of those who speak to you was subjected to full escort because an attack had been discovered in the execution phase by Bardellino? NUGNES (M5S). How dare you? Shut up! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). And where were you, Calabrian Senators of the Five Star Movement... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group. Recalls of the President]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, either you intend to intervene in support of the proposal or I will take the floor. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm acting in support. Where were you when the one who spoke to you... GIARRUSSO (M5S). You coward! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). ...when who speaks to you supported the public accusation in the war trial of the Mafia of Reggio Calabria? You're talking anti-mafia. We, in principle, operate against the mob. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Look behind you! VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Squadronists! BLUNDO (M5S). We were in front of the courts with the signs in our hand! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). That is why, Mr President. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] , that, beyond the chatter [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] , as Mr Caliendo rightly pointed out in his speech, to work against the Mafia, we need more binding legislation than the current legislation on combating the political-mafia exchange. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] He who moves to waste time, not to let this law enter into force [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] .. SANTANGELO (M5S). Asking for the discount! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). ...does an objective favor to the mob. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u67	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the reason why the request for the closure of the general debate also includes the signatures of Senators of the Democratic Party... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Congratulations! You have to obey! ZANDA (PD). ...is that we, unlike others, feel the need for this measure to become the law of the State... PUGLIA (M5S). Watered down! ZANDA (PD). ...in time for the election campaign of the next European elections to be implemented and regulated. [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] That is why we want the measure to be voted on today. SANTANGELO (M5S). With the discount! AIROLA (M5S). With the discount! ZANDA (PD). But of course... president. Colleagues, I have more patience than Job. But then he runs away, me too. ZANDA (PD). ...this brief debate which preceded me obliges me to make some clarifications. In the meantime, a personal one. I must tell Senator Santangelo that I am very proud of my advanced age. SANTANGELO (M5S). Go home! ZANDA (PD). I'm very proud of the life I've accomplished. I am very proud to have done it correctly, and I am very proud to be part of a party that is essentially democratic. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Caliendo, Buemi, Susta and Marino Luigi]] And it is for this reason that even this morning I asked and continue to ask the senators of the Democratic Party not to fall into the provocations of the 5 Star Movement and not to answer their insults, I must also say vulgar, because the term "coward" is a term that, said at this distance and in such a general way, is, yes, a coward. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators Buemi and Susta]] Then I want to say something else to Senator Santangelo, who unravels the Rules of the Senate by forgetting, pretending to forget or wanting to do it, that that volume also contains the Constitution of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! ZANDA (PD). I want to say to Senator Santangelo that all laws and regulations, starting with the Constitution and also the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which, as he knows well, is really as much as the Constitution must be observed, cannot be laughed at: he cannot say that we, using Parliament's regulations, are using cowardly practices. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). You do not let me speak under the Rules of Procedure: thank you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, same goes for you. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the political climate has been embarrassed in the last few weeks in this House, and unfortunately I think that we will have to repeat that again and again. MARTON (M5S). That's weird, huh? ZANDA (PD). We all know why this happens: we all know what happens because we are approaching an electoral issue. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] But I want to say, to those who speak in this Chamber screaming, interrupting their colleagues and trying to prevent a quiet and fluffy speech from being made, that if you think that this is... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You're stopping us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, would you relax? ZANDA (PD). ...that if it thinks that this is a good system for obtaining votes and gaining consensus, Italy is a democratic country and knows how to distinguish between those who bring arguments and those who instead only and exclusively seek to break down institutions. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). Are you talking? ZANDA (PD). That is why we want this measure to be approved today. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Ichino.]] MORRA (M5S). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u68	For what, Senator Morra? [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] Senator Nugnes! Mr Morra, you should tell me why you want the floor, as Senator Santangelo has already spoken for your Group. MORRA (M5S). I would like to reply politically. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We'll do the reruns at the end of the session, Senator Morra. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for the early closure of the general debate, tabled pursuant to Rule 99 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u71	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in pointing out that a quarter of an hour ago, the same, too little honourable, were not present and were sitting here listening to the general debate, I am asking for the quorum to be checked at this stage where you are here, because you are witty!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u72	Senator Santangelo, I now verify the presence of the quorum, but every other intemperance will determine the advance for someone from the Easter holidays. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 948-B SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We vote and then I give you the floor, Senator. I put to the vote the proposal to close the general debate in advance, pursuant to Rule 99 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. It's approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u75	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, you said that you would give the reading of the senators requesting the early closure of the general debate. I'd like to invite you kindly to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Absolutely, Senator Marton, since it's a public act. These are Senators Zanda, Susta, Romano, Palma, Sacconi, Fravezzi, Ghedini Rita and Cirinna. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! [[Senator Santangelo points out to the Presidency that he wants to speak.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u76	Senator Santangelo, you don't have the hegemony of the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u77	I too must do my part and declare the general debate closed. [[Applause from Senators Bonaiuti and Buemi.]] Please, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u78	Mr President, forgive me if I hug, but I have no other way to draw your attention, because the devices do not allow it. Having seen, as is often the case during the vote, the open doors of the Chamber and several colleagues passing through the Chamber, regardless of the outcome of the vote, it would be appropriate to make a check to make order democratically. We therefore ask for the counterproof, so that we can verify all the votes exactly: I would not want anyone to be confused.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u79	Because it's Easter, I'll give it to him. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. [[Senator Palma points out that he wants to intervene.]] Colleagues, I am sorry, we are in the process of rehearsing; we are voting on the proposal to close the general debate in advance. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, listen to someone who unfortunately has some extra white hair, on the pumpkin and also on the beard! It's approved. The general debate is closed. At this point, only representatives of the groups who did not attend the general debate are entitled to speak. As there are no requests for intervention, I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur believes that the debate has developed in depth, both in the Commission and here in this House, bringing out the issues. It has nothing to add, therefore, except to wish for the rapid adoption of the measure because of the needs we have highlighted, both in the course of the work in the Commission and in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u81	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u82	Mr President, after having followed the debate with great interest, I would like to clarify a few things, because we believe that this is only a legal and not a political issue. I want to highlight some of the issues that emerged in the debate. In the meantime, we must start from the fact that the current rule, the one contained in Article 416-b, as introduced in 2002, has not been effective and I want to report some statistics on this. Since 1992 the sentences for the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange have been: 2 in 2010, 6 in 2011 and 12 in 2012. These are the results of the application of the current standard. (at 12:17 a.m.) (Following FERRI, State Secretary for Justice). What needs to be made clear today is that with the text we are examining, we provide both the judiciary and the law enforcement forces with a new, effective, serious and important standard in the fight against crime and in contrast to the mafia's infiltration into politics, and this is peaceful. In fact, the choice that you are making and on which the Government has also given a favourable opinion - which has taken itself a bit for granted today and which I want to stress, however - is that we are going to punish today the exchange of promises: and it is not a matter of little legal importance. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso. Recalls of the President]] In fact, the criminality of the conduct is anticipated and withdrawn and, therefore, the scope of the rule is extended. This is significant - and I want to stress this - because at present, with the current rule, only the payment of money by the politician is punished, but the promise of payment is not punished. It is certainly a significant fact, requested by all and must be emphasized. Another point, on which I conclude (I do not want to go too far), is the elimination of the reference to availability. In this regard, I repeat that this is a course which does not remain unpunished, but which is part of the external competition in the associative crime. These are two rules that can compete with each other. Articles 416-a and 416-b can be applied: the case law of the Court of Cassation states this. Among other things, when these two conducts compete, in applying the penalty, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 81 of the Criminal Code, the judge will be based on the most serious conduct in practice and may increase the penalty until three times. The penalty, therefore, in the case of the two crimes, can reach up to thirty-six years of imprisonment. These are aspects that need to be highlighted. The Government, as has emerged and as President Zanda has last stressed, has the interest to approve this rule as soon as possible, because it believes that it is necessary and fundamental that it comes into force before the local and European elections. We really hope, therefore, that we can achieve unanimity, because the signal that must be given today is the correct one of an effective rule, which will allow the judiciary to intervene in a concrete way, respecting the taxability and determination, which are however canons that are imposed on the legislator by the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u85	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to understand. There was a list of speeches in general discussion and I was ahead of many of my colleagues who, on the other hand, preceded me. Suddenly others began to talk, who certainly knew about the guillotine that was coming and rushed. I would like to understand under what rule of our Rules of Procedure - which is like the Constitution, as some say - some in this House have the right to speak and others do not. Can you explain to me what, if there was a list, this has not been respected? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u86	Senator Giarrusso, according to Rule 84 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency has the power to organize the discussion in order to alternate the interventions of the different Groups, even different from the order of presentation. For this reason, other groups were able to intervene after a number of speakers from your Group. This is a faculty of the Presidency to organise the debate. That's why.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u89	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u92	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, we in the 5 Star Movement believe that it is important not to move to the vote on the articles. This, in fact, is a shameful rule, which is based on a lie that is passed on to Italian citizens: there would be a hurry to include in the penal code a norm that is not there. Mr. Undersecretary, the rule is there and the promise is made. Article 416-b in force provides for the sanction of the promise. If it opens the code, it will see that the article contains that term and provides a much heavier penalty than the one you want to insert. So this rule that is being introduced at the moment is not intended to affect the political-mafia exchange vote. The reports we have and which have been kindly provided by the government commissions, which have worked under the Led Government, speak of worsening of the penalties. It is our experience of twenty years of application of these norms that requires a worsening of the penalties, because in these twenty years the phenomenon, instead of remaining limited to the regions of the South, has spread in all the Regions of Italy: by now there is no region immune from the infiltration of the mafia, and the vehicle of the infiltration of the mafia is politics: this is now clear. In the North there is no longer a single operation against the coasts that does not involve municipal councillors, mayors, city councilors, regional councillors, at all levels. In this respect, a rule that, as the only innovation, contains a penalty discount of 42 percent, is a favorable rule: but it is a favorable rule for the mafias! We must say this clearly and forcefully! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a rule for which you will take responsibility and it is not true that by inserting the expression "other utility" we are making progress in the fight against the mafia, first of all because in the text approved by the Senate we were talking about "any other utility" and not about "other utility" and that's it. Just the term "whatever" strikes the essence of the political-mafia exchange and for this reason, knowingly, from whom that exchange practices it has been removed from the text! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because they know very well that the transfer of a police officer is priceless, it is not quantifiable economically, but it is useful! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Yeah, if the mob needs it. They know what they're doing! But out there, Mr. Undersecretary, they're treating it as an urgent rule for the next election. We know that because it is urgent, Mr. Undersecretary. You want to know? 60 million Italians, who listen to us, know this because it is urgent. They know that with a 40% discount on the penalty, with the lack of possibility of arrest - since the penalty, at least, is four years - politicians will be able to do business with the mobsters! They'll do better! That's what you want! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! GIARRUSSO (M5S). There are 60 million Italians who can't take it anymore, and that terrifies you! This is the haste that moves you, ladies and gentlemen, this is the haste that moves this unholy rule! The many who have spoken, unfortunately, are those who are servants of power, who draw close to power, who benefit from this and are appointed by it. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] That's why they're taking the field to defend him! Unfortunately, the judiciary must stay away from power, away from political appointments, otherwise what we have seen these days happens: a shame! I repeat: a disgrace! Good people, who have spent their lives fighting the mob, which is said to be, of a shameful norm, which is beautiful! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this way you have reduced our state to bend the servants of the State to say shameful things! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are the 5 Star Movement and we are here to defend the State: we do not want to break it. This rule destroys the State, which allows, at a low price, to attack the fundamental freedom of citizens, which is expressed in the vote! You want to strike this freedom! Get the mob out of the state! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Get the mob out of the state! GIARRUSSO (M5S). The citizens have only one way to react, in this country, and you have tried to remove it in every way, first with the porcata law and, after the Constitutional Court has cancelled it, with other laws of this type, to get to the greatest infamy: that of allowing the mafias, with intimidation and with dirty money, to buy the vote of the desperate and the citizens! We won't let you! We'll do everything in our power to stop you! You must be ashamed of these facts! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will say it in the streets, in the squares of this country, where the word will still be free! Not in these classrooms, where you take it away, with deception, colleagues! D'ANNA (GAL). President, this is a rally! GIARRUSSO (M5S). I am ashamed of colleagues, whom I respect, who have passed by knowing what was about to happen! They thought they'd take our word off! That's what you thought you were doing! But you are giving us the floor, giving it back to us, Madam President. The Italians are giving it back to us, and the Italians will remember all this soon. We in this country will go and tell in all the streets and squares what we have seen here, the evil pacts that we have seen here: 27 billion euros of the TAV delivered to the mafias and corruption! [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] Shame on you for these things! Shame on you! Europe, the whole world, they look at us, they look at us with disgust! [[Comments from the PD Group]] Because they don't think we can fight corruption and the mob! And today's provision as well as yesterday's is proof of the inability of this political class to effectively oppose the Mafia! We of the 5 Star Movement had succeeded, with the competition of others of good will (a will that lasted little, unfortunately), to develop a valid and effective norm, only one! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And what did magistrates enslaved to power say? [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] It endangers the autonomy and independence of the judiciary! These magistrates offend the robe they wear! They don't have the courage to go to the fight with corruption and the mob! They declare it and leave the judiciary if they do not have the courage to apply strict laws! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] We must say these things loud and clear. If we're here, it's because others fought. And I will not allow anyone to say "where you were" because I spent my adolescence on the streets of my bloody city from the dead! [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Where were you? Where were you? Speak alone! Stop! President, you shut up and get him to tell you everything! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you! I wasn't at the court of politicians to make a career! I was supporting the magistrates who fought and left their lives on the streets of our land! In my town! [[Protests of Senators Caliendo and Palma. Comments of Senator Airola]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Airola, who are you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, stick to the House's respect. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Thank you, President. If I could have some water, as is generally the case when speaking in this House, I would be grateful. Here we come to mumble past anti-mafia acts when we know who protected Santapaola and who delivered it. We know that very well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Someone, a much more authoritative person, has issued a warning with which you do not have the courage to confront yourself: he told you that corruption will not be forgiven you! He told you! He told you to your face! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). But is this intervention on the order of business, Mr President? GIARRUSSO (M5S). But you don't give up! That is why the citizens will send you home and do so shortly! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, because your time is running out. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. We ask that this rule which offends Parliament, which offends the citizens of this country, not even be put to the vote because it is offensive to those who have given their lives to fight the mob and those who had included the current rule in the penal code! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! Quiet or I'll suspend the session. He asked Senator D'Anna to intervene. Colleagues, let the senators of the other groups speak. M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I call you to order: you are the Leader, invite your... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Ah, is Senator Buccarella the Leader? Has the Parent Company changed in the night? I'm sorry I got the wrong name, but you change so often that you can't keep up with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u95	D'ANNA (GAL). I quote that as a good Neapolitan I am used to the scenery, dear Giarrusso: but I did not understand what the part you do. First of all, there is a fundamental limit here: this is the place where some people make laws, and they do so primarily on the basis of a principle of intellectual honesty, according to their own convictions, and (there is a small detail that someone has neglected) according to the democratic principle of the majority of consensus. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's expired. D'ANNA (GAL). If you put on the orbace or the fez, I think we could frame you in a historical phenomenology already passed. By the way, I see that some of you have already worn the black shirt. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the Senators Castaldi and Santangelo]] But for the truth - I would like to speak, Santangelo - you are not the measure of anything. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u96	Senator D'Anna, speak to the whole assembly, and not just to the senators on your right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u97	D'ANNA (GAL). But I would like to speak: if you are not able to hold the Chamber... President. No, Senator D'Anna: the problem is who doesn't respect your speech. If there is no respect, we shall suspend the sitting, so that Members can speak. D'ANNA (GAL). You have to stop me from talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're not stopping her from talking. However, address the whole House. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] D'ANNA (GAL). Very well, then I turn to you, Madam President. If there is still the principle of freedom of opinion in this area, but someone who is quite overwhelmed or overshadowed stands up to judge the morals of others or, worse, believes that he is the depositary of the verb and ethics, it is clear that we are in the presence of a neurological phenomenon rather than a political one, for an order of reasons that I will expose. The comedy of art that is staged here - and we saw another act yesterday - is being listened to by those who are outside this House, and lively that there are no windows, so stupid things can't get out. [[Comments of Senators Martone and Santangelo]] Be quiet, Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u98	Senator Santangelo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u99	D'ANNA (GAL). I'd like to remind those who interrupt me that... Senator D'Anna, continue your speech without answering to anyone who interrupts you. D'ANNA (GAL). ...that like the Five Star Movement I was against the guillotine, but to speak of the facts and not to make vulgar propaganda, insolent my contradictory. That's the discrimination. Anyone who wants to imply that he's collusion with the mob because he's reduced a sentence by two years, I think he has to rely on someone's care. Who is truly lover of freedom antepone... SANTANGELO (M5S). Go study! D'ANNA (GAL). Santangelo, you may have gone to night school, and no more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, this is not a dialogue. You have to do your speech. D'ANNA (GAL). Those who love freedom should be concerned before the rights of the citizen. This is a state in which there is a legal offence that is called an external contest that is so impalpable that it is not provided for by the code, that it is not typed and that often and willingly served to incarcerate people who after years of ordeal, mascariament and media domination have been acquitted. He who has a short vision thinks he is the champion of justice at the expense of the freedom and inalienable rights of the citizen, but he should know that there is a greater danger of the mafia in the state. SANTANGELO (M5S). Everybody out! D'ANNA (GAL). It is the danger that limits the rights, freedom and healing of Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni]] And some Italian citizens, having been deprived in this House of Article 68 of the Constitution (whose sacredness always applies), of their own healings, are often subject to another power that is still irrelevant and irresponsible. So, if we are to defend the state from the mafia, we must defend the state and Italian citizens from powers that replace the state and that often do so in a proactive and irresponsible manner. Senator Palma has disturbed Sciascia; the voice of the Quaquaraquà will not change the real speech. In this nation, as long as citizens are subject to the threats of the mafia and the arbitrariness of a often politicized judiciary, freedom will be a mere formal fact. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Giarrusso, shut up, come on, what's in it for you! Friends of the 5 Star Movement [[Protests from the M5S Group. Recalls of the President]] They don't have a reference value...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u100	Senator Santangelo, be quiet and allow Senator D'Anna to continue the surgery. I would ask Members to listen as they sit down, also because we should sit in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u101	D'ANNA (GAL). Those who in the name of the Italian citizens (we probably represent the Swiss here) have come here, accompanying ignorance to protect themselves from being the depositaries of truth... [[Protests from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u102	Senator D'Anna, you don't use expressions that exasperate. Your time is running out, so please finish your speech. You're talking about what Senator Giarrusso said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u103	D'ANNA (GAL). In conclusion, just as others have opposed squadronism, which is violent... PRESIDENT. Senator D'Anna, we're discussing the proposal not to go through the articles. D'ANNA (GAL). ...we will oppose these new squadronists who are those of the 5 Star Movement! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u104	Senator D'Anna, use appropriate language. (Senators D'Anna and Langella approach the benches of the M5S Group). Senator D'Anna, don't come any closer. I ask Senators Quaestors to intervene. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Senator D'Anna, go back to your place! I'll call you back! Senator Santangelo! M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo! Senator Buccarella, call the Senators of your group! M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u105	I ask the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group to allow the discussion to continue. [[Senator Cioffi's invective against Senator D'Anna. Live comments from the M5S Group. Senator D'Anna greets the Senators of the M5S Group in Rome.]] You can't make gestures that are against the Constitution, and so I call you to order, Senator D'Anna! There are no gestures that are against the values of the Constitution! I'll call you back to order. I beg the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group to be silent! (Many animation). I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 12.53 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u108	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, the PD is voting against the proposal not to go through the articles, because we do not need screaming to fight the mafia: just say no. We have proved it. I've proven by the facts of fighting it, and I still live that fear today. But fear prevails the courage, so I say: now and today always against the mafia. Always, screaming is not enough: this is my message. [[Live, sustained applause from the PD and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u111	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, what is being said in this House, the Senate House, does not remain here, because it is being released by the media, and from today's report of the sitting, steps can be extrapolated which could then be spent in the electoral campaign before the public. And public opinion is not just about those who attend our work. In this regard, since I have seen some problematic expressions, I would like to say to the children who assist in not being particularly scandalized, because this is also democracy, and luckily democracy is also passion, which sometimes goes beyond good education: but better so than lack of democracy. Madam President, with reference to the dialectical polemics about whether it is better for this rule to go as it is, perhaps imperfect, than for a further postponement which would prevent these elections from having effective legislation to combat the mafia, so in this fight, which I think is positive, among those who believe that the mafia is better combated by approving this legislation at once and those who say that more could be done, Mr Serra has made a serious statement. He said that there are senators sitting in this House with the Mafia exchange vote. He made a heavy statement, and it seems to me that the former president of the Group is confirming it. This means to support with impunity in the electoral campaign, throughout Italy, that those who like me will vote against the indication of the 5 Star Movement are here with the Mafia exchange vote, and therefore are potential delinquents. I cannot accept this, and I ask Senator Serra, if she has the civil and political courage, to name and surname the senators collusion with the mob. If Senator Serra is unable to make names and surnames and assume the civil, political and moral responsibility to say who was elected to this Senate with the votes of the Mafia, it will mean that she herself is the Senator who is collusion with the Mafia. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group),]] whose instrumental objective is to divide institutions... [[Recalls of the Presidency.]] Madam President, I'm sorry, but I'm not accusing myself of being involved with the mob.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u112	Senator Giovanardi, you don't get accused, but you can't accuse anyone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u113	GIOVANARDI (NCD). I therefore ask Senator Serra, who said to sit in a Chamber where there are senators elected by the mafia or bought with the votes of the mafia, to make names and surnames, otherwise to apologize to the Senate and to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u114	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask for the quorum to be checked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The vote will then be taken by show of hands, because with the electronic vote it is implicit the verification of the quorum. Do you request verification or voting with the electronic system? In the first case, once the presence of the quorum has been verified, we vote by show of hands. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I didn't understand the request. Senator Petrocelli, are you asking for a quorum check? PETROCELLI (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I invite the Senator Secretary to check if the seats in the Commission stand are active, because we have been informed of their malfunction; in this case, I ask the senators who sit there to go to other stations. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 948-B PRESIDENT. At this point, we vote by show of hands, because immediately after verification of the quorum there is no other vote by electronic procedure. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] It is assumed that the Assembly is always in a quorum to decide; however, if, before a vote by show of hands, twelve senators present in the Chamber so require, the President shall arrange for the quorum to be checked. Since the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles is voted by show of hands, once the quorum has been checked, we vote by show of hands. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business! Sunta (SPI). But what order of business! AIROLA (M5S). Senator Secretary, didn't you see me?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u115	. (Senator Santangelo repeatedly draws the Presidency's attention.) Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am giving you the floor, Senator Santangelo: tell me which Rule of the Rules of Procedure you wish to recall. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, your incompetence with regard to the Rules of Procedure is clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask you for respect for the Presidency: it is being very unfair! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Let me talk to you, Madam President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure... I would ask you to respect the Presidency and to indicate the rule of the Rules of Procedure that you are calling for in order to contest what I said a moment ago. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologize if I have been in my own way. [[Comments from PD and SCpI Groups.]] Since the Rules of Procedure that you should have there are the same ones that I am reading, perhaps, since yours is a different interpretation, we could also compare them. Pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote. The logic of this request is not... (The President consults with the Secretary-General). Madam President, at this point I speak to the Secretary-General. Then he tells me I'm incorrect. If the Secretary-General tells you everything! Listen to me for a second! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Shut up and stay on the subject. Don't say inappropriate things. Stay on the subject he's carrying out. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). But how dare you? SANTANGELO (M5S). But how can I be silent if you gave me the floor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Secretary-General carries out his task of assistance, as the parliamentary officials have always done, and I will take my assessment freely. So, you're gonna call Article 115 back? SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Madam President, I have not finished, do not put the guillotine on the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please finish your speech, Senator Santangelo, but according to the subject. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Rule 115 of our Rules of Procedure, which refers to the electronic vote, is not limited solely to the verification of the quorum, because that is done with reference to the Rule you mentioned earlier. The electronic vote is required in order to have clearly the expression of vote of all the senators, because it comes to record how they vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is therefore totally inappropriate. You continue to look at the Secretary-General because you do not know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u116	I not only know the Rules of Procedure, but I also know the precedents. What are they? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The precedents and parliamentary custom provide that the two voting methods are alternative. SANTANGELO (M5S). Tell me what they are! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You asked for a quorum check... But it's not like that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...and this excludes voting by electronic means. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that. [[Senator Airola points out that he wants to intervene.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Santangelo. (Senator Airola vehemently reiterates his request to intervene.) It's not approved. AIROLA (M5S). President! I ask for the floor on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I'll give the floor after I read what I have to say. In accordance with Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declared that amendments 1,200, 1,201, 1,202, 1,203, 1,204, 1,205, 1.0.1, 1.0.2. 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.0.7, 1.0.8, 1.0.9, 1.0.10, 1.0.11 and 1.0.12, as these proposals are not directly related to the changes introduced by the House of Deputies. As my fellow Members know, the third reading is limited only to parts modified by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u118	About what? D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, on threats I have received live. I'd like to read them because... president. No. He's not allowed to read it. D'ANNA (GAL). I received... president. We express all our solidarity... D'ANNA (GAL). I've been threatened with the surgery I did. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And I would like to express to you all the solidarity of the Presidency and of this House. D'ANNA (GAL). Let me read them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have already announced the threats. D'ANNA (GAL). I want to read them to the House to make it clear that we also need to be careful about what we say here. This is a very serious vulnus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's serious that you've received threats. D'ANNA (GAL). Threats from a man who defines himself as a movement that I don't want to quote: You're a damn bastard. Don't worry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, we express solidarity with you. You don't need to read all the messages you've received. The Presidency and the House express their solidarity with you. AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking you to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About what? AIROLA (M5S). On the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, slow down. D'ANNA (GAL). (Addressing to a Senator of the M5S Group). What are you threatening? Do you realize you're an asshole?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u119	[[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up and protest. Senator D'Anna is heading towards the benches of the M5S Group. Parliamentary assistants stand in the way and accompany Senator D'Anna in his place.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u120	Senator D'Anna, use appropriate language in the House. I'll call you back with a censor. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator D'Anna]] Senator D'Anna, I'm calling you back to order for the first time. D'ANNA (GAL). You must enforce freedom of speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must use a language worthy of the place where you sit. D'ANNA (GAL). (Always addressing a Senator of the M5S Group). Shame on you! Buffoon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna! You're welcome, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u121	Can you hear me? Try, try... I wanted to calm down for a second. [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u122	We appreciate the joke, Senator Airola, but do it seriously, cooperate with the Presidency. We'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u123	AIROLA (M5S). I am also helping the Presidency: but if we wanted to vote on this measure as a matter of urgency because the Mafia is at the door, could we not vote on it in the House as it had been dismissed from the Senate? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u124	We proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u126	No, Senator Martelli, your colleague intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u127	MARTELLI (M5S). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In relation to which Rule of the Rules of Procedure? MARTELLI (M5S). In Article 101, paragraph 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 101 (1), I request that Rule 1 be deleted and put to the vote, and I would like to make a statement in this regard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is not a point of order, because it concerns the order of votes. What do you mean, cut it out? MARTELLI (M5S). It is a proposal for deletion pursuant to Article 101 (1): a senator may request the deletion of one or more articles within the Article. Since they are two articles, I have the right to ask for the deletion of at least one of them. MORONESE (M5S). Don't you know the Rules of Procedure? No, huh?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u130	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, I apologise, but I also avail myself of my status as a Parent Company only to confirm quickly how much we are interested in approving this measure as soon as possible. To those who preceded me and reminded us that we would have done sooner if the text approved by the Senate had been confirmed in the House, I must remind you that we would have done earlier, and perhaps better, if we had approved the text of the Chamber of Deputies here in the Senate. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u132	Senator Buccarella, you are now acting as the Chief Executive Officer: please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u133	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, officially not yet, it is an anticipation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been reported to me. Then settle down. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Beyond my personal role, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider, on the part of the Bureau and the whole of this House, the opportunity for this sitting or the one that will be necessary if it is not in the immediate state, to be presided over by the President of the Senato Grasso, not just for an assessment of the capacity. I'm not referring to a personal matter, President. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am referring to the importance that at such a delicate moment for the Senate's work, in the face of the provocations that we see winding around us, with tones that vary from democratic pietism, on the one hand, to the call of gestures of raised hands, on the other hand, as well as for the object of the bill in question, the presence of President Grasso, also for his historical and institutional figure as a former magistrate, could play the presidential role in its fullness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u134	Senator Buccarella, I support your assessment. Unfortunately, the President of the Senate is absent and is abroad for reasons related to his office, so he cannot preside over the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u137	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask the House to respect the role of the President-in-Office. We need this work to continue smoothly, there is little time left for the closure of the sitting, and I find it very difficult for the measure, as we would have liked and as it would have been right, to be adopted at this morning's sitting. I believe that we should all - and I stress all - regain the ability to respect those who chair this House at the time when the President is absent. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PI groups.]] We cannot really think that the legislature takes this very wrong course. I therefore call for the work to continue until 2 p.m. in an orderly manner and in accordance with the role of the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u138	Thank you, President Zanda. I believe that this is due to the institution, of course, it is not a personal matter. I would like to respond to the point of order that has been made, stressing that the proposal to delete, as provided for in the rule that you, Senator Martelli, referred to, is acceptable when the articles you wish to delete are likely to be distinguished from others because of their independent regulatory relevance. The rule we are talking about is the content of the entire bill and the other articles cannot be of normative relevance without Article 1. I therefore believe that your request cannot be accepted, precisely under the terms of Rule 101, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Martelli nods with his head.]] That is the evaluation of the Presidency, Senator. You may disagree, but in this case the Presidency decides on the application of the Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Martelli points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Martelli, I cannot give you the floor, because there is no debate, but an evaluation by the Presidency on the application of the Rules of Procedure, and you have not properly recalled the rule set out in Rule 101. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to speak in response. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). Autonomy is what we want to take away, not what's left of it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The autonomy of the article must be with respect to the other parts of the bill. MARTELLI (M5S). Exactly. It's autonomous. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is the Presidency's assessment. MARTELLI (M5S). It's autonomous! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the discussion of Article 1, which cannot be of independent relevance to the draft law. MARTELLI (M5S). But how? [[Senator Morra points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Morra, what are you going to intervene on? After your speech, we shall proceed to the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u139	Madam President, I wanted clarification, because I have been used to reasoning and there seems to me to be very little reason in this House. If I may, I would like to take up the words just spoken by Senator Sacconi, to whom I must give a certain degree of consistency, just as I must give the same consistency to Senator Palma, because on 28 January, when we voted here...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u140	Excuse me, Senator, I'd like to know what you're intervening on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u141	MORRA (M5S). Let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you speaking on a point of order? [[Senator Morra sits down, renouncing to intervene, then stands up again.]] MORRA (M5S). Democracy means listening: this is Parliament, and it was born to listen. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u142	Yes, but democracy means respecting the rules. Therefore, since a debate is taking place, I would like to know why you are asking for the floor, because in the Senate Assembly the rules of the debate serve the democratic respect of all, precisely, as well as mutual respect. So tell me the reason for your speech: whether it is an intervention on the order of business or perhaps on a specific point of order. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u143	I'll tell her, and then I'll shut up. If I remember correctly, but Alzheimer's still hasn't fooled me, it was listening just now, which is what should always be in this House. You, for the umpteenth time, have shown the inability to promote listening and mutual respect, so I'm silent and I'm done. If you are President, I will no longer speak. [[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u144	I cannot allow you to continue your speech in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u146	What are you asking for? PETROCELLI (M5S). I would ask you to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PETROCELLI (M5S). I would ask you to be able to examine with extreme caution all the amendments which have been declared inadmissible. I therefore ask you, where possible, to have a 30-minute interruption. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. The evaluation has been done very carefully and the Presidency has already indicated the reasons. At this stage, we cannot suspend our work any further. PETROCELLI (M5S). He didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u147	I also note that, in order to ensure that the work is carried out a little more orderly than it has been so far, the amendments will be put forward, while the votes will take place from the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 15 April. This also allows senators to organise their presence in the Chamber. SANTANGELO (M5S). Lets you leave to go home! It's a shame. You must leave! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it allows senators to attend the meetings of the Commissions in accordance with the schedule of proceedings. Senator Barani has the right to explain his amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u148	Thank you, President. I have a number of amendments to make: one minute and I will explain them all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u149	You have ten minutes, Senator Barani, so you can illustrate them calmly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u150	Barani (GAL). Some of the amendments concern the penalty: although there are those who say that it is too low, I think otherwise, I think it is too high, and I propose to bring it up to three years in the minimum and nine at most, instead of the four to ten-year sentence provided for in this text. I also believe that the term "anyone" is a little too generic: it is better to refer to the "candidate." I believe that those who make these agreements must be identified and that a general reference should not be left. Too generic is also the promise to procure: I think this expression is to be deleted, because it is not binding, I find it very generic. Very in detail, with another amendment, I propose replacing Article 416-b with the following: The candidate who accepts votes in accordance with the procedure referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a in exchange for the delivery or promise of delivery or other comparable utility shall be punished with imprisonment from three to eight years. Finally, as I have already said in my speech in general debate, we do not miss the fact that the penalty must also be applied for all those situations and corporations, ranging from municipal companies to health companies, which can promise to obtain votes, in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1, for certain political parties. Of course, Madam President, I wanted to explain the amendments that I have tabled, but I think I should associate myself - as I said in the general debate - with what Senator Sacconi said earlier. If the proposal of myself and my Group in the Commission had also been heard, we would already have the law passed. In fact, if we had approved the text that had come to us unanimously voted by the House of Deputies, with the vote of all political forces, including the 5 Star Movement, we would already have the law. Here, a majority different from the one supported by the Government wanted to confront and give a demonstration of strength, to listen, perhaps, to the party of certain judges, certain opinion leaders and certain newspapers. I think it is no coincidence that a colleague here today has asked President Grasso for the Presidency. We believe that, in this abnormal majority, the President of the Senate has also had some influence. I conclude with a consideration of what happened today and yesterday. It's a consideration I make out loud and I definitely don't want to accuse anyone. First of all - and I invite others to do so too - I want to go to the President of the Senate to show that people in this House are speaking with knowledge of the facts, to ask for their hair to be examined, because I want it to be shown that when someone speaks here they do so on political issues and not because they are clouded by toxic substances that cause this House to degenerate. [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups and the Senators Buemi, Centinario and Filippin]] I'll do it first, and I hope others will. I am not accusing anyone, but it is a sign that I am giving to restore popular sovereignty to the right balance in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u151	Madam President, with amendment 1.1 we intend to return to the original wording, the one that has been hesitated by the Senate Justice Commission and adopted by a large majority by this House. It seems frankly surprising to us that it is possible, a short time later, that the same people who voted on a text now consider it suddenly inadequate or unvotable. In particular, amendment 1.1 provides that, in paragraph 1, paragraph 416-b • the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: Anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes by means of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a in exchange for the payment or promise of money or any other utility or in exchange for the willingness to satisfy the interests or requirements of the association shall be punished with the same penalty as laid down in the first paragraph of Article 416-a. With this amendment, in particular, we reconnect the vote of exchange with the association with criminals of the mafia type, that is Article 416-a with Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. This was the structure of the crimes that had been originally foreseen also by Judge Falcone and it is the structure that is confirmed by all the investigations that have taken place since Article 416- bis of the penal code in our legal system is in force. Let us remember that the wording of article 416 bis requires, for the qualification of the association not as mere association to criminals but as association to criminals of the mafia type, that there be an activity of influence in the electoral moment. So, in order to configure this crime, it is ontologically necessary to connect with politics. We believe that it is a very serious mistake and a serious setback in the fight against the Mafia to release the Mafia political exchange vote from the link with Article 416-a. This is the case with the text fired by the Chamber of Deputies, which, by disarticulating the norm, disarms the fight against the mafia in this respect, not only seriously and unmotivably lowering the penalty, but above all by disconnecting it from Article 416-a. However, up to now no explanation has been given of the lowering of the penalty, which we intend to report with this amendment to what is currently provided for in the Code. So with this amendment there is not even a worsening, as is foreseen by all the studies on the fight against the mob commissioned by the last governments, but simply a maintenance of the status quo with regard to the penalty. I have to say something very important on this point: if the explanations on the lowering of the penalty are not given, Mr President, it does not mean that there are no explanations, but it means that they are not ostensible, that they cannot be made publicly in a parliamentary Chamber. That's what they don't say! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In this matter, Madam President, there is an unsaid which weighs heavily on everyone and will weigh on this House like a stain if this law passes. The unsaid is the real motivation of why the penalty is lowered. There is no explanation - only one - that is legitimate and scientific from the legal point of view as to why we, at a very serious time in the fight against the mob and organised crime, are taking such a huge step back as this. But even if this explanation is not given, the citizens already know it and understand it. We cannot allow this, and we must say so! The explanation is obvious: the lowering of the penalty, which is even more serious in the part of the minimum edittal, which is reduced from seven to four years (it is not only two years, but it is a 42 percent reduction of the penalty: the numbers count), serves primarily for a reason, because we know that in our system with the sentence to five years and one day we have the perpetual ban from public offices. By lowering the sentence below the limit of five years of imprisonment - at four years - the politician who commits serious crimes with the mafia can return to being a politician after a couple of years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). That's the point! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is the real goal of lowering the penalty: what they will never be able to say in these classrooms and what 60 million Italians have understood and understand very well! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot allow the Berlusconi-Renzi-Alfano government to campaign at the expense of fighting the mob! Our history and our dead won't let us! We'll never let you! [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u152	Madam President, I too, with Amendment 1.2, intend to re-introduce into the text of the draft law what has been deleted by the House of Deputies. I therefore ask that the sentence of imprisonment be maintained from seven to twelve years and that it not be reduced, because otherwise the effectiveness of the norm would fail, knowing what happens in our country when all the general attenuators apply: it always ends that those who carry out a political-mafia exchange never pay anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u155	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to endorse all the amendments tabled by the Five Star Movement Group. I would also like to make a request to the Presidency: I would ask you to prevent the use in this House of the names of dead people in the fight against the mob because they are left alone by the state and the representatives of the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u156	Madam President, I support all the amendments tabled by Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group and I rise to explain some of them. The reduction of the penalty for politicians involved in voting events with the Mafia is completely unjustified and goes against a principle constantly affirmed by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, according to which the penalty must be commensurate with the seriousness of the crime. This principle was affirmed during the examination of the exception of the constitutionality of the law which provided for an inadequate penalty for the crime of fake in the budget. There is no doubt that for the person who carries out legislative or government functions and who comes to terms with the mafia or the camorristi in order to obtain the votes on the occasion of the electoral campaigns that periodically take place in our country it would have been right to foresee a more serious penalty than that established for the common citizen. And for the simple and decisive reason that, unlike the agreement between the mafia and the common citizen, without public authority, the politician who signs an agreement with organized crime to have votes will be conditioned by it in the elaboration of laws that should be inspired exclusively to the pursuit of the common good. Equally serious is the exclusion from the law on electoral voting of the hypothesis of the politician who shows his willingness to satisfy, in exchange for the vote, any requirement of the criminal association, as provided for in amendment 1.1 at the first signature of Senator Giarrusso. It states that: "anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes by means of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a in exchange for the payment or promise of money or any other utility or in exchange for the willingness to satisfy the interests or requirements of the association shall be punished with the same penalty as laid down in the first paragraph of Article 416-a." This amendment goes in the right direction, because being available to meet the interests and needs of the association is made very frequent and cannot be considered criminally irrelevant, equivalent to a veritable promise made in less explicit terms, but equally binding on the politician who makes himself available and who cannot escape the agreements made with the mafia. Senator Giarrusso's amendment punishes very frequent criminal conduct in the territories controlled by organized crime of the mafia type, in which politicians of the national or regional Parliament make themselves available to capimafias or capicamorra promising not money or other utility, but ensuring their commitment as representatives of the people in favour of mafias with laws or other measures that, far from protecting the common good, aim exclusively to benefit the interests of the mafias, with serious consequences also on the economy, as well as on politics. Under these agreements, the politicians who have made themselves available to the mob make sure that the mobs can control large public works contracts, the management of waste disposal services and the management of large hotel and welfare facilities. Therefore, there seems to be no basis for critical remarks about the non-taxability and clarity of the hypothesis, as expressed by Senator Giarrusso, since it is clear that these are very frequent illegal agreements which, without a specific sanction, will escape repression by the penal code. The statements of dozens of judicial collaborators to magistrates such as Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino, Rocco Chinnici and Cesare Terranova [[Applause from the M5S Group]] have confirmed the practice of the commitments made by politicians through the manifest and explicit willingness to satisfy all the interests and needs of the criminal association; this is for the particular needs of the individual criminals as well as for the general interests of the mafia, such as the abolition of the notorious article 41- bis that provides the hard prison for the most dangerous exponents of Cosa nostra. For the repeal or suspension of this measure, unsound agreements have emerged between men of government and Cosa nostra for whom some ministers were brutally destituted to leave room for politicians who would make themselves available to Cosa nostra in withdrawing 41-a. For this reason, we believe that it was a serious mistake not to transpose into the bill under discussion in the Senate the aforementioned amendment, which responds to an aim of legality and repression of behaviour that will instead be allowed by the lack of an explicit provision of law. I thank Professor Imposimato for the surgery I have just read. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u159	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I agree with all the first-signed amendments by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement and reserve the right to explain one after Mr Cappelletti has explained the amendments. 1.3 and 1.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u160	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.3 together with Amendment No 1,206, because the combined text of these amendments contains a large part of the text of the measure in the original form in which it was dismissed by the Senate. Since the House is empty, I would like to have the attention of the representative of the Government, at least of a correspondent who listens to me, also because all this naturally concerns relations between Parliament and the Government. In essence, if the two amendments before us are not adopted at the same time, we note that the Mafia will toast three times, and not two, because three were the picks suffered by the text which was fired by a large majority from this House only a few weeks ago. The three picks have been directed: to reduce the efficiency of the standard with the changes that have taken place (a politician today that makes himself available to the mafia is no longer punishable under Article 416-b); to reduce its scope in terms of deterrent, thanks to the reduction of the minimum edittal of more than 40% compared to the existing penal code; to make the work of the judiciary more difficult in the ascertainment of the crime, because the term "anything" that stood before the words "other utility" has been deleted. These changes have been determined not by the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies, but by the so-called Committee of Nine, without the participation of the 5 Star Movement, which has shunned this play of the downside: a game that rewards once again smart and corrupt and humiliates honest citizens. But what perhaps grieves most is that these changes are based on false statements and lies, as widely illustrated yesterday evening in the Senate Justice Commission. I would just like to point out that it is not true what Mr Sarro di Forza Italia said, for example, that the Senate approved the sentence of Article 416-b to the sentence of the mob association. This Senate had, in fact, simply maintained in the new article 416-b the sanctioning situation already provided for in the penal code. How false it is to argue that the reduction of punishment has been demanded by illustrious lawyers or magistrates in the front line in the fight against the Mafia. I am not in fact - I am sorry that Senator De Cristofaro is not present, but I am also addressing him, in particular - the magistrates to ask for lighter penalties to sanction corrupt mafias and politicians: it is the mafia that asks to reduce the penalties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is politicians who are collusion with the Mafia associations who have every interest in this reduction in penalties, not civil society, nor Italian citizens. It is a fact that politicians who have an interest in pursuing unholy agreements with the organized underworld benefit from this shameful 40% reduction in the penalties already provided for in the penal code. Awake! As long as you look around when this House is more frequent than at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, there is perhaps an even more serious aspect. There is an institution that comes out of this affair of 416-ter with broken bones: this institution is the Senate, the Italian Parliament. Never before, in fact, is it clear the abdication of the legislative power to the executive power, which imposed the downward changes that I recalled, whistling with the division of powers constitutionally guaranteed, imposing an agreement that seriously undermines the deterrent effectiveness of this rule and that calls to mind the negotiation of the State-Mafia. This, in the first place of the serious and rigorous work of its parliamentarians, also those of the PD and the majority who, thanks also to the contribution of the 5 Star Movement, had succeeded in developing an effective regulation to counter the phenomenon of mafia political exchange as had never been seen before. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to mention a few contributions from my colleagues in the PD and the majority I have noted, which have emerged from the very recent debate in the Justice Committee. The reduction of the sentence is the most striking limit of this rule. This is a downward compromise. The text of the Chamber does not satisfy us. These are statements by members of the Democratic Party. I do not agree with the reduction of the sentence. It is the text that came out of the Senate the most suitable " (I quote Senator Casson). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, we must avoid sending a wrong message to Italy and the Italians that exchanging votes with the Mafia is not such a serious crime. Or, worse, we must avoid sending out the message that when they adopt rules that could be used against them the politicians of the usual caste always aim to reduce the penalties rather than to tighten them up, even in the presence of mischief and dangerous crimes for the same democracy, as is the mafia political exchange. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Coherence would like at least, with reference to the shameful intervention of the reduction of the penalties, to find a convergence for the restoration of the edittal penalties already present in our order. It is not difficult: we have already done so, with the rapporteur's favourable opinion, the same one that now proposes the amended text, and with the Government's favourable opinion repeatedly expressed. It's this same government. The vast political majority already exists or, better, there has been both the House and the Senate. It would be enough to have and keep your back straight. Coherence, in fact, is a value, and I am not told that this amendment would delay the adoption of this measure to the Greek calende. The measure has already been approved in the Senate in the Justice Commission and has also been approved in the Justice Commission in the House; therefore, it could be approved very quickly, I would say by the Alfano praise. I'm afraid that won't happen, because it would be like putting a grain of sand in the perfect car driven by Renzi with the most famous offenders in Italy, today senator, as well as fallen knight. In conclusion, we simply believe that decent people and politicians should not be afraid of this legislation in its most rigorous version, because an honest and decent politician will never give willingness to the mob association. I appeal: we do not become accomplices in approving a rule that contains a penalty reduction for politicians collusion with the mafia. Politics would also lose the crumb of credibility that still remains. Join us; join us all in the chorus of: Outside the Mafia from the State! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u163	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to make it clear that everyone in this House needs to be respected in the divergence of views, and the words are not enough to do so. I don't want any. I believe, Madam President, that this debate should not continue, but should be interrupted, in order to give Members of the Five Star Movement Group the opportunity to speak to the House because they are talking to themselves and very few Members at the moment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Many of the reflections of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group do not share them, many of them I share, and I share with 80% the reflection of my colleague, the Catalan MEP Giarrusso. Having said that, I think it would be appropriate - but you see, Madam President - to give the opportunity to us senators to listen and to the Members of the Movement Group 5 Stars to carry out their theses and to explain to us with the utmost tranquility and serenity the amendments they have to propose. Therefore, I would like to suggest to the House, which is sovereign, that we interrupt the work and continue on Tuesday, giving Members of the 5 Star Movement Group the opportunity to say clearly and to the whole House (who wants to listen, who does not want to listen does not) what are the reasons behind it, to debate it and to create a debate [[Applause from the M5S Group]] that perhaps will be tightened, many times it will be violent in words but politely and respecting everyone, in order to get the most, in the interest of the country, and defend the Italian people to the best. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u164	Without prejudice to the fact that it is the responsibility of each Senator to take part in all stages of the debate and that, as you wished, it would be appropriate for everyone to be present, in any case, regardless of any evaluation, since we are close to 13.45 p.m. and it is expected that the sitting will end at 2 p.m., since many speeches at the end of the sitting have been announced, I would have suspended and postponed the debate on the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u167	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I wanted to explain the amendments, but I understand that the continuation of the debate will now be postponed. However, I would like to point out that I support all the amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u168	I take note of that, Senator Nugnes. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u171	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is aware of the importance of the subsequent European Councils in Brussels, in which our Government, authoritatively, participates. Given the importance of the appointment, and by established practice, the Government reports in Parliament both before and after these meetings, to illustrate and share the conclusions reached in Brussels. Well, on 19 March last, the Government, in the person of the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, came to this House to report on the position that Italy would hold at the next European Council on 20 and 21 March. I was able to speak in that debate in this House and generally, without going into the subject of the intercourse, I am satisfied with what happened in this House that day. So far, so good. What has so far been lacking is the sharing of the results of this European summit. After almost a month this intervention has not yet taken place, and this is very serious. The offices tell me that the government will probably report to the relevant Commissions next week. I hope that this will be confirmed, but, in any case, the delay in reporting will be excessive and unacceptable. It is not acceptable, in fact, that what was discussed and decided in this assembly should remain in our memory only the supposed solvins of Barroso and Van Rompuy or, for the most willing in seeking information, the scare information of the official press release. However, I believe that this inattention is not accidental. It was born from the choice of the Head of Government to delay the delegation on European affairs and, even earlier, from the choice of not wanting to maintain a Minister for European Affairs. A useful minister for the next six months of the Italian Presidency of the European Union and, among other things, without portfolio. In conclusion, I regret now having to regret former Minister Moavero Milanesi who, on the other hand, had used us well to a continuous and prompt information and interaction with Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u174	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, the unemployed, the Cassaintegrati, 42% of young people who do not find work in Italy know what relocation is: businesses close factories in Italy and open abroad. But it is unacceptable for them to do so with public support. FIAT has enjoyed state incentives and Cassa Integrazione for billions, but meanwhile it has opened plants in Poland, Serbia and Turkey, and now it has also brought its registered office abroad. For years, the 5 Star Movement has been calling for the companies that relocate to be excluded from these benefits, and in case they return the support received. Well, on 6 April last, the transmission "La Cabbia" of La7 denounced a case that sees the protagonists SIMEST, Cassa depositi e loani and some Italian companies that would have received financing with the result of having facilitated the relocation. Montefibre SpA in 2009 puts 290 employees in the fund and dismisses 10, while SIMEST participates with 2 million euros in the opening of a factory in China. Marcegaglia SpA has 134 employees on the move in 2013 and a contribution of 32 million euros from SIMEST, for plants in Russia, Brazil and China. Ducati Energia, of the family of the minister Federica Guidi, from 2005 to 2009 would have sent 95 employees to fund integration and would have received a SIMEST participation of 6 million euros for investments in Croatia and Italy. SIMEST is a joint stock company controlled by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which manages the postal savings of Italians and should not contribute directly or indirectly to reducing employment and impoverishing families. Who's to monitor? It is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Federica Guidi, who may not be under the necessary conditions of impartiality. The company of his family has various commercial relations with the public administration, and the press has explained his appointment as a favor to the fallen Senator Berlusconi, who now has to the Ministry, with competence on telecommunications, a welcome person. From the Minister the interviewers of "La Cabbia" had elusive explanations. I therefore asked a question (the 4-02019) to confirm these facts and to know how he intends his Dicastery to prevent the money of the Italians from being used to increase unemployment. I want to hope that in his interest he can give a quick answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u175	To be precise, I would like to point out to you that Federica Guidi is Minister for Economic Development, and not Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u178	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, Piaggio, the historic brand of Italian industry, is a company that has represented for many years an excellence of the Italian metal industry in the world. Among the various models, Vespa has become a symbol of Italian design, so famous as to gain a place in the permanent collection of MOMA in New York. If at one time Piaggio was able to give work in Italy to more than 12,000 employees, it currently has about 3,000 employees, of which two third workers and one third employees. Piaggio employees had to accept solidarity contracts involving 1,200 workers made redundant, justified by a drop in sales. The request of the solidarity contract to the Ministry of Labour is made by the company with the signature of the most representative unions on the national territory. At this stage, neither the reasons nor the causes of the decline in production have ever been fully addressed and analysed, much less there is a commitment of the parties to find alternative solutions to the use of a social shock absorber that involves a public contribution. The company justified this redundancy on the basis of a drop in sales, from 2010 to 2013, by about 20%. The aim of the solidarity contract would be to avoid dismissals, which have already taken place over the last three years, first with a mobility procedure of 400 people and then with the failure to renew the contract to about 500 people with a term contract. However, it is evident that last year the first solidarity contract was requested against a closed balance sheet of 42 million euros and a dividend given to shareholders of 33 million euros, while the employee was not paid the production premium of 1,200 euros. It must also be borne in mind that during the lifetime of the solidarity contract the company makes use of the extra extra work outsourced, such as the work necessary for testing some models of scooter and motorbike. Added to this is a constant import of vehicles and engines from South East Asia to bring them into the Italian and European markets. The 5 Star Movement is next to Piaggio employees. For this reason, a question was put to the Minister for Labour (the 4-02036) to find out what actions have been taken in order to verify the actual necessity and appropriateness of the solidarity contracts and whether the assumption that the contributory reductions provided for in the application of the above-mentioned contract have been assessed has become, to all intents and purposes, a form of financing for companies. Once again, we regret the fact that entrepreneurs have been helped to delocalise and mortify the interests of the workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-228.ana.u179	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.55 p.m.
