ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 30 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 31 October 2014 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by Mr. Ms Federica MOGHERINI from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and has appointed Minister of the same Dicastery on behalf of the Committee of the Regions. Dr. Mr Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, Member of Parliament. F.to Matteo Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u9	I communicate that the Parliament is convened in a joint sitting on Thursday 6 November 2014, at 1 p.m., for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u12	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to speak a minute to associate my words, and I imagine those of my Group, with those of the President of the Senate, who, in my opinion, very appropriately just now, wanted to express strong solidarity with the Cucchi family for what has happened over the past few days. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL, PD and M5S Groups]] I think that the words of the President of the Senate were very appropriate and serious, recalling our country, if I may say so, to a general responsibility, especially on the basis of a fundamental thesis: we cannot accept for a moment the idea that the life of an Italian citizen or of any person is in a situation of detention, in a state of arrest or in a condition for which at that moment his life is in the hands of the State is not considered sacred. Therefore, I believe that we in this Parliament should remember very strongly what has happened so that we can reopen the investigation to understand how Stefano Cucchi died and ensure that the perpetrators can be brought to justice. I thank the President of the Senate once again. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u15	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, this issue is of great importance because it involves not only a victim, but also magistrates, prosecutors, a popular jury made up of citizens, consultants and experts. It is therefore a very delicate context. I therefore call for a debate on this case to be included on the agenda so that, apart from propaganda and demagogy, we can calmly look into all the issues relating to it, with the possibility of the Senate having information and insights on what has happened and what will happen in the future. This seems to me to be the right way to deal with this issue. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u16	Senator Giovanardi, this is the responsibility of the Conference of Leaders; this question can therefore be put in that forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u19	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I too join in solidarity with the Cucchi family. However, I would like to point out that too many times these cases have been exploited, especially by a certain group of this Parliament which has always used the oppositions proposed by the police, against the police or against one band or the other. This is a classic case where there has been an injustice that must be punished. No one is angry with the Forces of Order and nobody wants to exploit the pain of a family, but it is clear that there has been a huge imbalance and an unacceptable result that must also be discussed in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u20	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law n. 1651: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 133 of 12 September 2014, introducing urgent measures for the opening of construction sites, the realization of public works, the digitisation of the country, the bureaucratic simplification, the emergency of the hydrogeological failure and for the resumption of productive activities, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 30 October the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Cociancich, if you're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u21	Madam President, I would simply like to reiterate, in the light of the debate and the debate within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the content of the opinion that has been made in that Commission, to which I am therefore referring.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u22	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u25	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, with this measure under consideration, the so-called decree unblocks Italy - another huge omnibus measure - for the umpteenth time we are in this House clearly embarrassed to face what we even call a grotesque and surreal situation. What is brought to the Chamber, in a hurry and with very few days available to examine it, is a decree-law that is clearly and of all constitutionally illegitimate evidence in various respects. In all haste, last week the Commission has had to express the opinion on the presuppositions of constitutionality that - it must be remembered - in that phase concern the original text of the decree-law introduced by the Government, without therefore the modifications made then in the examination to the Chamber, that moreover have worsened, in many points of view, the vices already present in the original decree. We will then enter into the substance of those additional provisions by addressing shortly the questions of the specific constitutionality preliminary that we have presented. I would like to make one thing clear here: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the obvious embarrassment of the rapporteur and colleagues in the Democratic Party, who have climbed over the mirrors, has given the green light by a majority vote - which is very difficult, moreover, because I recall that for one vote the opinion of opposition has not passed - to a measure that openly violates Article 77 of the Constitution and, therefore, is absolutely lacking the requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency which our constitutional dictation requires. Then let's look at the title: you yourself, President, in reading it I think you have had a certain whisper, because it is a completely uneven measure and that ranges in the most disparate sectors, bringing urgent measures for the opening of yards, the realization of public works, the digitization of the country, the bureaucratic simplification, the emergency of the hydrogeological failure, the resumption of the productive activities, the disposal of the waste and so on. It is therefore a measure which is clearly lacking in a fundamental requirement, namely the homogeneity of the rules of the decree-laws, on which even the Constitutional Court has had to intervene several times, censoring the possibility of issuing such measures. Beyond the fact that we are faced with yet another appeal and abuse of the instrument of the decree of urgency and that the content of the measure has embarrassed both the House and the Senate for the division of competences between Commissions, because it was not known whether it should have been assigned to the Commission productive activities, rather than to the Commission environmental, the Commission finances or the Commission transports, since it contains everything and more, it is also evident, as I said before, that many norms lack the same requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency as referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution. I am referring to the existence of the need for the Government to issue a provision of ordinary law and force, thus exercising Parliament's legislative powers on an extraordinary basis, as urgent and indisputable action is needed to resolve some fundamental issues. In fact, in this measure there are rules - in particular Articles 3, 5, 8, 15, 17, 33, 35 and 38 - on which we will then enter, which have deferred effect, that will enter into force over time and certainly do not respond to the need for urgent action. There are also similar rules which have been included in the competitiveness decree which we have already examined and, paradoxically, some of the rules contained in the draft law on the rationalization of public administration, which we are considering in the first Commission. It would therefore be better for the Government to take note of this serious violation of the law and the fact that perhaps - as it would have been better to do - this measure should be split up and divided by homogeneous content in the various sectors, areas in which action is necessary but with criterion and common sense and giving space and time to the parliamentary debate to carry out effective legislative action. I am thinking of the protection of the environment and the protection of the soil from the risk of disasters from the point of view of hydrogeology, issues that deserve special attention, as well as the long-standing issue of waste disposal. On the other hand, the Government, once again, makes use of the decree of urgency in the absence of the requirements, granting very limited time for examination to Parliament, and the Senate in particular, and carrying out a real expropriation of the legislative power of Parliament itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In addition, beyond the heterogeneity of many provisions and the fact that many of them are not of extraordinary necessity and urgency, there are serious constitutional violations also with regard to financial cover. There are specific interventions, for which we look forward to understanding the opinion of the Budget Commission, which are in open conflict with Article 81 of the Constitution because they present financial burdens and commitments for the state budget that are not certain and not quantified to a certain extent, absolutely random and to be used over time. We wonder how the mannaia of Article 81 of the Constitution, which has ravaged many times on important measures for this country, in this case can be implied; I also remember that Article 81 is perhaps the most serious constitutional violation and that an urgent measure, which according to the Government's intentions should relaunch the economy, should respect this article. Another aspect of serious constitutional violation concerns the fact that part of the decree, I refer to the extension of motorway concessions as well as to other interventions in the matter of waste and public transport, violates the division of competences between the State and the Regions, that is to say, real legislative prerogatives of the Regions are usurped. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This will certainly only determine the unconstitutional profiles for which it is already known for certain that appeals will be opened before the Constitutional Court, thus effectively blocking the procedures for carrying out works deemed necessary. Another aspect of serious constitutional violation of these provisions (but then we will come to the substance with our question for a preliminary ruling) is that they do not respect the Community's obligations and therefore conflict with Community legislation on this issue too. Here too, we are waiting to hear the opinion of the competent Commission and we are wondering how we can give the green light and legitimise a measure that will open a dispute, an infringement procedure with the European Union. For all these reasons, we believe that the constitutional requirements, in the decree-law under consideration perhaps more than in others, are not met at all: they were not there. Therefore, the opinion should not have been adopted with a vote in favour, as it has been, and we therefore ask that the text should not be examined. For us the lack is absolute and obvious and we wonder why the Quirinale, President Napolitano, who many times in front of very different episodes and also of inferior scope carried out by previous governments of center-right perhaps intervened rightly, duly, even with very strong letters of call that we have called to this House, in this case it is perhaps a little too silent and reaches a little too much an usurpatory action of this Government in relation to the legislative power of Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I believe that this House can no longer deal so tiredly with the issues before us through this repeated use of the decree of urgency and therefore settle with a debate - I repeat this - repetitive and tired of the questions relating to the constitutionality of the decree-law under consideration. I am saying this because, Madam President, I believe that this is no longer bearable, and it is no longer a question of opposition, of course, but all the senators, as I imagine the Members of this House, should obviously feel involved. In fact, the very words that we use when we talk about the abuse of the urgent decree do not make the idea of how the system is degenerating, so we now have an absolute, systematic violation of Article 70 of our Constitution. In our case, the decree-law under consideration came in from the House on Thursday evening; Friday, in haste and fury, the debate was held on the constitutional conditions in the first Commission; since yesterday, it has arrived in the Joint Commissions and you know that it will now arrive in the Chamber without rapporteurs, because of course the examination of the amendments has not even been completed remotely. So we arrive with times that are absolutely derisory. It is, practically, a kind of rite, which will automatically lead tomorrow morning or this very evening - the government will tell us this - to put trust. This means that every single senator has no possibility of influencing, even slightly, even at a distance, the contents of this decree. This situation is repeated all the time. Not to mention the systematic violation of Article 77 of our Constitution. We would now like to make a very detailed article by article, a very long list of most of these rules, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of many (not by chance in the 1st Commission, the opinion on the constitutional requirements has passed for a single vote), do not have the necessary requirements. Article by article, rule by standard, we are faced with provisions that certainly do not have the character of extraordinary and urgent. We could talk about Article 8, which provides for the amendment, for the umpteenth time, of the legislation on lands and excavation rocks: tell me what the extraordinary and urgent nature would be. Not to mention the fantomatic private service fund for the relaunch of industrial enterprises provided for in Article 15; or Article 24, which regulates the participation of local communities in the protection and enhancement of the territory (it would have been right, of course, to present a bill to resume the best practices that many municipal administrations have taken on for a long time with regard to the recovery and valorization of public spaces). Finally, Article 31 on condhotels. I could go on like this. Extraordinaryness and urgency for most of these rules are not there. Unless we mean the extraordinary and urgent nature of two small articulations. One in particular, article 2, paragraph 4, is indecent: obviously the urgency is in having to do a favor to the financial promoter of the Orte-Mestre, while with that mechanism the State loses almost two billion euros. Or are the extraordinary nature and urgency to be found in Article 5, in the umpteenth extension for motorway concessions? In fact, this is yet another extension. Is this, among other things, innovation and modernity? I have almost the impression, Madam President, that the Government is innovative with the weak, but very conservative with the strong. The decree-law under consideration is a sort of vademecum to see how innovation, modernity and conservation are applied while some castes, the real ones, the strong ones and the powerful ones are widely protected. Not to mention, Madam President, Article 7, divided into two parts. As for water service, for example, how many times (you know) have we discussed? Many senators have been the protagonists here in the battle on the referendum on public water and we have asked for the introduction of general legislation at last. Instead, this text intervenes in a surreptitious and - yes - deeply unconstitutional way, in fact to subvert the results of the referendum itself. The only urgency that we clearly recognize concerns interventions on the hydrogeological failure, but the synthesis of all this is that we always intervene with derogations, with commissioners and with very strong interventions on simplifications, always of the same kind, that ensure that we do nothing but continually derogate from the regulations, in particular by introducing mechanisms of derogation with regard to the fundamental opinions for the protection of public interests, constitutionally protected. I am thinking, for example, of a series of derogations from the EIA, of silence - consensus with regard to all administrations in the field of landscape and environmental protection and so on. In addition, I would like to point out that it is true that the Senate approved the constitutional reform on 8 August last, but at first reading: it does not appear to me that it was finally approved. Instead, in this decree there is a violation of the current Article 117 of the Constitution, which has not yet been changed, absolutely, with regard to the powers of local authorities. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] Let us think of the story of Bagnoli: in fact the municipality is completely expropriated (it is only heard) according to what is then provided by an amendment that has been approved in the House, even if this proposal, immediately after, on a agenda accepted today in the Commission, has not been fully transposed) of its fundamental power, that of urban planning. This happens all over the place. Do we want to talk about Article 35 and the idea (which underlies this decree) of declaring a series of strategic works of national interest to violate, precisely, and suppress the powers of municipalities, communities and regions? Incinerators are declared strategic works of prime national interest and the precise competence of the regions and their programming activity is also violated here. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Barozzino]] Again, in Article 38 we transform our seas: it is a good thing that this decree had to unblock Italy in order to restart the economy! We, by Article 38, initiate (because we declare them of national strategic interest) drilling in all our seas. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] This is the result of restarting Italy, in violation, also in this case, with Article 117 of the Constitution. Therefore the Regions are set aside, and also the procedures of EIA, which are the responsibility, for the research activity, of the Regions themselves, are invoked, with the excuse, precisely, of the national strategic interest. I could continue with a number of other examples, but it is clear and clear that this decree-law does not even remotely possess the constitutional requirements and it is, once again, a slap in the face of contempt for this House and Parliament! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u31	CRIMI (M5S). Colleagues, citizens, on this decree-law we will pour in an infinite number of "ve" we had said, the consequences will be devastating, but unfortunately the citizens will notice too late, as always, when those responsible will have escaped or camouflaged, changing the hair but not the vice, as always. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] In the midst of the junk of this decree, today it is up to me to deal only with the procedural aspects, the presuppositions of constitutionality, that is, the necessity and urgency of the provision, as well as, although not strictly provided for in the Rules, its unevenness: elements that are not an optional for a decree, but the main aspect that characterizes the instrument to date too abused. I would like to begin by reading two paragraphs of the summary report of the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which gave a favourable opinion on the constitutional conditions. Unfortunately it is summary, and therefore does not make much and fails to convey the tone in which these statements were made. The text is public and you can find it available on line: "The Senator Lo Moro (PD) " - the Parent Company of the PD - "in announcing the favorable vote of its Group, includes the remarks raised with reference to the homogeneity of the decree-law. It therefore hopes that the Government will follow, in the future, the repeated demands of the Chambers on the critical aspects of the urgent decree: it is the Holding Company of the first majority party that supports it. The President joins - also you - Senator De Petris' relief about the extremely short time available to the Senate for the conversion of a decree-law which, due to expire on 11 November, was sent to the Senate by the other branch of Parliament only on 30 October. The fact that the President of the Commission and the Leader of the majority party have already expressed these views should cause a little alarm. I still remember the heartfelt appeal, which took place more than a year ago (it was August 6, 2013), with an agenda, always signed by the senators Lo Moro, Finocchiaro and other senators, greeted mockingly by the government of that time, in which he considered himself: As in other similar cases, including previous legislation, the essential core of the measure is important and useful but surrounded by a hypertrophic extension of precepts. That agenda, approved unanimously and accepted by the Government, called for urgent decrees, when admitted by the Constitution, according to the canons established by law, and on the basis of the actual need for any legislative intervention and in proportion to the results pursued by the Government. That is, he invited the government to do the obvious, to respect the Constitutions. But if it is necessary to say so, it is confirmation that successive governments have always in fact violated the Constitution, and all this with your silence, which is nothing but complicity in violating the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The reality is much more serious, and here I denounce a real attack on the Constitution perpetrated in particular by this Government and those who preceded it. It is a Government that has in fact overwhelmed the Constitution and has modified the institutional structure of this country, expelling Parliament from its legislative power, reducing it like an assembly of the members of a company that ratifies the choices of the managing director - to this we are reduced - bringing it from the bicameralism to a monocameralism of fact alternate: once a Chamber, once the other. Moreover, confidence is imposed on everything. And where trust cannot be placed, as is the case with constitutional reforms, Parliament's commissioner comes: what the government requires must be voted on. And do not appeal to pragmatism, to the ability to be efficient, because in reality all this production lacks the implementing decrees; the delegated laws lack a real implementation. Let's go to the merits of the measure. I could speak for at least thirty minutes to tell all the unconstitutional profiles of every single article, but unfortunately I have to dwell only on some. I begin by recalling that the Constitutional Court, in Judgment No 171 of 2007, wrote: The adoption of the primary rules is the responsibility of the bodies or bodies whose power derives directly from the people and which the powers of normative authority to the Government are a derogation from the essential attribution to the Parliament................................................................................................................................... The President of the Republic, your President of the Republic, who applauded you as he wandered at the time of his second settlement, wrote on July 15, 2009: • Differential provisions in content (...) escape the understanding of public opinion and make the relationship between the citizen and the law increasingly difficult (...). It is essential to put an end to such practices. This is what the President himself wrote, but in the end he signs them all, these measures, without blinking an eye. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Constitutional Court also intervened in successive judgments. The measure in question contains rules relating to the construction of road, rail, port and telecommunications infrastructures; rules on hydrogeological failure; rules amending legislation on public works contracts; fiscal and financial rules; rules on bureaucratic and administrative simplification, on building and urban planning, on energy, on tourism, on reclamations, oil extractions, incinerators; rules on employment, local public transport and local finance. The more you have, the more you put. All this inside a decree. It is therefore a measure of exceptional heterogeneity not only with regard to the matter but also with regard to the way in which it is implemented, mixing operational rules, instruments of legislative delegation, allocations of multiannual resources. The confused and disorganic structure of the provision to the examination of this House today once again shows that it is unconstitutional, like almost all the decrees that have arrived in recent months. The definition of "large, urgent and indifferent" attributed to certain works triggers an authorisation practice that does not respect the respective competences of local administrations, limiting them to a mere act of assent on a final draft and violating Article 117 of the Constitution. Article 2 amends the procurement code, intervening on the discipline that regulates the works carried out in project financing, as the provision appears to be of a regulatory nature and the timing of implementation does not seem to justify the use of the instrument of the decree-law. Article 3 allocates almost 4 billion euros, of which only 68 million euros for the financial years 2013 and 2014, 231 million euros for 2015, 159 million euros for 2016 and then 1 billion euros for 2017 and 2 billion euros for 2018. What does urgency have to do with a decree-law of which only 2% of the financial resources are allocated for the current year and the neighbouring ones? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In essence, the instrument of the urgent decree is used simply to relocate resources. When the planned billion will have to be allocated in 2017 this government will no longer be there or will have changed shape, changed face or skin again. Article 4 provides for simplification measures to facilitate the realization of works of the Municipalities, which remained unfinished due to the lack of concert between the administrations concerned and reported by the Municipalities to the Presidency of the Council from 2 to 15 June 2014. The standard therefore refers to a list of alerts received in a given period, following a public announcement, of this type: Write me an email and tell me what the works you want to create are. There is no regulatory parameter and no regulation that provides for the existence of a mere list of works, reported by mail in a defined time frame: this creates a series of prerequisites to initiate appeals of any kind. The list of e-mails received by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers is not attached either. We are at this point: we are thinking about a list of works, which are cited as the works reported by the Municipalities, over a certain period of time, via an email. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 8 contains a sector rule - i.e. the refusal of land and excavation rocks - on which the legislator has intervened several times and which does not have any immediate legal effect, but refers it to a subsequent legislative act. Again, we do not understand the reason for the urgent decree. Article 15 favours the creation of a private financial fund for the support of medium and large enterprises, which appears to be lacking in an effective legal form and seems to be a rule of direction, totally unjustified in the framework of a decree-law. Article 17 intervenes in urban and building matters, making many changes to the single text of the building, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001. The provisions of this article clearly conflict with Article 117 of the Constitution. Article 24, through a not better specified opportunity to the municipalities to facilitate actions of redevelopment and valorization of the territory, intervenes in a direct way on the autonomy of the local authorities, with a voluntary rule, without the charging of the financial burden, configuring two possible scenarios: the first with charges to be borne by the local authorities, with the consequent compression of its self-determination, the second with burdens to be borne by the State, which would in any case not be covered, because not provided for in the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u32	Senator Crimes, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u33	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, as I said before, there are very many other reports of the unconstitutional nature of the measure that I could talk about. The most important thing I want to say is that, for the umpteenth time, we are faced with the imposition, by decree-law, of a series of rules that could have been contained within draft laws, some of which are already under discussion in the competent Commission. It has also happened today, for example, in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production; it has become necessary to extrapolate some of the issues of which the decree-law before the House has been violated from some draft legislation. Parliament, therefore, has been completely deprived of its legislative autonomy. Parliament converts only decrees-laws and, moreover, there were as many as 24 votes of confidence requested by the Government. 24 trusts were requested in 7 months: no one had come this far before. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u36	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen many of the omnibus decrees in Parliament's classrooms and, for intellectual honesty, I must say of all colors, but the so-called unblocking Italy surpasses them all, for the quantity and quality of the profiles of unconstitutionality, violating the presuppositions of extraordinary necessity and urgency provided for by Article 77 of the Constitution and being overwhelmed with legislative mess. It is okay that we are in an emergency phase and that Renzi is allowed everything, but here we are really going down under the minimum ethical of fairness in the relations between government and parliament and legislative production, so much so that the old joke of a parliamentary reporter of the first Republic, for which I apologise, come forward decree, returns extremely topical to a Government that combines supposition and superficiality. The real problem, however, is that these measures are increasingly not only heterogeneous, but also and above all confused, which, instead of simplifying, exponentially increase the cluttering of norms, codes and regulations: the last thing this country needs. We are forced to decipher texts that bring together completely different provisions and that take up issues addressed in immediate previous measures: an uninterrupted rain of norms, often at a very short temporal distance from each other, which are modified, making it impossible not only for us - and it is already serious - but above all for the citizens and those working in the same way. So this government, which claims to have in its DNA the simplification of the rules, then - in reality - does exactly the opposite. This is demonstrated by the many comments made by the Committee for the Legislation of the Chamber, which constitute the nemesis of this decree, born to simplify, which is however censored precisely for its profiles of complication, of regulatory overlaps, for the insufficient coordination with other norms and for the lack of integration with the current disciplines. Here, in the Senate, given the maximum out of time with which the House delivered us yet another decree in expiration, there was no way of even instructing an in-depth discussion on form and merit. So much, there's another trust coming tomorrow, and the people who showed up showed up. I was saying that this is certainly not the first government that makes use of decree-laws and omnibus decrees, and often Parliament has contributed to the degeneration of legislation by magnifying them to an extent and making them become even more omnibus. But the decree unlocks Italy contains an additional negative peculiarity compared to the past. With the Renzi Government, there is now a way of lawmaking that risks transforming decree-laws into regulations, interfering with organic codes, such as the environmental code and that of procurement, and instead of simplifying, precisely, it complicates and weighs down, with the excuse to simplify. Just scroll through the chapters of the decree-law to realize the obvious lack of coordination of the rules within a single emergency measure. In fact, the provisions contained take place in the fields of infrastructure works, motorway concessions and the digital agenda, as well as in the fields of environment and energy. To these they are added provisions of bureaucratic simplification and for the field of the construction and real estate, of attraction of foreign investments and for the made in Italy, for the system of the enterprises and the tourist field and - still - dispositions in topic of social shock absorbers, ports and airports. It is certainly not a coincidence that the decree unblocks Italy has undergone 50 corrections by the General Accounting Office, with a delay of two weeks in its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic compared to the date of approval of the text by the Council of Ministers. This is a further sign of the parliamentary indigestibility, but I would say even democratic, of this decree-law. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly suggested, in such situations, that the different rules be included in separate and separate legislation. That's not all. Some critical issues are even macroscopic: Article 35 has restarted the war of incinerators, while with Articles 37 and 38 the Government transfers from the Regions to the Ministries the competences for mining research and extraction, which are classified activities, not without reason, of national strategic interest. Too bad, however, that the reform of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution wanted by the center-left in 2001, which caused with the concurrent legislation a flood of appeals to the Constitutional Court, is still in force; moreover, the center-right had tried to heal it with the devolution, but, the same center-left wanted to keep it obtusely alive by referendary way. Well, according to Article 117 of the Constitution, these competences are the responsibility of the Regions, and therefore a flood of appeals for conflict of attribution before the Council is already ready, with the consequence that rules that should serve to unblock yards, works and contracts will end up covered up and the Government will thus get the effect opposite to the desired one. And again: Italy risks a European infringement procedure for the rule on motorway concessions contained in the decree unblocks Italy. Brussels has already opened the pre-procurement procedure. Derogations and extensions of concessions are in serious danger of violating Community market rules. On this specific issue, the Antitrust also raised competition issues during a hearing in Parliament. I would remind this distracted Government that, in the presence of a national law that conflicts with a Community rule, the ordinary court must disapply national law in the specific case and apply Union law, without asking questions of unconstitutionality or waiting for the national legislator to resolve the conflict of jurisprudence. Community acts prevail over those of the Member States, both those which are prior to the approval of the Community standard and those which were subsequently adopted, and are therefore an ontological priority, not a temporal one. Finally - but I could continue for a long time on the inconsistencies of this decree - Article 8, which concerns the modification of the legislation on lands and rocks from excavation, provides a real delegation to the Government, with principles and guiding criteria, in violation of the prohibition to insert delegations within the decrees-laws. It seems to me that I have listed a thousand good reasons to argue that this is an unacceptable decree in any democratic Parliament for the ways, times and rifts consumed against not only the Constitution and the correct physiology in the relations between powers of the state, but common sense. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 133. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u38	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1651, already approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the 8th Permanent Commission, Senator Matteoli, reports on the work of the Joint Commissions 8a and 13a.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us, which expires on 11 November, reaches the Senate after a lengthy examination by the House of Deputies, during which it has been amended and supplemented. The text transmitted corresponds to the new text approved by the Chamber's Environment Commission. The time available to Commissions 8a and 13a has unfortunately been limited, so we have not been able to complete the examination of the amendments and, consequently, the adoption or not of the measure. The measure is divided into ten chapters and contains measures affecting various sectors, e.g. infrastructure investments, environmental measures, such as re-launching construction, rules on ports and airports and measures in the energy sector. With regard to the 8th Commission's article of interest, bearing in mind that the colleague, President of the 13th Commission, will report for the part of his competence, with reference to infrastructure, first of all Article 1, which provides for the appointment of the managing director of the Ferrovie dello Stato SpA to commissioner for the realization of the works relating to the railway line Naples-Bari. The article regulates the duties and powers of the Commissioner, whose term of office is two years, and declares the public utility and urgency of the interventions for the realization of the works, the financing of which is borne by the resources provided for in the contract of program concluded between RFI and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The same provisions apply also to the realization of the railway axis high speed / high capacity Palermo-Catania-Messina. In reference to the program contract 2012-2016, for the part investments, concluded on 8 August last between Rete Ferroviaria Italiana SpA and Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports, paragraph 10 of Article 1 previews that it is approved with ministerial decree within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law under examination, after opinion of the parliamentary commission competent for matter. In the same paragraph the exclusion from the Internal Stability Pact for the years 2014-2015 was introduced of the expenses for the execution of works aimed at the elimination of the passages to dangerous levels for public safety. Paragraph 10-a provides for the preparation, by the Ministry of Infrastructure, of a plan of modernization of the railway infrastructure. Paragraphs 11 to 11-c intervene in the airport sector providing for the approval by ministerial decree, to be adopted within sixty days of the entry into force of the law, of the program contracts signed by ENAC with the operators of the airports of national interest. Article 2 lays down provisions for the construction of infrastructure... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u40	I'm sorry, Senator. It's really tiring. I ask everyone who's standing and talking out loud to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u41	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Article 2 lays down provisions for the construction of strategic concession infrastructures, which aim, inter alia, at indicating the cases and conditions under which the contract notice, in the case of the project's articulation for functional deletions or in the more complex cases of successive joint phases, may provide for the full fallout of the concession. Article 3, in order to allow in the current year the continuity of the yards in progress and the finalisation of the contractual acts aimed at the start of the intense activities, allocates 3,851 million euros for the period 2014-2020 to the fund established in the state of forecast of the Ministry of the infrastructures. Article 5 intervenes on motorway concessions and has been modified during the examination in the Chamber with respect to the original text of the decree-law. It is expected that the changes in the concessionary report by the concessionaire of the national motorway routes, to be submitted by 31 December 2014 to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, concern existing concessionary reports, as well as are explicitly aimed at procedures for updating or revising the agreements. Article 5- bis gives the Ministry of Infrastructure the possibility to take over from the Emilia-Romagna Region in the functions of granting the Cispadana motorway. Article 6 provides first of all for the granting of an IRES and IRAP tax credit, up to a maximum of 50% of the investment, for the implementation of infrastructure interventions and the creation of electronic communications networks and ultra-wide band. Simplifications are also introduced in the excavation and laying of cables as well as in the construction of mobile and communication networks. Article 10 aims to increase the operation of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, through the extension of the scope of financial operations, while Article 11 extends the discipline that facilitates the construction of new infrastructures through public and private partnership contracts. Article 13 amends the so-called project bond framework contained in Article 157 of the Public Contract Code. The article 16- bis, which introduces a new discipline for access on roads entrusted to the management of Anas SpA, and article 16-b, aimed at defining the modalities and the terms for carrying out the fire requirements related to the metropolitans in operation. Measures specifically intended for ports and airports are contained in Articles 28 and 29. In particular, Article 28 deals with the contribution scheme for flight allowances, the exemption from the right of boarding for flight crews and the first aid service. During the examination in the Chamber it was established that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport promotes new bilateral air transport agreements and the modification of existing ones. The article 29 previews that with a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to subject to the opinion of the competent parliamentary Commissions, is adopted a national strategic plan of the portualità and the logistics that contemplates also the rationalization, the reorganization and the amalgamation of the existing harbour authorities, to carry out however according to how much already previewed from law n. 84 of 1994. With regard to measures for undertakings, Article 15 promotes the establishment of a Fund for the capitalization of undertakings, whereas Article 15 bis provides for measures to facilitate access to finance under Law No 49 of 1985 by cooperatives of workers from confiscated companies. Article 30 provides for the adoption of the plan for the extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy and the attraction of investments in Italy. The measure also contains specific measures for territorial authorities. Article 4 contains, inter alia, certain measures aimed at promoting the realization of the works reported by the Municipalities to the Presidency of the Council from 2 to 15 June 2014. I would like to thank the members of the Commissions 8a and 13a because in these two days, although they knew that the Government would most likely - but it is an understatement - put the question of trust, they have worked hard to try to finish the examination of the measure. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Cantini and Senator Di Biagio, for their work in the Commission and for their expertise. If we had had a few more hours, we would most likely have made it to the House with the rapporteurs and with the measure finally adopted or rejected in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Marinello, do you want to integrate on behalf of the 13th Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to add to what Mr Matteoli has just said in this House. The sessions were intense, despite the tight deadlines and the awareness that it would hardly be possible to change the text. There were as many as 21 speeches in general discussion and 912 amendments and 165 agendas were tabled, of which 6 were adopted and 72 were accepted by the Government. Among other things, there was an intense debate and debate on these agendas. Overall, despite the limited timing, we had almost 14 hours of session. This shows that the Senate is made up of serious people, regardless of the role of majority and opposition, people who have the will and interest to discuss the substance of the issues. As the previous speaker rightly said, the measure contains ten heads. As far as environmental matters are concerned, we specifically point out a number of issues. Article 7, which introduces a series of amendments to the so-called environmental code in relation to water management. Article 8, which authorizes the Government to adopt provisions for the reordering and simplification of the rules on land and excavation rock management. With regard to the measures in the field of construction and public real estate, we would point out Article 17 which amends in several respects the Single text on construction with simplification rules concerning, among other things, works within the communication of the beginning of works. Article 18 provides that in contracts for the rental of buildings for residential use, even if authorised for hotel activities, the parties may freely determine the terms and conditions of the contract by way of derogation from the current rules. Article 19 provides for the exemption of registration and stamp taxes in the case of registration of acts which provide only for the reduction of the rent of an existing lease. Article 21 provides for a deduction of income of 20% of the costs incurred in favour of persons who, outside a commercial activity, buy from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017 a residential accommodation. Article 23 governs contracts for the use of immovable property on the basis of the subsequent disposal of immovable property. Article 33 provides for the adoption of urban environmental redevelopment measures in territorial areas of considerable national interest, as well as specific provisions for the Bagnoli-Coroglio area. Article 33- bis aims to exclude from the constraints of the Stability Pact for the year 2015 the expenses incurred for asbestos cleaning operations to be carried out in the territories included in the site of national interest of Casale Monferrato. Article 34 deals with the clean-up and safety of contaminated sites. Article 35 deals with a number of provisions aimed at an appropriate and integrated waste management system at national level. With regard to energy measures, Article 22 should be mentioned, which aims to facilitate access by households, businesses and public entities to contributions for the production of heat from renewable sources and for the increase in energy efficiency, the so-called thermal account. Article 36 excludes from the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact the expenditure incurred by the Regions for the implementation of measures to develop employment, economic activities and industrial development. Article 36-a provides for interventions in favour of the territories with oil settlements; it is therefore true compensatory measures in respect of territories which bear a considerable environmental effort. Article 37 introduces amendments to the existing rules on infrastructure and natural gas. Article 38 contains measures for the exploitation of national energy resources. I must add that under different conditions we would probably have acted and we would have intervened with further changes compared to the positive ones already made by the House of Deputies, but the conditions given did not allow it. However, important agendas have been reiterated, some of which have been accepted by the Government, others voted, and then approved in the Commission, which set exactly the scope and limits in the full direction of Resolution XXIV, No 22, which the 13th The Commission has drawn up and concluded in its deal on environmental issues related to prospecting, and in some way it has also been taken up by an agenda voted by this House. Article 29 amends some of the criteria for the use of incentives for the purchase of low-emission vehicles as a whole. Article 39-a amends the definition of efficient district heating and cooling. There are further rules in favour of measures concerning territories affected by seismic events, namely Abruzzo, Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Veneto, Calabria and Basilicata. Article 9 is intended to qualify work up to the Community threshold as extremely urgent measures. The following articles have still been examined. Article 12, which deals with the use of the resources of the European Union's Structural Funds. Article 24, which provides that municipalities may define, in relation to a specific area of their territory, criteria and conditions for the realization by individual and associated citizens of the urban or suburban territory. Article 25, which amends the rules of the Conference of Services and intervenes in matters of landscape authorizations. Article 40, which lays down rules on social shock absorbers and recruitment incentives through an increase in the Social Fund for Employment and Training for the purpose of refinancing social shock absorbers by way of derogation. Finally, Article 43-a stipulates that the provisions of the decree in question are applicable in the Regions under special statute and in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. If the conditions had been different and the House of Deputies had been more respectful of the necessary legislative conciliation between the two branches of Parliament, by sending the text to the Senate in time for an examination that would allow any changes, the measure could have been improved. It would be implemented and enriched and probably some misdirections and errors could be corrected. The conditions given did not allow us to do so, and in the Commission we were convinced to reject all the proposed amendments for the simple reason that we realized that the timing did not allow any other solution than this. That is why we did not have the opportunity to give a regular mandate to the rapporteurs, to Mr Di Biagio and Mr Cantini, whom we thank for their attention and work, and also for the quality of their speeches. With these last considerations I believe that I have exhausted all the articles of environmental interest, reaffirming that overall the evaluation of the Commissions was the one I set out. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Matteoli's report, draft law No 1651, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as announced earlier, in the debate on the resolution of the 1st Commission on constitutionality, and for the same reasons, we considered that we should present a preliminary question of constitutionality, precisely in order to denounce the serious violations and deficiencies brought about by the measure in terms of compliance with the constitutional dictation. It is in fact the umpteenth decree-law, which comes to us for the umpteenth time with very tight times of examination, for the umpteenth time arrived at the Senate already with the prospect, from there to a few days, of a confidence, forcing the competent Commissions to have to run in order at least to try to understand what is contained in the provision. Moreover, in examining the text in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, just yesterday, we witnessed the embarrassment of our colleagues in the Democratic Party and the majority in defending a measure that from various points of view does not respect the constitutional principles, which is therefore seriously flawed and therefore should not be approved. The purpose of the question referred by us, of which I am going to point out the main points, is precisely that which does not go further in the examination of the measure. First of all, we want to strongly denounce, as we have already pointed out, the lack of the requirement of homogeneity, which has seen the Constitutional Court pronounce several times, with several judgments up to that of 2012, where it refers to the importance that the decree in all its fields and sectors is a single and homogeneous body. There is also a lack in many rules of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency which should explain and legitimize the adoption of an instrument of urgent decree. Several times the Constitutional Court has called for the restoration of a correct constitutional path, and this way of proceeding of the Government, for the umpteenth time - we want to emphasize it loudly - only harms the parliamentary prerogatives, does nothing but usurp Parliament's legislative function, and therefore its role, producing emptying and mortification. The measure is therefore in contrast not only - as we have seen - with the profiles of extraordinary necessity and urgency referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, but also with Article 70 of the Constitution, which we want to recall here, which entrusts only to the Chambers the exercise of the legislative function and identifies very precise and rigorous stakes of intervention by the executive power. With regard to the respect of other rules that refer to various constitutional principles - as we have had to say before - one of the main violations and shortcomings that the decree-law bears in itself is the failure to comply with Article 81 of the Constitution: it is a measure uncovered, and this must be said; it does not have adequate financial coverage as regards the expected economic and financial forecasts, as regards the financial burdens borne by the State budget, because it refers to absolutely random, very imaginative coverages, which refer to quantifications gradually ascertainable over time. The heterogeneity is in various parts of the measure that - I would like to remind you - ranges from bureaucratic simplification, to the emergency for the hydrogeological failure, to the productive activities, to the digitization of the public administration, to norms in the matter of local public transport, to the management of the waste, etc. We do not understand, therefore, what is the way to proceed, the intention, of a Government that calls this measure unlocks Italy, giving almost the sense of putting in place measures that go in favour of citizens and businesses simplifying their lives, when it is difficult to understand what is inside it, what is written there and even the title is clarifying in this regard. Other than simplifying the lives of citizens and businesses! In addition, a body of miscoordinated rules is put together with previous measures, such as the newly dismissed competitiveness decree, and which is not coordinated with measures being examined in the Commission, such as the draft law in force in the first Commission on the rationalisation of public administration. The measure, in addition to being seriously flawed and to give rise to several appeals before the Constitutional Court, will therefore create such a regulatory mess - we already know - as to cause damage as regards the legal order in our country and will complicate the lives of operators, citizens and companies who will try to understand what is the correct and exact legislation to which they must refer. In addition to the violation of Article 81 for failure to cover many rules, the measure also runs counter to Community legislation. It has been mentioned before - and I would like to reiterate this - for example, the issue of extending motorway concessions, which takes place without following the indications given by Community legislation, by the European Commission, and here again, an infringement procedure will certainly be opened. We have said that it would have been preferable for the Government to proceed by removing certain parts of this provision, giving certain and more appropriate times to examine issues relating to public works, environmental protection, school construction and hydrogeological risk; However, these issues would have had a better place in specific and sectoral measures. It therefore escapes our understanding and most public opinion this way of proceeding, which only complicates the relationship between institutions, politics and citizens. A number of decisions have been taken by the Court. We refer to many provisions contained in the provision and which openly violate in several parts, for example, the division of competences between the State and the Regions, as laid down in Article 117 of the Constitution. In fact, colleagues, they are used very easily by the central state to replace the regions, making - for example - extensive use of extraordinary commissioners for hydrogeological risk, for the adaptation of sewage systems and purification, in essence for the realization of public works. In this case, the violation of Article 117 is clear, it is quite clear: it creates an invasion, a usurpation of regional competences. This, perhaps, is the clear intent of the Government: a centralizing, state-owned intent, which aims to direct everything through the famous directing booths that Renzi imagines to manage, in reality, in an authoritarian and centralised way, the public resources, those few that have remained, which - by chance - are found only in certain virtuous regions, which have the accounts in order. You probably want to take, forcefully withdraw such resources, to allocate them to repay the debts of all those who, on the other hand, have not carefully spent public money. There are articles that refer to public works, but that are certainly not facilitated in their realization. It is clear, in fact, colleagues, that the violation of the division of competences between the State and the Regions will create paralysis in the procedures of realization of works that are expected and deemed necessary, and will open clear disputes. We're tired of seeing this way of operating. And also on the public works front - but this will be explained well by the competent colleagues of the Commissions who have examined the various environmental, waste and hydrogeological provisions on the subject - the resources allocated are ludicrous: we are talking about an appropriation of only 39 million euros from 2014, with a financing planned until 2020, which will have to be gradually filled up with successive interventions, absolutely random. So what are we talking about? That's another joke. In the face of this way of proceeding, we oppose it and will always oppose it. We denounce, therefore, the merit and method of the Renzi government's way of proceeding. We ask Members to support our question for a preliminary ruling so that we do not proceed further in the examination of the measure and express, on its merits, our absolute opposition. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u45	He asked Senator Cioffi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u46	Madam President, I am speaking in this pantomime of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] We are, in fact, talking about fiction. It is truly a pantomime to think that we, in the Senate, must face a provision that has been held for fifty days in the House. It was enough simply to abolish the Senate and not reform it, as the Premier wants, that it does not abolish it and we pretend. But we must talk - since we have dealt with this story in the Commission for a long time - about what are the unconstitutionality points of the decree-law under consideration, which - as we all know - is called the unblocking of Italy, but which we - as we have said so many times - call the breaking up of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure comes to us armored, because the House was also asked the question of trust. Many environmentalists in the House who voted in favour have flagned a beautiful flag, claiming that they safeguard the environment, but have voted for trust. It will then be, perhaps, the case to go and see how you vote who says he is a champion of the environment. But since we are not consistent and consistency is no longer fashionable, perhaps it was also necessary to bring back the coherence, as well as the famous honesty, of which we always talk. This is about the House. With regard to the articles, in this provision there are many issues, and therefore - as has already been said - it is absolutely uneven, in contrast to the third paragraph of Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988, which the Government, when discussing constitutional reform, wanted to make constitutional. The Government, therefore, is also contradictory with itself, as well as with this House and with the majority supporting it. We can say that this is now a well-established practice, since it always happens. Of course, the government doesn't give a damn about what's going on in the Senate. On the other hand, it puts trust in us and our role, therefore, it is once again out of hand. Once again, we reiterate that they believe that we do not serve, but we oppose this vision, because - as has already been said - there are articles in the Constitution that identify the moment and the specifics for which the Government can legislate, while by now it plays the ace of everything and thinks that it can do everything by itself. Of course we're here waiting. There are also bookmakers who bet on how many minutes we can discuss before the Boschi arrives to make the ace catcher and to pronounce his usual phrase of ritual. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's see what bookmakers give us. However, this measure - as we have said - is absolutely incompatible with urgency, partly because we continually overlap standards. It is a measure that seeks to satisfy a number of specific interests (obviously, the general interest is a waste that has not been brought to this Italian Republic for so long), as we continue to derogate from rules and no longer protect the landscape or the environment which - if I remember correctly - is mentioned in Article 9 of our Constitution. Let's go give some examples. In Article 1 of the decree-law we talk about the railway Naples-Bari, where we put a nice commissioner, because so we declared the normal procedures failed. Besides, what do we do? We give the Presidency of the Council the opportunity to give an opinion when the administrations expressing opinions on environmental protection, landscape protection and health protection do not. Once again, the government plays the ace and we can only oppose this vision. On the other hand, this modality represents a way of using the Constitution "alternate plates," according to what we need. Shall we talk about the motorway concessions? Have we said that yet? What are we doing? Shall we extend the concessions? Do we give a gift to someone, to someone who used to be in charge of jerseys (in Rome they are called jerseys) and who currently has highways in his hand? Who knows? Maybe the Benetton family, to give an example, and also to name and surname? And then, in Article 9, we speak of extreme urgency. With emergency procedures we continually make derogations: we rely on contracts up to the Community threshold (EUR 5 million) without tendering; we go with the negotiated procedure, without ban; we entrust the work without guarantee. We can secure the contract before the deadline for communications and final award. We can cut down half the time. We do a lot of things that are absolutely contrary to what the general interest is. We have also seen this in the article in which we talk about integrated water service, in which we should remember what our role is, which is first of all to protect the interests of citizens, and not the specific interest of some private group. Perhaps the public's interest is sometimes not in tune with the interest of economic groups that have to make money, but we must serve the citizens and we must not make the money. Perhaps the return to the management of the services through the unions of the Municipalities would be a good thing. When do we start to be interested again in the interests of citizens and the general interest? Then we have another interesting passage: we were talking about the fact that there are no covers. Article 34 of the decree does not have the boiling of the General Accounting of the State and, therefore, means that it is not covered. This is precisely paragraph 7. We wait, therefore, for the Government to make a decree-law to repeal a paragraph of Article 34 of this decree-law. It is beautiful: we do the decree-laws to repeal the paragraphs of the articles of the decree-laws. That sounds really crazy to me. If that's the way the government is going, maybe it's really time for you to go home. And let's hope that all of you take back a little bit of human dignity in telling the government that maybe it's time for him to play his part, that he's doing our will. Therefore, we are voting in favour of the prejudices put forward by the various groups to tell this Government that perhaps it is time for him to return to the Commission and stop law-making. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u47	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves once again here on a measure of grave unconstitutionality. We have said this in the Commission about the constitutional presuppositions and we have said it with reference to the decree-law, just as it has entered the Chamber of Deputies, where it has been substantially modified: the two-thirds of the measure that is now before our attention are the amendments of the Chamber of Deputies and we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a decree-law. That alone would be enough to urge all of us to have a movement of constitutional outrage which, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we tend to forget too often. We have said this in the Commission: this is not a decree-law, but an anthology of constitutional pathologies; it is a treasure trove of ways which, in themselves, represent a violation - as my previous colleagues reminded me - not only and not so much of Article 77. How many times have we been here speaking (at least twenty-four times, that is, all the times that there have been requests of confidence on measures in the smell of unconstitutionality) of omnibus measures, in themselves and by their very nature uneven, because they deal with different subjects, not at all unifiable through that famous red thread on which the government climbs to explain them? These are measures which, because they are uneven, are by their very nature - not we, colleagues, but the Constitutional Court - not extraordinary, unnecessary, not urgent. How many times have we found ourselves, colleagues, to evoke and to invoke - by now it becomes almost a fidelistic approach - the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, citing the judgment n. 22 of 2012 and the judgment n. 120 of 2013? The latter basically tells us: gentlemen, be careful, because you are not only violating Article 77 of the Constitution, which provides that the Government can legislate only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. Legislative power is not at the head of the government, but it is at the head of Parliament, and excuse the obviousness of what I am saying. We all know that we are legislators, but too often, ladies and gentlemen, when we vote in favour of unconstitutional decrees, we forget it or pretend to forget it. As I said, the Constitutional Court reminds us that the violation is not only that of Article 77, of the constitutionality of the decree-law, but also that of Article 70, when Parliament resigns its role as legislator; when Parliament allows the Government to snatch its constitutional powers and perverts the scheme of separation of powers: legislator-Parliament and executive-Government. These skills cannot be mixed. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are making a choice that will bring on all of us a constitutional responsibility for a measure - I repeat - which is very uneven. The previous speakers have copiously quoted unconstitutional articles of this measure, which give us the measure of how there is now a codification and classification of models of unconstitutionality. The first, the so-called sequel, which is typical of this decree-law, is a provision that has been found since time immemorial: there are even rules that date back to the Italian saving of the Monti Government, on which I do not want to add anything as far as extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. There are rules that date back to the growth of Italy and the simplification of Italy of the Monti Government or to measures on the competitiveness of the Letta Government or to the recently approved competitiveness decree, this summer, by the Parliament. There are rules not telenovela but buffer, such as Article 25 of the decree that we are examining on bureaucratic and administrative simplification, which is exactly the same, verbatim, word by word, comma by comma, point by point, in Article 5 of the draft law delegation on public administration, currently under examination by the 1st Commission of this House. Colleagues, it is impossible to treat constitutional conditions of this kind in a light manner. There are now ways that have become almost an implicit way of modifying the Constitution. Perhaps it is thought that the announcements, the announcements, the announcement of constitutional reforms, make them real. But, ladies and gentlemen, we still have an unchanged constitutional text. We haven't changed the legal process yet. We have not yet changed the way in which the government's will is transferred to the legislative provisions. There are rules within this decree and also within the decrees that preceded it, such as that on public administration or competitiveness, with deferred effectiveness, as some of my colleagues have also mentioned. These are rules which, in total disregard of the requirement of necessity and urgency, are not valid and effective from the time of the entry into force of the decree, but at certain date, from the time of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law itself. In this way they undermine the constitutional presupposition of the decree-law, which is here and now, immediately valid and effective as necessary and urgent. Within the decree under consideration - there is really an endless spending of constitutional pathologies - there are norms that refer to acts of secondary standardization, and therefore they are a sort of empty boxes that must be filled - perhaps and possibly - by acts of secondary standardization of the Government, which are successive and to result and realization absolutely uncertain. Colleagues, we know that this Government has more than 600 acts of secondary standardisation still to be implemented, to which we are adding others. I do not want to tease you, ladies and gentlemen, but I remember what we are doing and the responsibility we are taking on a devastating and disturbing constitutional precedent, not to use even heavier terms. As my colleague, Senator Mazzoni, recalled, we have altered an essential constitutional scheme, namely that relating to Article 81 of the Constitution, in the area of cover. I would remind all of us and all of you that this is an uncovered decree-law and once again we do not say so, but the Budget Committee, to which it has been repeatedly referred, during the examination to the Chamber of Deputies, and that it has been amended, over-ruled and counter-ruled. There are 50 corrections of the General Accounting of the State, which has systematically returned it to the ministries of competence, in the end billing it, but it is not well known how and why. This is one of the painful mysteries of the measure under consideration and of others, which have been boiled or signed - once again I do not want to repeat myself, but I must do so - even from those tall and very high spheres, even from those high, very high hills, which should guard the constitutionality of the measures and which cannot ignore pathologies so Marche, that we cannot and must not ignore and on which we assume a profound, absolute and terrible responsibility. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Again, with regard to constitutional violations, within the measure under consideration, which - as I said - also refers to other measures examined by this Parliament - perhaps because something or perhaps someone has forgotten, as some of my previous colleagues have rightly pointed out - there is also a rule on motorway concessions in the smell of Community unconstitutionality, which provides for a sort of self-prorogation by dealers, versus unitary management of interconnected routes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us pretend that this is not the subject of a possible Community reference. If once and for all we have ripped the veil of Maya of the Bolkestein directive, why not apply all this also to state concessions [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , provided that there is further contractualisation for the benefit of users and recipients? In addition, colleagues, since Title V of the Constitution did not do so, but we did, and it was the subject of a very rapid constitutional trap, which was celebrated in a very short time, why does the Government - which has a center-left matrix, that is, the same political lineup that has quickly modified Article 117 - not remember to apply it also in the division of competences between the State and the Regions? That is not what is being done in this provision. It is not done with reference to the railway section, to the harbour one and to the so-called development contracts. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that all this involves a much more thorough examination of what has been granted to us, in the very short time on which we have been able to work on this measure: this has also been mentioned by my colleagues. We cannot suffer - we as Senate of the Republic, we as constellers of legislative competence, of that little legislative competence that has not been snatched by the Government - a speed of this kind. We cannot, in a bovine way, endorse such blatantly unconstitutional and so clearly discovered measures, even from the point of view of Article 81 of the Constitution. Let us remember once again, ladies and gentlemen, that this was done by the decree on public administration, namely that this Parliament was asked to vote for confidence in a measure which did not have the necessary cover under Article 81 of the Constitution. Attention: we are continuing to make mistakes that will cost us very much. Again - and this is really the end - we have only stigmatized a few aspects. We have been playing this game for the short time we have in this debate, for the little time we have had for the examination in the Commission and for the zero opportunities we have had to amend the text of this decree, which - I remind myself and all of us - expires on 11 November, but which contains measures which seem useful. The unevenness of the decree-law is described by the same title and by the preamble, which gives the impression of being useful in many infrastructure sectors: rail transport, tourism, port sector, economic development and small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, among the non-covers I was talking about before, there are some that also create social engineering operations to the maximum decrease. I remember one for all: having zero additional resources, this decree-law, in order to finance social shock absorbers by way of derogation, draws on socially fundamental funds, such as the Youth and Women's Employment Fund of the Mezzogiorno and the Fund for the Continuing Training of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Colleagues, we can't keep pretending. Here we are truly endorsing legislative, economic and social operations at the lowest level, which citizens do not understand. They also do not understand why they are written so badly that they are totally intelligible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u49	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u50	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). These operations are not understood by economic operators and neither do the potential users and recipients of this measure. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason and for many and many others that we do not have time to list, we ask that we do not consider the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u51	He asked Senator Cervellini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u52	Madam President, I believe that this evening we are in danger of making yet another attack on the lack of credibility that Parliament has and, in particular, on what concerns us, this House. There is no doubt that what has been seen in the hours preceding today's convocation is something on which we should reflect, but we should also be able to take a measure that contrasts above all with a path of good functioning: I would be tempted to say good government, but it is not up to me, being a force of opposition. However, it is up to me to say that there is mortification here in relation to an action which cannot be postponed any longer. There is no doubt that unconstitutionality is clear from the very title of the measure. In recent months, I and my colleagues have heard, from authoritative representatives of the majority, a kind of appeal to say that it was the last time compared to uneven themes, but that they had a predominant centrality around which, at times, there was also a broad consensus, which could have avoided reaching solutions so messy, whose consequences were sometimes used instrumentally, far from the objectives that the so-called heart of some decree-law contained. 18.45 (Following CERVELLINI). We had appeals and together also promises. We often hear that everything is on the record here, that the commitments that are made are transmitted to the outside world and that the country is able to judge and evaluate. As opposition forces, we must make the commitment - and not as a threat or as a hearsay - to remember certain promises and what has done with them. I remember what was called the decree on the contrast to the drama of feminicide, characterized by absolutely heterogeneous norms: on that occasion it was said: That's enough. This will no longer be the case. Or the last time, without waiting for further comments from the Head of State in this respect. On the other hand, we have systematically implemented this practice: on this occasion, however, we have gone further. Nor has it been possible for the two Commissions - even if they normally manage to do so laboriously and with the times and rhythms proper to a battle - to carry out a selection of three or four questions among the many contained in this decree that, although it lasts and certainly not satisfactory for the oppositions, would have allowed to find a point of synthesis on the level of merit or method. The previous speakers have abundantly listed the reasons for the blatant unconstitutionality of this text, article by article, and I shall therefore spare you a repetition of it. But the delicate policies that are proposed with it are all put together, with the risk of doing on some of them sad school in a panorama that already has fallen enough credibility compared to some of the choices made, also on the level of public works, as well as that of the great policies of intervention to counter the hydrogeological failure that should be put in place. We do not have the panorama of a normal country, and we cannot remember it only when we are faced with a tragedy or yet another scandal, when crocodile tears are wasted in this House, as in other institutional fora, in front of television screens or with tweets. They entrust themselves to the commissioners extraordinary powers in sensitive matters, in which the chronicle has shown us in the past, and still shows us today, that certain great works are all marked by manifest corruption, squadernata and uncovered, but also by the complete inefficiency, the enigantment of the costs and the no longer knowing when they will end also those that we have opposed and that we continue to oppose. However, they have all these characteristics, but they continue stubbornly, giving even more powers and expelling Parliament even more. This cannot leave us indifferent, and above all the forces of the majority cannot think of having the possibility of interrupting this perverse mechanism. How much more evidence - I do not question the absolute good faith of the senators, the senators and, let alone, the Members - must we have in order to understand that it is really time and time to change and that the signal must be sent that this cannot be done? Under a good title, we can't put everything in. With all the asphalt and cement that is in the decree, other than unlocking Italy! We permanently block it in a sensible way, without any capacity to intervene in the substance and the path that these acts presuppose, because it removes responsibility and control possibilities beginning with local authorities and regional institutions, and this is one of the obvious elements of unconstitutionality. Municipalities and Regions are absolutely placed at the corner of the indication and the ability to control works fundamental to their territory. How can we think that all this can be a virtuous circuit when, instead, the result is before everyone's eyes for the things that have already happened? We proceed only with the instruments of the decree, of the trust and, now, with the taking of action by the Senate of the changes also important made to the text of the decree from the House. The Presidents had to give a summary of objective reconstruction of how things went. You have also made the modification of the code of the pleasure boat disappear from the radar. I asked myself a few questions, because he's gone and I can't find him anymore. That was also a decree and, therefore, it was within this logic. Perhaps this has happened because, although he had the nature of the decree, he had too much homogeneity and had seen the competent Commissions work, for the first time since I was in here, comparing themselves in method and merit. Miraculously they had managed to find happy synthesis on some points. Perhaps this is the original sin of that decree and, therefore, it was thought well to make it disappear. You don't know when, how and if anymore. We worked too well and it was too homogeneous and, therefore, you could not reduce confidence, given the comparison. Instead here we proceed while listening to the incredible cry, which is not only reported in the newspapers, of many former provincial councillors, those who with Twitter had been eliminated, but above all of workers and workers, of students and parents. You have said that the Provinces have been eliminated, but I read that thousands and thousands of schools depend on the Provinces. Only the province of Rome has over 500. Then there are the provincial roads, which are the fundamental grid of our country - and not those monsters that you plan, of which no one feels the need and for which there are then episodes of corruption as for the Orte-Mestre - for communication, for the daily life of Italians and Italians, schools, workers and employees. But here everyone, regardless of whether they are center-left or center-right (most of them may be from the Democratic Party), says that we are going to meet a default of provincial administrations, but not intended as an abstract and bureaucratic institution, but as policies called to direct, as services that must be provided. Default! Perhaps this is a matter of urgency. But I don't hear about it here. There is no government that presents a decree of urgency to repair the damages committed only a few months ago! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Cervellini. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I close, President, but I tell you not to fall off the pero in a few months, when some of the works with those characteristics will begin to produce their damage. Don't fall off the pear tree to say you found out there's corruption! This, really, we will not allow with all our heart. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u53	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u56	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, we have listened very carefully to the comments made by the presenters of the constitutional prejudices, but there is one thing I want to emphasise. All have developed different considerations, except the essential one that is to focus the essence of the decree-law, a measure born in recent months precisely with a precise aim: to provide rules that would guarantee the awakening from a prolonged torpor, determined by bureaucratic constraints and a stasis no longer acceptable. Basically, these four speeches have shown that there are forces in this Parliament that are constantly enrolling in the party of the 'no', there are some, to tell the truth, that have always been registered in the party of the 'no' and someone else who has recently joined it. The measure is an intervention to three hundred sixty degrees that affects many economic sectors to guarantee the resumption of investments in the country and a greater attractiveness of Italy. Therefore, it is a system intervention and therefore it was in no way possible to provide for rules covering a single sector. Instead, they are provisions whose homogeneity lies in the final intention to awaken the productive appeal of the country. My colleagues have therefore basically neglected a fundamental aspect. The measure in our examination is a measure whose main aim is to awaken the country from this immobilism, from this stasis, and to respond to this objective has set itself a method, an absolutely holistic approach. The need and urgency are therefore not parameters that can be called into question in this case. This government was born at the beginning of the legislature with the intention of adopting necessary measures that can no longer be deferred. We have often talked about the last chance for our country, the last attempt to exploit before the abyss. On this, everyone says they agree, and then someone must have the courage in this House to stress the alleged non-necessity and urgency of measures which, in line with government action, have the sole purpose of giving this country and future generations the chance to hope that the negative trend of recent years can be reversed. Some have said that the non-urgentness of the provision would manifest itself in the presence in the decree of deferred norms in the time to which implementation is subordinate the adoption of decrees and measures in the months following the same. I must stress that this is only a rational legislative technique of those who are well aware that structural reforms must be carried out in their time, with due timing and above all with the necessary consultation between all the administrations with powers in the areas covered by the measure. Otherwise one falls into the rhetoric of those legislators who, with a single legislative act, are convinced of radically changing the country. Unfortunately, this is not the case and it has never been. Moreover, even the forecasts of extraordinary commissioners and substitute powers in the government in the face of the inertia of the competent administrations does not mean overcoming the regional prerogatives or the hidden centralization of the competences at the head of the state, but simply does not want to sand the development of the country in the face of particular logics that damage the general interest, that general interest that should be defined as national interest and therefore, as such, priority over all the particularisms. The decree unlocks Italy is therefore an important step towards the modernization of the country; not supporting it means being on the side of those who do not want to change it, on the side of immobilism, on the side of the conservatives. Too many times there has been talk of bureaucracy, simplification and simplification. The decree-law to our examination, of the minister Lupi, with the active contribution of the New Right Center, gives a response to all this with the objective to revive the country in the field of infrastructures, housing, energy policies, the contrast to the hydrogeological failure in such a way that with the approved norms no cases similar to that of Genoa are repeated. All this in full respect of the environment and the rules that must be certain and simple; a virtuous path that links efficiency to transparency and legality. We want to restore confidence to citizens and businesses, to those who want to make changes to their homes without getting lost in a thousand red tape. We want to make sure that you go back to investing in Italy and the South. We want to return to being attractive to large foreign investors and investment funds. We want these things not only in words, but in deeds and this standard absolutely demonstrates it. Others, those who have always been members of the party of no and others who have recently joined, obviously, are opposed to this decree because they are opposed to the interest of the country and the national interest; they take their responsibilities. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u59	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I will speak on the constitutional prejudices which have been the subject of many previous speeches. These interventions, although characterized by great passion, seem to me to be lacking from the point of view of the legal rigour on which they are based. The absence of the requirement of homogeneity by the decree-law has been invoked on several occasions. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this requirement is a rather complex issue. Everyone knows that the requirement of homogeneity is not present in the literary wording of Article 77, which requires the existence of requirements of necessity and urgency. However, it is a requirement that has been derived in some way from an interpretation of the Constitutional Court that has also been evolutionary, in the sense that it has been for a short time, since a judgment of 2012, that this requirement has been explicitly recalled. I would like to remind you that initially the homogeneity was not so much related to the decree-law as such, but to the law of conversion: that is to say, it was rightly asked, in my opinion, by the Constitutional Court that at the time of conversion of the decree-law which had been examined on the existence of the requirements of necessity and urgency, the amendments which had been added to the law of conversion, in turn, were consistent with the inspiration of the decree-law and that, therefore, the elements characterising the amendments were marked by the same necessity and urgency and that, from this point of view, there was therefore homogeneity between the decree-law and the law of conversion. Only recently it was considered that homogeneity should refer not only to the law of conversion, but also to the decree-law. There is therefore, first of all, a passage that somehow strengthens and, perhaps, violence on the letter of the Constitution, because we all know that an interpretation of the Constitution is not enough to amend the Constitution, but we need an aggravated procedure provided for in Article 138. In this House, reference has been made on several occasions to the need to comply with this procedure. As Senators Bernini and Bisinella have also done, the judgment n. 22 of 2012 is used. However, they will allow me to point out that it is not enough to quote the sentence, but it is also necessary to read it. What does Judgment No. 22 of 2012 say? It reads as follows: The urgent need to provide may relate to a plurality of rules common to the unitary nature of the cases governed, or also to the intention of dealing with complex and varied extraordinary situations, which require objectively heterogeneous interventions, - I stress: heterogeneous - therefore related to different subjects, but addressed solely to the sole purpose of preparing urgent remedies to extraordinary situations that have come to determine them. Therefore, the judgment No 22 of 2012, which is systematically recalled in support of the need for homogeneity, in reality expressly, verbally, literally recalls the possibility of intervention \\'objectively heterogeneous \\\ provided addressed to a single purpose. And what is the unitary purpose to which the measure under consideration refers? It is to give urgent impetus to the resumption of investments and productive activities. It is a measure which, as has been mentioned, unlocks many impasses that have come to be created over time. There are areas of intervention that are now firm from the point of view of competences, financial allocations and implementation responsibilities, and this decree has the aim of relaunching the capacity, by the Government and Parliament, to adopt measures aimed at development. Development that everyone in this House has systematically called for, including during the recent debate in preparation for the European Council. We cannot, on the one hand, call for development and, on the other hand, shout for scandal when measures are being taken to implement growth. The decree in question is in fact aimed at growth and greater productivity for the economy, and it also meets the requirements that the same oppositions have repeatedly invoked, with the same passion with which they have tried to block its examination today, invoking the lack of constitutional requirements. I would remind you that this measure provides for the construction of strategic infrastructure projects that are indifferent and urgent, seeks to promote the strengthening of motorway networks and telecommunications, as well as to improve airport functionality. I still remember that the environmental provisions are aimed at mitigating the hydrogeological risk and how many of us today remember with what passion a few days ago we remembered the tragedy of Genoa and how urgent it is to provide for the mitigation of this risk! The decree intervenes for the protection of ecosystems, the adaptation of water infrastructures, the overcoming of exceptional crisis situations related to waste management, as well as to introduce measures to ensure energy supply and to promote the exploitation of national energy resources. This measure also deals with bureaucratic simplification, the revival of the real estate sector, the support of national productions through measures of attraction for foreign investments and promotion of Made in Italy. Finally, it provides for the refinancing and granting of social shock absorbers by way of derogation from existing legislation, in order to ensure adequate protection of workers' incomes and to support social cohesion. I therefore believe that there is no doubt that the measure is characterised by requirements of necessity and urgency. The possible presence of provisions that are not immediately implemented does not apply to such requirements, since the Constitutional Court, in the same judgment n. 22 of 2012, recalled that the requirements must be referred to the measure in its unitity, i.e. the presence of provisions that are not immediately applicable in order to reduce the existence of the requirements of necessity and urgency, which must be related to the measure as a whole. Before concluding, I would like to remind Senator Bernini that the Government has provided in an extraordinary way for the reduction of the backwardness of the implementing decrees. Those who read last Sunday's edition of "Il Sole 24 Ore" will have seen how progress has been made and today we are 52 percent of the implementation of the pending decrees: the Government has inherited more than 900 decrees to implement and today, with an extraordinary effort, we are under 500. In the light of these considerations, I do not think that this measure can be denied the fact that it is fully in line with the same characteristics identified by the constitutional jurisprudence and that therefore the constitutional conditions that today are contested here fully exist. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u62	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am determined to speak after listening to President Marinello and Senator Cociancich, who almost wanted to attempt an action that I do not think they can succeed. For President Marinello, it seems that today the House must divide itself among lovers of progress, of the will to get our country out of the pockets of regression and unemployment and those who resist this noble attempt, the others who would rather not keep the country in this state. Let us try for a moment to make an operation of truth, if we succeed, after which clearly this House will vote on the measures, but it must do so in absolute conscience. First of all we must know, but above all let the country know, that what this Government is proposing today, what the Government offers to Parliament's attention today in order to make it approve in a deaf and blind way by a majority that can only adapt to party indications, is an absolutely counterproductive act with respect to the interests of our country; it is an act that benefits only the National Council forensics, because it will favour an unlimited number of appeals in front of the Consulta and will lead to an unlimited number of disputes between bodies that not only will not unblock the country, but will block it in judicial pastries whose end I do not know if we can see it ourselves. It has been decided that the parliamentary passage, the call of force of the majority to vote on constitutionality regardless of this provision, is like the passage from the Jordan River which constituted purification of all sins. Eh, no! The vote of the parliamentary majority does not constitute a cleaning up of the obvious and macroscopic constitutionalities that this measure has. But in order to support my thesis I will not resort to my previous speech or to significant positions that have taken the constitutional jurisprudence or to authoritative and forgotten references of our President of the Republic, who sometimes preaches but such another rockets in a different way from the preaches he has previously carried out, because I must say that objectively in the decree-law under consideration we find many denials of those indications that had been given us in a formal and solemn way by official letter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As I said, I will therefore use the words spoken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by Senator Cociancich, who, with his argument, tried - I understand - with difficulty in exercising rhetorical powers to cover this favourable vote of his Group, but not later than yesterday evening he argued that Article 5 does not consider adequately clear the purpose of the provisions of the powers attributed to the State and that the mere power to take over a Region in all the active and passive relationships deriving from the building concessions constitutes a violation of the typical powers of the local authorities that we introduced in our legal system through the famous law Bassanini with which we wanted to divide the powers of the State. With the decree-law under consideration now and immediately we succeed in denying a ten-year approach to our administrative life. But then it says that, with respect to Article 158 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 3 April 2006, it seems appropriate to clarify the scope of the provision, which seems to involve the compulsory approval of the projects of the interventions provided for therein (the concession projects are), thus damaging the constitutional autonomy granted to the local authorities. In paragraph 5, it critically points out the regulatory scope of the provision that, in providing for a simplification of the expropriative procedures, with particular reference to the relation of the consistency state and to the minutes of placing in possession of the soils, seems to mitigate to an unqualified extent the contribution of the representatives of the Regions and the entities concerned. But another report, even more serious, is Senator Cociancich. Friends of the majority, be careful, carefully follow the concerns - right! - of Senator Cociancich against this measure. It tells us that Article 28 highlights the violation of the constitutional prerogatives conferred on the local authority in the definition of the contents of the building permits and in the identification of the conditions that justify them. Senator Cociancich tells us, who is a good person and a majority person. We have to be careful. I don't think, Senator Marinello, that Senator Cociancich can be entered among the brakes of our economy and our Republic. I know him and I know that this is not the case: Senator Cociancich participates with us in the will of ransom of our country. But then, as it is careful, in article 31 it has found that the matter of tourism is attributable to the legislative competences of the Regions and the decree-law cannot intervene on a matter that is attributed to the Regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And then, dear friends, the pearl, the seasoning, the cherry on the cake (we use all the attributes we want), after decades of hiring battles, of involvements, on how dirty they were inside those who did not want the separate collection of waste. Do you remember that? Those who didn't want separate collection were retrograde. When Berlusconi went to Naples to try to unlock the incinerators he seemed the super-dirty who still thought of the incinerators, while the advanced and modern world... Remember from those benches, friends of the left, how many did you tell us? The incinerators were public enemy number one. Today vote for this decree! Authorize incinerators all over Italy, everywhere! Liberalize immediately the possibility of saying that separate collection no longer serves any purpose and adopt substitute powers, even in this case in clear violation of the constitutional rule. In fact, in part of the decree it is said that the powers substituted in this case can help us with the simple assumption of the inertia of the competent agencies: if the Municipality The Constitutional Court has clearly said that substitute powers can only be activated when there are serious and exceptional hypotheses. How do you marry the constitutionality of a text written in this way, compared to a consolidated decision of the Constitutional Court? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] So, who is in favour of development and wants to free our economy from the snares of wrong legislation and who, on the other hand, wants to lower it further with further snares, further appeals and further prosecutions? [[Recalls of the President]] I'll finish. Senator Marinello, you, in your capacity as President of the Environment Commission, have often summoned people, bodies, executives: we have heard so many of them against the drilling of the sea and other issues. But, Senator Marinello, did you read this decree? Take away the competences of the regions that know their territory, their seas and their coasts, and invoke them as a State. On the contrary, he called them not to the State, but directly to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, because Renzi did not even want the confusion of all these Ministers around: directly to the Presidency of the Council! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Mauro. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). All to the President of the Council of Ministers. All centralized, all state again. Now State has become beautiful. Dear friends of the left, or you are in a moment of profound ideological-cultural confusion, of renegotiating your historical principles or, indeed, you are adhering to a project, what this decree implements, of absolute commodification of what is the heritage of our wealth and the will for development of our country. [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u63	After this passionate debate, ladies and gentlemen, we must proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Biinella and other senators (QP1), Senator Cioffi and other senators (QP2), Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (QP3) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Colleagues, on the timetable and on the continuation of the general debate, if there are no hints of disagreement, I propose that the general debate should take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. Not making any comments, it remains so established. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u66	AMATI (PD). Mr President, I rise to demand a precise position of the Italian Government on the issue of nuclear disarmament and to call for the discussion of that motion which we had drawn up with friends of the disarmament network and with the Blessed peacemakers and presented together with other colleagues on 21 July 2014 (I refer to motion 1-00291), a few days after the sixty-ninth anniversary of the tragedy of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Every anniversary, in fact, should not be a gymnasium of words, but use of memory to implement concrete policies. That is why a debate in this House would be useful to support the position and participation of the Italian Government at the International Conference on the Humanitarian Impact of Nuclear Weapons, to be held in Vienna on 8 and 9 December. In fact, we want our country to be able to contribute actively to a dialogue on the possibility of negotiating a treaty banning nuclear weapons. As you know, last 26 September 2014 was celebrated for the first time the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, established by the United Nations on the 30th anniversary of the night when Soviet colonel Stanislav Petrov, despite the alarms he saw on his screens, revealed then a computer error, did not launch the nuclear bombers against the United States. An event called for with the aim of increasing awareness of the threat posed by nuclear weapons, still today, and supporting international efforts in the path to the total ban on these unacceptable instruments. We want the government to participate actively in the Vienna Conference, including representatives of Parliament, local authorities and civil society in its delegation, and to support the proposal to start multilateral negotiations on a nuclear arms ban treaty as soon as possible. The UN has already committed itself to convening a high-level conference by 2018, so we need to strengthen this path and develop it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u68	Senators Candiani, Divina and Centinario, please let the colleague speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u69	Please, Senator Biinella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u70	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to make an announcement, to request the Presidency's intervention and to raise an issue which I hope my fellow Members will also listen to. This is a fact of a truly unheard of gravity, which happened in Treviso, my Province. Among other things, yesterday there was another episode of violence: a rape against a girl by a clandestine, free to circulate, to go to a local audience in the evening to get drunk undisturbed, then going to the spot. But above all I want to denounce a fact for which I tabled an urgent question this morning to the Justice Minister Orlando and the Interior Minister Alfano. I am referring to a ruling by the gip of the Treviso court that, with an interpretation on which I ask the competent minister to make a verification, has released three of five members of a gang of multiple illegal Albanians, because he considered that the clues against them, found by the police forces, were not sufficient for protective custody. Obviously, when released, it is assumed that these people, who I repeat are clandestine, have gone to the spot. Although a fierce discussion has opened within the Treviso Court's attorney's office that is starting a verification procedure in these hours, and probably a request for review by the Chief Prosecutor, I think it will be very difficult for them to resume. Faced with such a situation, with the social alarm that is determined and the increasing sense of insecurity that citizens live in, it really seems to be seeing a paradoxical vision of the state in which the country is left: they end up suffering and being deprived of justice the citizens blameless and are rewarded and released the criminals. Looks like some of them were spotted celebrating in a bar this morning. I would like to refer to the question I put to the Minister in order to ask the Presidency for an intervention so that the Minister can respond and act as a matter of urgency, and to know whether he does not feel that he is going to carry out a verification to assess whether the conditions, according to the interpretation of the rule, are justified; and whether it is not appropriate to carry out an inspection. In any case, I would like to ask for an interest in something which seems absolutely shameful to us. I would also point out that the forces of order themselves find themselves frustrated in their action, in their intervention, because they risk their lives every day for the defence of the citizens and the day after their activities are completely frustrated in the face of situations of this kind that, I repeat, only fuel increasing social alarm. One cannot think of having a country left behind in laxity and in the most absolute permitivism, with all these illegals who are also free to circulate undisturbed. Instead of putting in place measures to improve the rules and to ensure strict certainty in the penalty, all we are concerned about is emptying prisons and indults. In the face of such a situation, I would ask that the ministers responsible respond to my question as a matter of urgency in order to prepare all the measures which, within the framework of their competence, are able to put in place to check whether or not there really were the conditions for this release and to take the necessary measures accordingly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u71	Senator Biinella, we will send a reminder to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u74	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I had hoped that I would not have to start this speech, having to talk about a new dramatic situation in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, with the complete isolation of the Alta Valtaro and the Berceto area, following new floods. I asked to speak because I believe that in this House we must also give witness and gratitude to the expressions that, in these tragedies, give a sense of how much Italians know how to react and how much capacity we always have to go forward. So I want to testify to the example of the mud angels, who in Parma helped to free most of the affected area from the mud 15 days ago. They are young people who for a whole week, with the consent of the teachers, have abandoned the school and have dedicated themselves, day and night, to the liberation, from the mud and debris, of the houses, the hospital and the nursing home hit by the flood. It was a truly illuminating example of horizontal subsidiarity, but above all a sign of how our youth can be capable of great seriousness, great maturity and great commitment, when the common good is at stake. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u75	The Presidency supports your thanks, because I think it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-345.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, November 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.32 a.m.
