ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-00665, on the protection of human rights in relation to the performance of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u4	Madam President, the Italian Government has followed the Russian law prohibiting the dissemination of information intended to form non-traditional sexual orientations in minors since the beginning of this controversial parliamentary process. We are convinced that the entry into force of this legislation has represented, and represents, a dangerous vulnus for the freedom of demonstration and association of the LGBTI community and, more generally, opens the way to wider limitations of human and civil rights, in particular freedom of expression in Russia. For this reason, from the start, we have been particularly attentive and sensitive to this issue of discrimination in relation to sexual orientation, expressing alarm and concern not only in relation to Russia, which is the main subject of the question, but also in relation to other facts: for example, homophobic laws recently adopted in Nigeria and Uganda. Since last year, Italy, both bilaterally (and I will take these interventions into account) and in the wider multilateral context, and particularly in the European Union and the Council of Europe (of which Russia is one of the main Member States), has expressed concerns about this measure, also because, given the other restrictive measures of human rights and fundamental freedoms launched by the Russian authorities, all these measures risk having negative repercussions on the strategic partnership between Italy and Russia. More specifically, also because of the universal and indivisible nature of the fundamental freedoms that are threatened by this measure adopted by the Duma, the Government has chosen to give priority to the treatment of this issue in the context of international fora (from the United Nations, to the European Union, to the Council of Europe), where, with force, we have been able to emphasize the opposition of Russian legislation to all the negotiating instruments for the protection of human rights, starting, in the UN, from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which Russia is a contracting party, as well as, at European level, to the European Convention on Human Rights. We have chosen, in essence, each time a seat in line with an international negotiating instrument of which Russia was a party to contest the opposition of these regulations to the covenant instruments of which Russia was a party. In all these fora, we have repeatedly (and not on our own) called on the Russian leadership to fulfil its international commitments, starting with the Council of Europe, on non-discrimination, freedom of expression, association and assembly. It seems to us that among all of them the European Union's track is the most effective and likely to produce results, since the Union can basically include these awareness-raising actions within the institutional and conceptual framework of the strategic partnership with Russia, which provides for specific and regular human rights consultations. In the last round of these consultations (the contents of which are agreed at the level of the 28 Member States, thus giving even more strength to the negotiating position), what took place in Brussels on 28 November last year, there was a specific chapter devoted to the situation of the LGBTI community in Russia, within which not only Italy but the whole of the European Union explicitly asked the Russian counterpart to reconsider the whole of the legislation in question as a matter of urgency. The EU can use EU guidelines on the rights of LGBTI people to achieve this objective, which have also been drawn up with our input from the relevant working groups and adopted at political level by the 28 EU Foreign Ministers in June last year. It is an instrument dedicated to the promotion of these rights, clearly in the key of condemnation and elimination of all discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity that are used in the external action of the European Union and of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union through démarches, declarations of the High Representative and other initiatives that have media value. They are therefore guidelines that standardise the behaviour of EU ministers. Here in Italy you know that we have recently reconstituted the Interministerial Committee for Human Rights (CIDU), on the impulse of the MAEC, and we are working (not a few months) on an event in Rome, on the occasion of the World Day against Homophobia (May 17), dedicated to the theme of the implementation of the European guidelines to which I referred, one year after their adoption, and also to a reconnaissance, in the light of the report of the UN High Commissioner on the violation of the human rights of LGBTI people, on the current state of the situation here in Italy. This initiative will also involve our diplomatic network for the awareness-raising actions that the CIDU wants to carry out during the entire six months of the Italian Presidency of the European Union. Within the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers has recently examined the report of the Steering Committee on Human Rights on the application of Recommendation 5/2010 on discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, which is the means of pressure that we can have in that forum against the Moscow authority to bring it back once again, even through that forum, on a fair track. In the context of these discussions, as far as we are concerned, in Strasbourg Italy is trying to avoid any instrumental logic of opposition that sees, on the one hand, the so-called traditional values (this is the Russian perspective) accompanied by accusations against us of double standards or the creation of special rights and, on the other hand, the European perspective, which is based on the universality of the right of every human being not to suffer justified discrimination on sexual orientation or on gender identity, as already happens for other racial or religious differences. At the United Nations, for the last multilateral forum, the LGBTI dossier has recently become a priority and together with the other like-minded countries, that is, on our own direction, we are preparing the ground for a new resolution in the Human Rights Council on the rights of LGBTI people. It is not an easy initiative, because there is resistance in the public opinion of a part of the membership, for example in African countries, but I think that if it is carried out well and will come to port it will also have indirect positive effects on the Russian affair. On the bilateral level, the issue was discussed with the Russian counterparts at the most recent meetings we had at ministerial level: the visit of Minister Bonino to Moscow on 15 June 2013; the Foreign Minister-Defense in Rome on 6 August 2013; the conversation of Minister Bonino with the President of the Foreign Commission of the Council of the Russian Federation Mikhail Margelov, on 9 September 2013 in Rome; the conversation, once again, of Minister Bonino with Minister Lavrov at the Intergovernmental Summit in Trieste in November 2013. In all circumstances - here and there - the subject has been systematically debated. In these days, as you have seen, the President-in-Office of the Council has confirmed his participation in the inaugural ceremony of the Olympic Games in Sochi: an occasion to which - I remember - they will also speak - I am glad to recall this element for something that I will say later - the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Jagland and, only limiting ourselves to the European Union, nine Heads of State and five Heads of Government. The President-in-Office of the Council publicly reiterated, as you know, Italy's opposition to any discriminatory legislation against homosexuals in the sporting field and not, therefore, reaffirming that Italy's very high-level presence in Sochi will become a further opportunity to repeat this position to the Russian interlocutors in the framework of a dialogue that we consider to be consolidated and constructive, but also very frank and honest, without reluctance. I therefore believe that the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council in Sochi will testify to the Italian value attached to sport as a moment and instrument of dialogue between civil societies at global level: an exercise that must be complementary to the political dialogue that we support with conviction. Within this dialogue it is possible for us to develop also sensitive and important issues, such as those to which we have referred. Finally, I would like to point out that, during the informal meeting of the Sport Ministers held in Vilnius on 1 October last year, a declaration was issued to which 18 Member States of the European Union joined, including Italy, which recognises the value of sport as a universal language to educate people in the values of respect for diversity, tolerance and fairness, as well as as as a means of combating all forms of discrimination and promoting the social inclusion of all. Just this morning the news appeared that Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, speaking in the International Olympic Committee, on the eve of the opening of the Games, said: "The world raises its voice against gay attacks and has reaffirmed its commitment to this. In view of this news, we believe it is urgent that our country too, having strongly adhered to the spirit of Vilnius, move from declarations to facts, filling a gap that still remains in the sports code of our National Olympic Committee, where Article 6 on the principle of non-discrimination, fails to mention precisely that in relation to sexual orientation. So there is some homework that we also have to do: this is the signal that we kindly, but firmly, turn to the National Olympic Committee. We are required to be consistent with what we have done and said so far and - I add - the coherence that we need to be even more credible in terms of candidacy for the Olympic Games of 2024. For this reason, we have finally decided to revitalize, within the framework of our complex and structured partnership with Moscow, also the Forum for Civil Society Dialogue. I think - I hope - that it will be a further and useful platform for discussion, deepening and reflection on this issue which the question raises with determination, namely discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, in such a way as to safeguard freedom of expression in a convincing way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u7	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Pistelli for his articulation and also for the complexity of the answer he wanted to give and which certainly contains some positive elements. In particular, I would like to highlight the announcement that an initiative has been made for 17 May next, International Day against Homophobia, which I welcome with great pleasure, as well as the position expressed by the Government on the need for the Italian Olympic Committee to amend Article 6 on anti-discrimination, including sexual orientation and - I hope - gender identity. I also note very favorably the list of commitments in which the Government has been involved in these months, of which we had already heard in further talks with the Ministry. It remains a very important point in my view that the Government, in particular the President-in-Office of the Council, wants to have a very clear attitude on tomorrow's day when it comes to Sochi. Deputy Minister Pistelli recalled the very clear and clear words of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon delivered this morning in front of the International Olympic Committee. I hope that Mr Mario Pescante, whose behaviour is mentioned in the question put by me and Senator Idem and signed by 20 other senators, would also be present to hear the words of the UN Secretary-General, who have been very clear. I therefore expect that the behaviour of the Government and the position announced by the President of the Council Letta in Sochi tomorrow will be equally clear, starting from a premise: there is an area of autonomy of the sporting aspect of the Olympics that must not be touched by political polemics. I hope that the Italian delegation will be able to participate with the greatest possible number of successes. Obviously, far from us the intention to produce a kind of boycott of those Olympics. There is, however, a level of politicization of these Olympics, which has few precedents, by President Putin. I believe that, just as it happened on other occasions (I think of the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, with the symbolic victory of Jesse Owens, who modified the political system that Hitler had wanted to give to those Olympics, or what happened in 1968 with the gesture of the black athletes against the racial policies of their own country, that is, the United States), also in this case the political aspect of the demonstration is not and is not only an exaltation by Putin of his own system of power and of his own person, but can also bring with him the theme of international attention on the issue of rights violated in Russian, in particular (because this is perhaps the most exciting theme of this last year) those of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual people. In this respect, very strong positions have been taken, stronger than those of Italy, by the leaders of major Western countries (United States, Germany, Great Britain and France). Italy has an additional task, because compared to these is a country within which respect for the rights of LGBTI people is particularly unprotected. There is a spread between the rights of these communities in our country and that of other growing European countries, because while we stand firm the recognition of rights in other countries continues to reach different stages. Today we also go to Sochi to promote the candidacy for the Olympic Games in Rome in 2024. Let's make sure (it's not just paradox) that from here to 2024 Italy does not have to be the subject of attention by the international community for the violation of the rights of LGBTI people. I therefore hope that tomorrow can also be marked by a recognizable gesture by Italy towards the international community, starting from a presupposition, and I quote the words spoken yesterday by Romano Prodi, that the Olympic Games have always been the moment of the cessation of wars, and this must be respected. I agree with both the approach and the statement. I would add that when wars cease, that is the time of politics. And it is the policy that must, precisely, manage an area of peace, such as that of the Olympic Games, however, ensuring that peace is not a denial of rights, but that it is, according to that advanced consideration that today the assembly of the civil nations can only consider essential and priority, the place where the rights and well-being of all citizens and of all citizens is promoted in an equal and equal way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u8	The following are questions 3-00281 and 3-00290 on the need for continuity in the fight against mafia crime. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I respond jointly to the questions with which Senator Orrù and Senator Santangelo, as the first signatories, ask to know the initiatives that the Government intends to take to safeguard the competences acquired by the police leaders in the fight against the mafia, preventing them from being transferred to operational contexts other than the Sicilian ones. The questions are concerned that this territory may be deprived of officials with unmistakable investigative capacity, especially in the fight against organised crime. The question is essentially due to the recent transfer of Dr. Giuseppe Linares from the Trapani police station to the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate of Naples, on which the Chief of Police and the Minister of the Interior reported in recent hearings before the Anti-Mafia Commission. In this regard, I recall first of all that Dr. Linares has been the first head of the State Police since 1 January 2010 and, since January 2011, he has been the head of the anti-crime division of the Trapani police station. Previously, since January 1996, he had directed the mobile team of that same place, where, moreover, he has served since the end of the vocational training course, i.e. since 1992. Its transfer was part of a general and broader plan of shifts in management positions, which involved 45 state police leaders, carried out with a view to ensuring adequate coverage of the central and territorial units of the Public Security Administration. The delicate task of head of the centre of the DIA in Naples, entrusted to Dr. Linares, in addition to being of undisputed and high prestige, was the result of a careful and thoughtful evaluation by the Administration, aimed at enhancing the professional skills and specific skills acquired by the official. The investigative articulation to which the same was entrusted, moreover, as well as Senator Orrù confirms in her question, is of absolute strategic importance for the system of public security, precisely in the contrast to the phenomenon of organized crime of the mafia, especially in a region historically afflicted by the most serious and pervicacious manifestations connected to such criminal phenomenology. As for the specificity of the Sicilian reality, I come therefore to the other question that was posed, it has been avoided to disperse the patrimony of experiences and investigative competences acquired over the years, assigning to the mobile team of the police station of Trapani, since February 2011, an official who for almost fourteen years has been the main collaborator of Dr. Linares and who, having shared with him experiences, operational results and investigative methodologies, will continue to guarantee that professionalism and effectiveness of the police action that that territory certainly needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, of course, my question was not addressed solely to the case of Dr Linares, but was in a more general context. I did not, therefore, specifically refer to this transfer. However, I would like to thank you for your answer, but it does not satisfy us and I will try to articulate the reasons briefly. First of all, it does not satisfy us from a methodological point of view. Let us remember that this question was submitted on 29 July 2013: seven months later it was considered appropriate to reply, when these passages had already taken place. The answer to my question was expected about 20 days ago and one day earlier it was announced that it would not be carried out. The following week it was announced that Minister Alfano would respond to the anti-Mafia Commission. Today I hear that you are responding here in this House, together with two questions that are very different. The answer also does not agree with me, Madam Undersecretary, because the specificity and problems of the Mafia associations, especially in Trapani, are very different from those of other localities. I really believe that behind pseudo-premiums there is, instead, poor sensitivity and poor respect for those who, on the territory, have acquired that experience fundamental precisely for the fight against crime. You yourself pointed out, in the case of Dr. Linares' curriculum, how important those experiences applied on the territory were. To carry these experiences in a role, yes, of promotion, but in another context, as can be that of the DIA of Naples, it seems irrational. It could have been more logical to hear the people who work directly on the territory and understand if roles were available, perhaps even higher than what he has held, for example at the DIA in Palermo or in other areas always local. I say this to you with a bit of regret, because probably greater dialogue and coordination, perhaps also by reporting in Parliament on what may be the criteria and the logic of these movements, could really lead to optimal solutions, which has not happened in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u15	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for coming to reply. I, unlike my colleague, have not tabled a general question, but I have focused it on my own territory. I would like to stress, in fact, that I would not have allowed myself to question certain choices if I did not know the reality of my territory. It is essential first of all to bear in mind that, when it comes to criminal organizations, camorra is one thing, the mafia is something else. Surely the promotion of Dr. Linares has made everyone happy to the extent that it has been recognized an acquired professionalism and an experience. But outside its territory, I believe - without a subject of denial - that, however, he had to fall into a different reality, which is not ours. I tell you the truth: I would not have expected an answer to this question, but, after the arrests of 13 December last and after all that Dr. Linares did in a very short time, I thought the answer would come, but only to demonstrate the goodness of this choice. I don't think it was a good choice. I don't want to denigrate an excellent official: you rightly said just now that a person has arrived in Trapani who has collaborated with Dr. Linares 14 years. This does not mean to diminish the investigative activity or the investigators of my city and my province. We simply want to stress that it is absolutely unthinkable to deprive of this type of experience a region like ours, a difficult territory exactly as Campania is: I do not mean that Sicily is more difficult, on the contrary, we should try to integrate the various experiences. Did this person cooperate with Dr. Linares for 14 years? Well, he had to get there first, keep working with him and help him train other people who could investigate with him. I do not know what mechanisms or rules govern certain decisions. Surely there will be a need to make changes on places that go to free, but I refuse to believe that, even waiting for a couple of months, a solution of equal level and equal gratification could not be found in Sicily. If Dr. Linares had stayed in Sicily, even in Palermo, the range of action would have remained the same. Attention: great praise for the latest arrests. It is clear that in Sicily we continue to work and the investigative body everything, from the Carabinieri to the police, to the Guardia di Finanza, works incessantly. But, Madam Undersecretary, believe me, following the latest arrests I also wondered why this superlatant could not finally be caught with Dr. Linares' contribution. In her statements, Dr. Principality also pointed out that however this mobster is there, he has his own manor and has been fugitive for a long time but every time you are close to catching suddenly it is as if something escaped. I repeat, I cannot be satisfied with your reply, Secretary. I am therefore partially satisfied: firstly, because it was an urgent question and I thought that the answer was given more quickly; secondly, I continue to believe that with his professionalism and his commitment, Dr Linares has shown that he is really a very capable and decisive person at certain times; he should not have been removed. You, Undersecretary, have rightly observed that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission has also listened to the Head of Police. Two days ago, however, the Internet site "Narcomafie" reported that just recently the National Anti-Mafia Commission heard the judges and judges of Trapani who reported to the commissioners that: Since Dr. Linares left the leadership of the police headquarters in Trapani, the number of seizure proposals made by the police has been significantly reduced. It is information, I repeat, that I learned two days ago from the website "Narcomafie". So I'm stuck in my idea. I think that certain choices need to be assessed more carefully on the various territories; another is living in the territories, another is setting up an administrative organization chart to fill posts and various investigative levels.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u16	Following is the question 3-00376 on the obligation to register with the National Forensic Fund for all lawyers enrolled in the Register. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u17	Madam President, Senators, as is well known to the interviewing senators, paragraph 8 of Article 21 of Law No 247 of 31 December 2012 on the reform of the forensic order has provided that the registration of the legal professions in the register involves the simultaneous registration of the National Insurance and Forensic Assistance Fund. This forecast aims to strengthen those characteristics of effectiveness, continuity, habituality and prevalence of the exercise of the profession of forensics, to which the permanence of the registration to the Register is subordinate, and aims to remedy the phenomenon - up to now significant percentage - of lawyers who practice the legal profession without being enrolled in the relative pension fund. By this way, the reform law also aims to achieve the shared objective of broadening the contribution base for the benefit of the generality of the members. It is an undeniable fact that there is no correspondence between the number of lawyers enrolled in the professional register and that of the members of the forensic fund. Over the course of time this discrasia has remained substantially unchanged, despite a considerable increase in the number of professionals. In fact, taking as a reference a significant period of time of twenty-six years, it is found - according to the data provided to the Ministry of Justice by the Forensic Court - that in 1985 the lawyers enrolled in the register were 48,327, of which only 37,495 (equal to 77,58 percent of the total) were enrolled in the Forensic Court; in 2011, of the 220,000 lawyers enrolled in the Register, only 162,820 (equal to 74 percent) were enrolled in the Cassa. In view of the recent entry into force of the legislation which makes it compulsory to register for lawyers enrolled in the register, it is not yet possible to assess the consequences, even in relation to the cancellation of the register of some professionals. In any case, the cancellation from the register may result from the determination of the lack of those characteristics of effectiveness, continuity, habituality and prevalence of the professional exercise, of which it has been said, where there are no justified reasons. Special rules of favour are provided for in respect of the first years of professional activity. It is also known that the following ninth paragraph of Article 21 of the reform refers to a regulation of the forensic fund, to be adopted within one year of the entry into force of the reform (2 February 2013), the identification of the contributory minimums due in the case of registered persons without the achievement of income parameters. The law states that the Regulation should also determine, where appropriate, temporary conditions for the exemption or reduction of contributions for persons under particular conditions and the possible application of the contributory scheme. This regulation was adopted by the Cassa forense at the end of January and will have to be forwarded to the vigilant ministries for final approval. Indeed, the advantages granted by the new regulation are not aimed at the expulsion from the register of the 50,000 non-members of the Cassa, but rather at facilitating access to the legal profession and its social security system. The young newer member of the register who, according to law, will be enrolled in the Cassa, will be able to count on a social protection network at a reduced cost for the first six years of registration in the Cassa and with the possibility of palmating 50% of the charges due over a period of the first eight years of registration. At the end of this period, or complete the payment of the minimum contributions due, entering fully into the social security system, or you will be credited a lower period of contribution seniority, proportional to the contributions paid, without generating social security debt charged to the general system. This is a solution that reproduces, in essence, rules already present in the special management INPS giving, in addition, the possibility of integrating in instalments the minimum contribution due, up to the eighth year of registration, to enjoy then the entire period of contribution seniority matured. The new rules do not create discrimination because the new entry route outlined will apply, from 2013, to all lawyers who are in the same subjective conditions (professional income less than € 10,300, whether they are registered with the Cassa in the future, or are already registered with the entry into force of the new professional law, on 2 February 2013). The audience of potential beneficiaries, therefore, concerns not only the 50,000 professionals not yet registered with the Cassa, but also the approximately 37,000 already registered, but with incomes below 10,300 euros per year, provided that they are in the first years of registration with the Cassa. Finally, for the sake of completeness in relation to the questions asked by the interrogators, I must point out that, to date, no acts of legislative initiative aimed at intervening on the discipline under consideration are being studied by this Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u20	MOLINARI (M5S). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, we cannot, of course, be satisfied with the answer. The concern is not only of the interviewing senators, but of the young lawyers, because they are mainly affected by this so-called reform, which strangely - indeed, not so much - seems to follow the same path that led to the Fornero reform, that is, without any attention for the young. It is regrettable that this Government has come here to talk about its commitment to the defence of young people, also with respect to other European countries, but that then, when it comes to applying the choices to be made, young people forget about them. The serious thing is precisely the plant on which started what we consider an improvised law, in particular the paragraph of the article you mentioned, because then it was transformed into the regulation applied to the forensic fund as an obligation to participate in the minimum contributions, regardless of the income and income that young lawyers produce and, I continue to say, young professionals. In my opinion, this is a choice that follows the same path taken with the reform of the overall structure of justice, that in this country seems to be making justice something that is only in favour of the rich, since it is continuing to exclude those who want to exercise a free profession - and I stress this expression - based only on respect for what should represent the polar star of those who carry out this profession, namely dignity and decorum and not the number from the performances and invoices that can be shown from a profitable point of view. For those who want to be a lawyer, especially in the early years of activity, there is this difficulty. This occupation should not depend on how many banks or insurance companies are engaged and therefore on how much they can be shown in return, but on how much they are committed to defending the freedoms of the citizen. This attack, which is carried out through the increase of the unified contribution and the stamps, prevents citizens, especially those who have no income, from turning to justice. On the other hand, there is an attack on those who represent the bulwarks of defending the individual freedoms of citizens in this State, i.e. lawyers and especially young lawyers. Not to mention the violations that in my opinion will be around this law, which I believe will be subject to appeal by the various associations that have harshly criticized it, since it violates several articles of our Constitution, and not least Article 53, which refers to the ability to contribute. I repeat that we were not satisfied with your reply. The association of private social security institutions has estimated that with this reform about 20,000 young lawyers will have to abandon the free profession and will not be able to exercise it, precisely because the two aspects have been connected: the registration to the register, which allows to exercise the profession, and the registration to the forensic fund. They are two mechanisms that should be completely different. I repeat, it has been estimated that about 20,000 young professionals will be forced to no longer be able to exercise their free profession. I believe that with this the freedom of our country has lost another piece.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u21	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u22	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-186.ana.u23	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 11 February, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.44 p.m.
