ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u9	Mr President, there is no problem. I regard it today as a significant and positive slip. Colleagues and colleagues, the bill we are discussing deals with the guarantees for gender representation for the election of Italian members to the European Parliament, starting with several draft laws, including that of Senator Fedeli, whom I have the pleasure of having signed. The adoption of gender-based measures in these days has been said of all kinds: quotas, Indian reservations, discrimination on the contrary, and the obstacle to meritocracy. Unfortunately, the issue in my opinion is one, and it is that in this country, and often in this Parliament too, there is no real European anti-discrimination culture, and the result is that any action to combat discrimination is understood as a sort of privilege intervention against a category. Now, action to combat discrimination is not an improper intervention on the free take-up of natural events. Of course, it will conform to the natural instincts that a numerically majority group, or, as in this case, a socially stronger and more powerful group is imposed on other groups less strong, less powerful, less numerous, or on individuals. But our social assembly and our democratic civilization are based not on Ferine mechanisms, but on that social pact of which the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights is the main foundation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u10	Colleagues, there is an unbearable noise for those who have to intervene and for those who have to listen. If one is not interested in the topic, he can go and discuss or chat even outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u11	It is there, in the 1948 Declaration, that the States have established that all the rights and freedoms set forth are the responsibility of all without distinction of sex; and, in Article 21, that everyone has the right to participate also directly in the government of his own country. And above all, it is there that, in Article 7, the right of all and all to equal protection against all discrimination lies. It is precisely on the concept of discrimination that we must understand. Article 3 of our Constitution helps us, which does not go along with a principle, but calls on the Republic to make an active commitment to remove all obstacles to the effective implementation of that principle. Removing obstacles: that's what we're talking about. Directive No 54 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for women and men in the field of employment and employment is very clear in determining, as has already been the case in previous anti-discrimination directives, the concept of indirect democracy, defined as a situation in which a provision, criterion or practice which appears to be neutral may put at a particular disadvantage persons of a particular sex, compared to persons of the other sex, unless that provision, criterion or practice is objectively justified by a legitimate aim and the means employed for achieving it are appropriate and necessary. Now, it is quite clear that the provisions, criteria and practices used for the composition of the electoral roll in Italy often lead to situations of particular disadvantage to the female component. In our social context, in Italian society, at work, for example, there is no doubt that there are serious differences in the treatment of women and men, but there is no doubt that, where women have the opportunity to show their value (I am thinking for example of professions or the same political scenario), they have undoubtedly shown that they do not have a certain inferior quality compared to men. Faced with this fact, Italy's 25th place as a percentage of women in the European Parliament, in the ranking of the countries of the Union (a miserable 23%, compared with the already non-gracifying 36% overall), is a shame without excuses for our country. It is not here, therefore, to create situations of privilege, let alone, as sometimes seems to emerge from some statement, to carry out acts of courtesy or cavalry. "There is nothing more unjust than making equal parts between unequals," wrote Don Lorenzo Milani half a century ago. There is no justice in not considering the fact that there may be differences in opportunities and therefore not considering these differences between opportunities as an obstacle to be eliminated. It is therefore a question of improving the policy which, firmly in the hands of men, has certainly not proved itself, and can only benefit from the strengthening of another gender perspective. The laws of our country today allow what happened a few days ago to Valentina to happen, caught in a terrible grip between laws made by majorities of men: Valentina, to whom the odious law n. 40 of 2004 denied the preimplantation diagnosis, despite the presence of a terrible genetic disease, forcing it to a therapeutic abortion to the fifth month of pregnancy; Valentina, to whom the aberrant practical management of Law No. 194 of 1978 denied the possibility of a doctor to assist her (because in Italy mostly gynecologists are conscientious objectors, also because if you are not conscientious objector you do not make career in Italian hospitals), forcing her to abortion alone, on the ground, in the bathroom of a hospital, a few kilometers from this Palace. A gender perspective, therefore, in the creation of laws is a fundamental element in producing laws capable of looking at the real life of people. The electoral rules that we give ourselves must prevent this from happening because of those unequal relationships of force that still characterize the relationship between genders in our country. This - it goes without saying - must also apply to national elections. When the electoral law for the renewal of Parliament arrives in the Senate, the introduction of elements of actual, real gender equality will have to be a necessary modification of the text approved by the House. A major ally of mine (I repeat it to myself because I find it difficult to convince myself of this strangeness), Senator Sacconi, yesterday was ironically pleased that today "all" - I quote his words - "even LGBT theorists speak only of males and females". I will not disappoint Senator Sacconi: today we are talking about gender balance, a concept that yesterday made my colleague Gasparri smile, but that is also a topic that concerns all those who care about the progress of our country in terms of freedom and rights. The issue of rights, in fact, is not about corporations, lobbying or interests, but it is a big issue of legal civilization and the democratic importance of a society. In this sense, women's rights are also my rights, because there is no full exercise of rights for anyone unless the rights and freedoms of all and of all are fully recognised. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aracri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u13	Mr President, frankly, the debate we are having in this House at other times would certainly have interested me. Given the situation of our Italy, in the light of the show made yesterday by the President of the Council, probably to the Italians, who were also evoked yesterday and who would have been asked if they had an interest in gender equality (it was recalled by a colleague that 67 percent replied that he has an interest in this speech), we should also ask if they prefer that those in the Senate (as long as there will be, because it seems that Renzi has a personal matter with the Senate and the senators, but we will see this separately) concentrate on this matter or try to understand, for example, in the matter of reducing the cost of work, where we go to find the resources, which to date seem to be smoky. Maybe we could go further on the issue of the discrepancy between the EUR 7 billion announced by your President-in-Office and the EUR 3 billion still mentioned by the spending review officer. I would like to understand, in terms of payments by public administrations to businesses, why the former Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance continues to speak of a certain amount while the current Government speaks of different figures. Of the two: if all this money has suddenly appeared, it means that the Monti and Letta Governments, which have always been supported by you, until yesterday they told us, not so much as the Italians, a series of lies. It would probably be more useful to discuss the real reforms, which we tried to launch in 2006, but against which a referendum was put in place by the same people who are talking about these reforms today. It would be useful to understand and understand that the operation and the simplification of the machine-state is important and direct to get our Italy out of the droughts of the crisis. Always with reference to reforms, it should be understood that a Senate - also on this today we are on the level of smokes - that today, at best, goes to do the duplication of the State-Regions Conference does not serve Italy and the Italians. How should we understand, always dealing with reforms, that, when it comes to the abolition of the Provinces, in reality, the attempt is to propose them in absolutely different terms, at higher costs, whatever your President-in-Office says, and as the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. Perhaps these are the issues on which we should be entertained, as well as the fact that, it is said, these covers will also be derived from a different taxation of financial incomes: when you go to Europe to say that the BOTs are out, I do not know if Europe will consent to this type of transaction. It is reasonable to think that, when this is announced, perhaps a mechanism is set in motion to resolve itself in a capital flight, which will eventually lead us to the taxation of the usual known, with perhaps an asset. And on this issue we must understand, for example, whether even the savings not made in BOT by the many families - I am referring to long-term savings - will be affected by this higher and different taxation. We should also have another subject: when you ask for an extraordinary contribution to gold pensions, because those who will take 2,500 euros, paid with contributions during their working life, fall into the golden pensions, I wonder if this pensioner is really cataloguable among the golden pensioners, expected to take 1,000 euros more than those that should be benefited and that are below 1,500 euros. Perhaps it would be appropriate, going to another area, to ask ourselves, given that the issue of democracy rightly arises, even talking about this proposal for a law, how is it possible in a democracy that a few hundred meters from here - I am referring to the Chamber rooms - for years is on track a sort of Big Brother who has been recording and recording the phone calls of all the parliamentarians. What does that mean? Who ordered it? However, we are here to talk about this measure. A measure on which, moreover, the government in office has never presented itself to the Commission, except yesterday afternoon, and essentially - as the rapporteur has told us - it has not provided any more technical insights. Given that we are not interested in the male-girl derby, I would like to point out once again an aspect that has emerged: our nation, without a great need for particular laws, has an average of 31 percent elected. I would point out that the European countries where this type of stakes have been introduced have, in fact, put in place an action that has then resolved negatively in terms of the election of female colleagues. Throughout Europe we see that, where there is a greater presence of elected persons, this happens not so much by virtue of laws, stakes, reserves, quotas (call them as you wish), but of a cultural process that, lively, exists in those parts, and probably the task of laws like this should be to facilitate these kinds of processes, not already to impose them. There is no problem, obviously on spaces - also here you have fun to call them as you want - so that the presence of women is repeated in the lists: what I find frankly non-drinking is the imposition, the obligatory preference. I have been taught that politics is a comparison and a search for consensus, and on this channel I obviously insert myself. Preferences of which, however, when we talk about other laws, everyone has the sacred terror, and we always take refuge in these de facto blocked lists, and, in this regard, the discourse could be long: I do not understand why the blocked list of thirty names is unconstitutional and instead that of six has become constitutional. Evidently in this country we make constitutionalities by weight. I should also like to conclude by pointing out that this issue is obviously not very much heard in Europe, given that it has been addressed in other terms and ways. It was clearly not particularly felt that, not later than the day before yesterday, a motion for a resolution which submitted this subject was rejected by the sender. So, probably the way should be to strike a healthy balance, in order to avoid, in fact, just one thing: a damage to women and colleagues who wish to engage in this electoral battle. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u14	Mr President, yesterday we had an absolutely unupbuilding day with regard to the House and this fundamental institution. In a basically semi-desired Chamber, a debate has developed which has seen a rare participation of senators. As one of these exceptions, I would like to make a few brief comments. I have listened very carefully to all the speeches, and I have to say that very few (I remember a couple of speeches by my fellow senators) rather than going on the substance of the important issues that were being discussed, have evoked, on the other hand, an element of impediment: we would even agree, it might be discussed, but there is the wall of the hundred and eighty days (a senator has precisely formulated this expression): the electoral mechanism is already in place for the appointment of the European elections and, therefore, the rules are not changing. One thing would have been if a first-name senator or senator had done it. It is often said in this House that it is all the fault of the past and the precedents, sometimes even by members of the 5 Star Movement, of which I often disagree. On one point, however, they are right: we were not there. However, I hear this from senators or former Members, who obviously do not remember that they themselves - I checked on Wikipedia to be sure - changed on February 20, 2009 - have indeed changed them! - the rules for elections to the European Parliament. And they changed them not compared to what Senator Gasparri said: that changing the rules could put in trouble those, and those, who are collecting the signatures (I belong to those and those who are doing it). Then, instead, there were punitive rules on the substance of the electoral appointment, introducing the barrier threshold for access. In haste and in fury and late, that Parliament approved those changes, with complications on the collection of signatures, for the number and for the procedures. A law was made for those who were already there and to ensure that, both politically and innovatingly, everything outside the Palace was not placed in a position to assert itself, or rather to determine, precisely, the obstacles not provided for by the previous legislator (the one that established universal suffrage for the election of the European Parliament). So, it really comes to me to say (and it is not demagogy), that there is amazement for so much hypocrisy, very masculine, yes, because this argument, precisely Pharisaic, expressed the few interventions of masculine gender. It is therefore proposed to introduce certain conditions, as far as the gender presence is concerned, in what has remained the only election to multiple preferences that our country can benefit from; and I remember that we have recently experienced a positive experience, for once we have seen something positive countertrend. I refer to the changes that have been made to the elections of the Municipal Councils, which have not determined what, but have made it possible to heal a scandal according to which in the Municipal Councils composed of sixty members - I mean the city I know most - the advisers were two or three whole large groups did not have the gender presence. At least I am honored to belong to a party that in Rome, being a party limited by force, elected four councillors, of which three are women. All in all, I have seen that out of forty-eight members, fifteen are elected. This number is still insufficient; however, a first sign has been determined in positive reversal of the trend compared to what we still see in the elective assemblies that have not experienced this possibility. We also think of the recent renewals of the Regional Councils in Basilicata and Sardinia: in Basilicata there is no presence of women, while in Sardinia there is a modest presence. 10:03 a.m. (Following CERVELLINI). So, if we really intend to make a non-hypocritical argument, but that goes to the heart of the issues, mainly those I have dealt with, the other question is: what are you afraid of? That's what you need to talk about. What are you afraid of? You are afraid to allow access to institutions to those outside the choir, to those who have no powerful lobby who can support these candidatures, even when you talk about access thresholds for national electoral law - which we will have time to talk about - within the moloch of governability. But you don't even have that excuse for Europeans. We must allow the citizens, women and men to express their free orientation to the fullest extent possible. Then it will be the citizens themselves, beyond the signatures, who will express support for those lists. And those lists, if they have votes, will be represented. I said that at the beginning, and so I want to conclude my speech: we have seen a presence and a non-presence of the double majority which weighs on this Parliament. One majority to govern and another, perhaps the opposite, for electoral and constitutional reforms, what keeps you packed, so much so that you are not able to decide what your orientation is. I have listened to excellent individual interventions that have expressed all their discomfort and discomfort with regard to these issues, but I would like to understand whether the authors of the speeches that I have heard and have greatly appreciated, several senators and very few if not null senators, will have the courage to turn their feelings into acts in the light of the sun, since here we are voting in a clear way. I am referring to a vote of support on amendments that speak clearly and reflect this spirit of participation, both to remove the hateful thresholds of representation in the European Parliament and to accept the most reasonable proposal to have, for example with regard to the macro-circulation of central Italy, a gender preference within the three preferences. Or is it to be expected that the President of the Council will consider whether it would be better to confiscate a majority in government by disgruntling the ally for electoral and constitutional reforms or vice versa? Last day, I listened to many speeches that referred to your civil and democratic conscience: well, here we have a good opportunity, in the light of the sun, to be consistent with these principles, which I agree with. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-PI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u15	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we deal with, under the significant title "Amendments to Law No 18 of 24 January 1979" to promote gender balance in political representation in elections to the European Parliament, states in the premise: The absence or marginal presence of women at the top of society is a constant in the history of our country that has always been relegated to embarrassing positions in the most authoritative international investigations. The Global gender gap index, the index on the gender gap drawn up annually by the World Economic Forum, in 2013 assigns Italy the seventh position, even after China, which turns out to be sixty-ninth. The obstacles to women's access to the top positions of society are of cultural origin, rooted in such a profound way that legislative measures are needed to introduce a change that can develop autonomously. After the measures introduced by Law No 120 of 12 July 2011, for the boards of public and private companies, the theme of gender rebalancing has recently found its way into the institutions, particularly in the composition of elected assemblies. This draft law introduces the so-called triple gender preference, i.e. if the voter decides to express more than one preference, the choice must include candidates of both kinds, or the annulment of the second and third preference. Moreover, in order for the elector to choose candidates of different genders to be effective and not only potential, in Article 12 of the aforementioned law a new paragraph is inserted by which the parties are obliged to submit lists in which neither of the two sexes is represented in a way greater than two thirds. In these days there has been so much talk and so much is heard speaking "improperly" and from several parts of pink quotas. Personally - and I know I'm not the only one - when I hear this terminology I even get goose bumps. Speaking of pink quotas, as has been said with different accents, mortifies the specific contribution that each of us, regardless of sex, can and must give in this function as representative of the institutions, as a response to the real, pressing and concrete needs of the country. In times when, above all, Italy continues to risk the economic collapse, in which the political system is continually put under attack by citizenship which should instead represent with honor and which should feel honorably represented - if the entire country system had sufficiently recovered the sense of the particular responsibilities and the honor of its role, and if the institutions had authoritatively regained the meaning of its function, being able to transmit it without any shadow to the country - sincerely, having to hear again of the need to reaffirm and state gender equality in the elective assemblies, sounds truly anachronistic and - in some ways - mortifying. And certainly not just for women. To intervene today creates me - I admit - a certain embarrassment because I have to argue the necessity and, more importantly, to have to present in 2014, a law that promotes the gender balance in the political representation in the elections for the European Parliament, confirms to me how much road we still have to go - all - in becoming aware and above all in recognizing that competence and merit have no sex and should not need to tie its exercise to the reserve of positions on the list, in representative, working and social bodies. It begins to become repetitive - in every circumstance in which this theme is addressed from whatever angle it is - to have to mingle figures and surveys and, however, the data are emblematic to provide the contours to a photograph that appears increasingly in black and white. And so, I do not subtract and bring to your attention what the last ISTAT report reports. It reveals that the female employment rate in Italy stands at 47.1% compared with 58.7% of the EU average. Women in our country continue to be paid less than men: their hourly compensation is 11.5 percent lower than men. Italy is one hundred and twenty-fourth in 136 countries with regard to the possibility for women to make a career. And yet, the capacity for resistance and defensive adaptation, but also of innovation, revival and change, are essential traits of the strategies put in place by women in the productive world. We live paradoxical times and places: we live in a society that must, guarantee, recognize and protect being a woman from society itself. Cultural and cross-cutting change must be initiated. Everyone's saying that now. In words. In fact, today we are debating a measure that provides for gender equality by law in expressing preferences. The Italian Parliament - in the past legislature - has approved the law 23 November 2012, n. 215, remembered by several colleagues, with which they have been introduced, in particular, in the elections for the Municipal Councils of the Municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants, both the double preference of gender and a list quota, according to which, in the lists of candidates, neither of the two sexes can be represented to an extent greater than two thirds. The same law, in Article 3, laid down for the Regional Councils the principle of the promotion of equality between men and women in access to elective positions through the preparation of measures to encourage the under-represented access of gender to elected posts. There is, we know, a strong anti-European feeling that risks transforming the next European elections into a time of high abstention. Anti-Europeanism, which is a symptom - among other things - of the malaise widespread throughout the European area not only because of the serious economic crisis, but also because of the inability of the institution to represent a real unity and political vision of the countries that are part of it. Well, if we treat gender balance in this bill today, then it is good to stress that, apart from any other consideration, with equality of merit and competence and without making it a flag of representation of sex, the specific element that women's representation can bring within the institutions and in any context that sees the person as such present and represented is without doubt a uniting and unifying factor, where, as in any other context, one can express one's own constitutive port that is outside the sexual gender. I hope that soon, very soon, we will no longer have to talk about gender equality, but this will be a fact. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for all the important work they have done. I would also like to point out that the adoption of the measure under discussion today does not represent an excess of rigidity, as some have said in this House; it is not even a concession (since it is a matter of women, of a kind concession), rather it is a condition for the institutions to organize themselves by means of rules to make equality democracy effective. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u17	I address a greeting to the students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) (Paola di Rosa) in Lonato del Garda, in the province of Brescia, who are visiting the Senate today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u18	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u19	Madam President, these days we are witnessing a surreal debate. Officially the subject is the amendment to the electoral law for the European elections. The aim is to promote gender balance which is not intended for the composition of lists or for the expression of preferences. Yet (as Senator Cervellini mentioned earlier), the law was amended in 2009 and we were not really in the so-called First Republic. In fact, it was a time when the debate on gender preference and balance was not really in its early days; there was already some elaboration and experience. And it was the same year that the barrier threshold was introduced on the basis of an all-Italian concept of democracy and representation; concepts that for some political forces are not absolute values to be defended regardless, but instruments to be modified according to the political opportunities of the moment. In this debate there is a stone banquet which is the barrier threshold set at 4%, to which very few speeches have, of course, made explicit reference. In many, I would say almost in all (even those of the colleagues of the Democratic Party Group who intervene for 20 minutes to obstruct themselves), we have heard broad support or denigration for gender preference without ever talking about the only real topic that is holding the discussion and majorities hostage these days: the barrier. The systems of the other countries from which we have borrowed, over time, our electoral systems for the National Parliament, are very different. There is a barrier threshold in France, but it is in a completely different political context. In Germany, in 2011 the German Constitutional Court declared the 5% barrier threshold unconstitutional and was lowered to 3%. A few weeks ago, the German Constitutional Court ruled that the 3% barrier threshold for the European elections to German parties is unconstitutional. Reason: The threshold violates the general principle of equality and equal opportunities at the polls. Our theme today. Germany aligns itself with the vast majority of European countries where there is no threshold. Therefore, the German parties will no longer be subject to any threshold of entry and in Germany we will vote with a very pure proportional system. For once we could follow the Germanic example instead of suffering only the economic diktats. Not only that: even in the homeland of the single-shift majority unitary system, Britain, there is no threshold for Europeans. Nor does it exist in Spain, a country from which we have taken great inspiration for the imported bill so-called ltalicum. In Greece the threshold has recently been lowered to 3%. Opening a debate on the barrier thresholds means discussing equality of the right to vote and equal opportunities of political parties, the dignity of politics. Therefore, the debate cannot be reduced and brought back - as we have often heard from the President-in-Office of the Council - to the mere survival of the small political parties, without which, I remember, there would not be such a strong majority in the House today of the Democratic Party, and in the future, with the new law, all major parties could have problems reaching it. I am not just talking about us on the Left Ecology and Freedom; I am also referring to the Democratic Centre, to the Civic Choice for Italy, to For Italy, to the autonomous parties such as the Sudtirolel Volkspartei, in some regions at the PSI and the North League. This is a large part of Parliament, a large representation of several million Italians. As we have noticed, with the Italicum and its barrier thresholds, on the basis of the first projections, there would be no representation of about 20 million Italians who, together with those of the non-vote, perhaps pose us some problem of democracy. It is a question of surviving an idea of democracy, the real one, in its original and truest spirit, the one for which the people are represented when they are elected. On the other hand, there is another tendency that permeates our political debate, a sort of low-intensity authoritarianism, in part useless and ineffective efficiencyism (I remember that the five years of Berlusconi government were not an example of efficiency, seen how it ended, despite the vast majority of the two chambers being overwhelming majority of the center-right). In this attitude, I see one of the causes of anti-European populism, which our whole Union is breathing. The fact of representing all political forces allows an institutional confrontation that facilitates democratic action, does not inhibit it. It is even more important at European level, at a time when even the government aims to redefine the parameters and above all - as the President-in-Office of the Council has said - it is trying to give a soul to the Union, in order to prevent it being just the representation of technocrats and not of citizens. The barrier therefore runs counter to the general principle of equality and is an obstacle to fair representation of citizens in the Strasbourg Parliament. For the European Parliament today pluralism is a wealth; there are no problems of governability or stability as in national governments, reasons used in our political debate, in recent years, by the usual cross-cutting majorities to include unconstitutional barriers, as has just happened with the approval of Italicum. In Italy, it is also clear that the introduction of the barrier thresholds in the European elections is used for reasons of internal competition between national parties, because they have nothing to see with democratic participation. The distorted debate of these two days is proving this: we are discussing electoral law for Europe in a way that is not transparent and we are taking time waiting to know what the government thinks about it or rather the President of the Council. It is clear that there is a real battle going on between the official majority, that of the large renewed agreements, and the unofficial majority, that of the agreements with Berlusconi and Verdini. These two elements would suffice to understand how the lowering of the threshold is a reversal of the trend necessary precisely for the good of democracy and transparency of our country. I believe that a reversal is also crucial for the big parties in the future. We will not allow this debate to be done by sacrificing the introduction of gender preference, just as we will not use equal opportunities to talk about unfair and anti-institutional barriers. In the debate on gender balance and gender preference, we understood that we are retracing what we saw a few days ago in the House of Deputies. Either way, this is a bad example for the country. After years in which the Italian Parliament was at the last posts for the percentage of women elected, the last elections instead marked a significant reversal of the trend (in the Senate, we women are about 30%). Out of 59 countries that held the European elections in 2011, 17 have introduced laws that impose gender quotas. Therefore, the tendency to promote gender rebalancing in representation through legislative interventions is gradually being extended. In Europe this trend is very widespread, but we obviously do not want to go on this in Europe. Italian women elected to the European Parliament are 18 out of 73 Members, representing 25%, a much lower percentage than 34.6 percent elected in all 28 countries. Italy ranks 22nd in the standings, worse than only Poland, the Czech Republic and Malta, while Sweden and Finland have elected more women than men. In Sweden, gender equality has been achieved in politics through the assumption of responsibilities by the parties, which have foreseen it and have introduced active policies that enable women to participate in public affairs and establish themselves in the world of work. We are still far, geographically and culturally, from the excellences that should be our polar star. This too requires symbolic actions: that of the third necessarily gender preference is a fundamental element, but it is only the first step and it seems to me that opposing this rule would be a real absurdity: I find it hard to believe that this could lead to problems in defining the elect. For this case, it would be enough to force the parties to make proposals for high-level candidatures for both men and women. A well-known Italian newspaper, just these days, has made an online survey asking what readers thought about the demand for equal representation in the institutions and has spoken of pink quotas, perhaps forgetting or underestimating that equality of representation affects everyone, men and women, so we are not talking about the pink quotas. Equality in representation means identifying criteria, because where these are not there, we have seen bad results and the examples in Italy already mentioned here, from Basilicata to Sardinia to almost all Italian regions, I think are very obvious. The questions raised in the above-mentioned online survey show that women face poor skills and administrative skills, which are obviously taken for granted in men. We are faced not only with the rhetoric of merit and the stereotype of women promoted to an institutional role only on the indication of the head stick. My generation, which is well represented in this House, owes a great deal to all the women and men who, from the post-war period to the 1970s, fought important battles for the rights and freedoms of all and all. We are the generation that grew up in the 1980s, we took everything for granted, we wanted to remove the past of civil, social commitment and we allowed the slow wearing of memory for those rights and freedoms to the point that we women - I have listened to it and I listen to it in this House too - consider equal opportunities as a healing or as a privilege and talk about pink quotas for my generation has a negative meaning. However, today we also have a great responsibility as well as a debt to young people and our children, who risk becoming addicted to the society of moral and cultural decadence. I therefore believe that the Italian Parliament has a great task: it must raise the cultural debate and recognise gender equality as the protection of the rights of all, because there is no election in Parliament at stake, but the quality of democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u21	Madam President, we have been holding a debate since yesterday on gender balance in representation for the European elections. Yesterday there was a passionate, competent debate, which had an important sign of accompaniment: the disappointment at the failure of the debate and the result that we had in the House a few days ago about the events of the electoral law. The failure which certainly does not concern those Members and those Members, representatives of an important political cross-cutting nature, who have committed themselves and committed themselves so that that outcome could have a different outcome. In the adoption of this bill, which concerns the gender balance in the lists for the European elections, we cannot but take the opportunity to remedy what has happened and to implement a debate or a fight that has been defined here, in some intervention, as skirmishes between boys and girls. This language is really bad, frankly, in this House. At least on language we think that it has been a long time and that there have been many opportunities to take possession of a fair and respectful language of the battle, that not only women, me women and men of this country carry on to assert the right gender representation. This is not, in fact, a battle between men and women but is, simply and finally, the implementation in our country of fundamental constitutional principles, which are constantly recalled, but which everyone then declines according to his own conveniences. The battle of women and men in this country is alive and has long been accompanied by debates, reflections, elaborations and demonstrations, which give the dimension that perhaps within this House there is a different perception of the true reality of the country. Some have said that, in the face of such a difficult situation in our country's economy, let alone the citizens and citizens who experience the difficulty of everyday life may be interested in a question of gender representation within the national and European parliamentary classrooms. If we make these considerations in this House, we really are painfully marking the deep distance and the relationship between some of us and the real reality of our country. Outside of this there are millions of women who are passionate about the battles for rights, the daily practice of political membership and who would like to make available their skills, their passion, their competence and contribute, in this way, to doing better and more for their country. To all these women I believe they have a duty to give an answer. Colleagues and colleagues, it does not go back ten years to what happened in our country. Three years ago, some women's associations brought more than a million people to the streets; women and men who shared a thought, a cultural and political platform that called for the right representation of women in so-called institutions and places of power. From there and from here, in fact, we can promote, having different views on many issues that concern the life of our country, from the management of the economy, to the organization of services, the point of view of women, which is a true wealth for the country. It has produced, in the Italian political and cultural battles, reforms on fundamental rights that have marked the history of our country and the role that women play today within the institutions. It has been repeated by many colleagues and colleagues what it meant, for example, to have provided for the possibility, in local authorities, of double gender preference by means of a law. I can speak, but only because it is the institution that is closest to me, of what happened in the city of Rome and in the 15 municipalities of the city of Rome: a presence of women who, at least twenty years ago, no longer saw within the City of Rome, a presence in the Councils of the Municipalities of Rome that unfortunately we had not known for too long now. All this has meant the responsibility, also on the part of the presidents of the municipalities and the mayor of Rome, to correspond with an equally adequate representation of women within the Councils of the City of Rome and the Municipalities. It is therefore not a question of the commitment of these somewhat subversive women who, however, almost in the run-up to the European elections, by missing strategies and agreements that could have taken place, decide that, by chance, there should also be gender representation in these three preferences for the European elections. We are not subversive (or perhaps yes: we are subversive when we choose the path of the affirmation of women's rights, which are the rights enshrined in the Constitution). In this House, in yesterday's debate, these constitutional principles have been recalled, I must say, by everyone, and have declined them to the most appropriate use that could have served at that time in relation to the debate and in relation to their speech. I believe that this is a principle of equality of representation: more than half of the population of our country is represented by women, and the places of institutional representation must necessarily reflect this fact, by constitutional principle, also because the view of women can bring within the institutions, in the parliamentary and institutional debate, their demands. This has been enshrined in constitutional principles, and we must respond to this. We are so many years late, and it is not a cultural delay: outside this House there are many women who want to participate in the political life of our country. We see them engaged in the most important battles for the rights of families, for the rights of young people, for the wider civil rights. It's them in the front row. And why should they not have word and presence within those institutions where the change of a country is really decided? I hope that the opportunity will not be missed, again this time, to show that this House, in its male and female representation, can follow a fundamental principle and right of women. This, beyond the instrumental polemics and a more utilitarian vision of the law than what the law really means for our country. I hope that this will be the first sign to show that we want to respond to this principle and to change the direction within this House compared to the vulnus that was decided a few days ago in the House. I am convinced that not only women in this House, but also so many men, will not miss this opportunity. I would not like to continue to represent the idea that, after all, if this rule is not voted and does not collect the consent of all is because this is the true representation of the country. It's not like that: we don't hide behind this finger. The country is far ahead of us: the country asks us to offer, whenever there is an opportunity, the true representation of expectations, feelings, and the rights that Italian women want to see affirmed. I therefore hope that this law will be adopted with the consent of all in this House. The women and men of our country look at us and judge us for this answer of law and civilization that they wait for, hoping that finally it can have a different outcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u22	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in a very complex debate, I would not like to speak further on the subject of why it is necessary, but not as a protective quota, to rebalance gender representation, because the speeches made by those who preceded me, especially Mrs Lo Moro's report, have explained the reasons for it abundantly. I would like to make a slightly more general and principled picture, which perhaps underlies or precedes the matter to our examination, but basically it is its substance: I am referring to the fundamental distinction that has been made also to the House, but which must be resumed and reiterated (also because we will have to resume that speech, and therefore take advantage of it, facing it already in this Chamber compared to the European elections), between pink quotas, equal quotas and representation quotas (which we are dealing with here). Why don't you call them pink odds? I have been thinking a lot about it, because I am particularly wary of the pink quotas, and I would even say against it, although I would not want my attitude to appear sloppy, feminist or intellectual. I had a lot of distrust and I was also perplexed about the pink odds. But really, if you work on it, coming out of the ideological schemes too (unfortunately on these issues the ideology has not died for nothing, and it is the sign that these issues are dealt with in a fairly old way) and freeing us from such encrustations, we see that it is not a matter of pink quotas, and the thing convinces me. Why are you opposed to the pink quotas and not to such a solution (on which there can be compromises: this is my personal position, and not of the Group)? Because the classically understood pink quotas are based on a great misunderstanding, i.e. on how the difference is understood (today it is defined as gender, more properly, once it was said difference between men and women). The difference between the sexes is ontological, not so much cultural and historical, as we often support. Then it becomes so, because - as Simone de Beauvoir taught us - women become, but also men. It's not brute, animalistic. There are obviously changes in the interpretation of how the differences between the sexes decline in a historical phase and in a society, but the fundamental difference remains ontological: one is born males and one is born females. If this remains the great, real discriminating in this regard, then it is not fair to entrust to protective quotas a reality, such as that of the female gender, which is not a species to be protected, because it is, simply, of course, half of humanity, not only quantitatively, as we have said for decades: it is precisely so. The common humanism, which should be more and more shared (then I will explain why I say this) is made of a feminine and a masculine humanism: they are two different, very different, approaches in a common sharing of humanism and humanity, which today - as I will say later - has profoundly changed and requires, therefore, a new, renewed covenant between the sexes. This is the theoretical point from which to start. The differences are there, they are not only cultural (I am very critical of the trivialization of gender culture), but for this reason they require recognition. Finding the natural roots of these differences is not a reason for the thesis that women must return to values relegated to a cultural specificity (which could be that of private, or motherhood, or the only dimension of oikos, that is, domesticity). This reasoning is complicated, but not so much. We have to start with two specific differences. Women must not be protected like pandas, but precisely because of an acknowledgment that is their responsibility, by nature, because they are one of the two parts of humanity itself. I, who am suspicious, because I believe very much in the merit (and when in democracy and representation the two are married, that's fine), I do not think this reasoning has anything to do with women. In fact, we have heard it from many colleagues: who can deny that there are men who have no merit and represent nothing, who go only behind capibaston? It is clear that this is a presumptuous speech. In fact, it is our social maturity that shows us this. Many even claim that women are superior, stronger, more capable. I don't get to say this: I say they're different. Since the affirmation of this diversity has cost so much, and also because of natural qualities, which pertain to this specificity to which I referred earlier, women probably have even more quality, in their relationship, in combining different plans (the private plan and the care with the public one), in ensuring the effectiveness of the results: there are thousands of arguments, of which we are now also saturated. However, I would not be able to say that man today is not worth anything, it is only the woman: on the contrary, I am very concerned by this, so to speak, superiority; but I am even more concerned - and in my opinion the feminicide also has this origin - when these objective qualities and abilities of the woman are unknown. Here is the point of the importance of gender representation quotas, and not in the protection of the panda (it is a speech that was no longer true even in the 1980s). That is precisely why I, who oppose this kind of solution, am deeply grateful to the friends and colleagues who led this battle, to whom we associate. However, we must also take a step forward, not only in terms of recognition, and therefore of the parliamentary and political battle, but precisely as a fundamental cultural and moral conviction. I was therefore saying no to the pink quotas, but support for equal quotas. We have heard in these days of struggles in the House that they are equal quotas for democracy. I mean democracy in the sense that I said before, because democracy is another thing that changes in history, it does not stand still. So, if you refer to democracy, it is said that that idea of democracy is over. In fact, even in the news of these months, today we are talking about a profound change in the idea of democracy, decision, relationship between parties and institutions: parties collapse, secretaries change, governments change. Democracy is not a Moloch who is there. We are going to change fundamental principles of the Constitution; of course, it would be better to do so with thought and reasoning, but they change. Therefore, it is not to this the reference, but to what I said before, that is to say to a given civilization, of which democracy is one of the pieces, and in that change the recognition of equality is not a protective fact: it is a fact that pertains to that nature there. Therefore, before democracy as an abstract concept, this strong demand (I do not like the terms as a struggle, so warlike), on which we must commit ourselves with conviction, not only for gender rhetoric, must be linked to the best tradition (I am happy to speak with my colleague Lo Moro, because he knows much more about it than I do): I repeat, in our so determined request we must refer to the best tradition of our legal culture on equality and women. It seems to me that we have a somewhat schizophrenic history on this subject: the right to vote has been granted to women very late, after the war, much later than all the civil countries; we had the crime of honor until 1975, a crazy thing. We talk about feminicide (so I insist with my friends and colleagues), but the phenomenon of feminicide in Italy is different from that of Sweden. In 1975 there was still the crime of honor: if one killed a woman there was a justification, so it was quantified how many times he had betrayed himself, who cheated. If we go to read it again now (it happened to me to deepen the legal question about another deadline that will see us engaged, that is, civil unions), we find that we have a very backward legislation on this issue and, together (for this I am talking about schizophrenia), of the very interesting and very advanced legislative achievements, more advanced than many other European countries. I am thinking of family law (even the late one), because of the evolution it has had in terms of assets, in terms of symbolic recognition and not only; I am thinking of the struggle of conquest of pregnancy interruption and divorce: labored laws, fought, but they have found very mature solutions. True, there is the problem of conscientious objection, but Law No. 194 of 1978 could still be a model of consensus in Europe, on a subject that could not be more conflicting than this, because abortion is not an extra quota, an additional number, a list protection; abortion is comparable only to prostitution, because it is impossible to be eradicated in history by law. It will never be; it has to do with life and death, it is absolutely the most divisive theme that there can be. We found a solution that was not only a compromise, because it put together not - as we say today - a cross-cutting consensus banally, but precisely the deep cultures of this country. Cultures that in those years had a coincidence also with political culture: the Catholic culture, which is fundamental in our country compared to the Nordic countries (where they are mainly Protestant), and the culture of the left, as was the communist culture, even with so much criticized of compromises all only political, but which alluded also to a meeting of great sensitivity, which found - as they say badly - a relapse, however a solution of high legal sense common. This common sensitivity has cracked. Not now, it is cracked on Law No. 40 of 2004, it is cracked when a forced referendum was held, when they all made mistakes even then: those who supported the non-negotiable values as clava to be thrown at huge issues, that was not abortion, but the modification of reproductive techniques, that again changed the role of women very much (as was the case for the birth control methods in the seventies, when the conquests I said before were realized) and that opened a completely new horizon that is what we find ourselves in now, that is, the possibility of intervening and manipulating the beginning and the end of life, that is, interventions that change precisely anthropology, and are of anthropological turning points, and are not an invention of some fundamentalist Catholic, are true. They are true, but they have found fundamentalist answers and extreme solutions, and they have affected that style, posture and attitude that our legal system and our living together (because this was) had found since the post-war period to the present day. I repeat: with a schizophrenia that has seen back forms, but also very advanced. What has always happened in those years, which, in my opinion, are the breaking of this climate so positive that we should find again? What was that? In addition to this ethical bipolarism of inactivity between Catholics and lay people, there was a great risk and danger, which always occurs when a profound moral and cultural fabric fails: political exploitation at levels that are bleak of these themes (ethical values, relations between the sexes and great choices of civilization). I am not digressing: what we are discussing here is about this issue. Well, there was a haggling: I give you this, you guarantee me a covenant from there; I refuse you a certain kind of insemination. We arrived at this point. On Law No. 40, a merchanting of female eggs (one yes and two no) was consumed by people who didn't even know what he was talking about. These are shameful things, to which, whoever has a minimum of moral sense, whatever side he belongs, must rethink. We don't have to go down to this level yet. What does that mean? What does it mean not to exploit in a disgusting sense, only of power, politicalistic and only of places, these great choices of civilization? It means - then - that these values of civilization are at stake here, and not just an idea of democracy that can pass. So what do I say? It's in that painting that the thing needs to be redesigned. How do you do all this if women aren't here? How do you if women are out just growling? How do you do it if you reproduce a pattern, again, of conflictuality as regressive as it is between the sexes? If the confrontation is of this magnitude, of civilization in this sense (common values and common coexistence), we must not miss the opportunity of a confrontation and of rethinking a pact between the sexes. As ours would have said in other times, the confrontation so deep is between the forces of good and evil. I remember something that doesn't seem to have anything to do with it, but it has a lot to do with my reasoning. You will all remember, a few weeks ago, that 15-year-old blonde of Bollate who was beating, in that terrifying way and under the eyes, passive but involved, of her peers (in this there is the oxymoron), a brunette girl, like her, dressed like her and like our teenagers (our children pre or post teenagers, 15 as of 18 years old). The set was terrifying. I've seen it several times because I didn't believe it; I thought it was fake. In fact, the following week they made a video game: they reproduced it for the fluidity of the movement, the aggressiveness and the voyeuristic aspect of violence, which has always attracted man (belonging to human nature), so smug and so disgusting, because made between two girls who quarreled the prey of the male (so, with a reversal of what is the symbolic tradition of the relationship between the sexes). Well, this has become a video game. I was incredibly embarrassed. That's why I thought I'd seen the scene before: I've already seen it in my son's video games. I told him, do you see these things? It is all this: the pleasure of the mobility of violence. The same day I read this thing, there was another article on the other page of the paper. A subject under discussion, little said and little seen, passed to law: the euthanasia of minors in Belgium. The same day, on another page in the paper. What does this have to do with women's shares? I don't reconnect these connections, but it has a lot to do with it. What we have before us is not an apocalyptic discourse ('where are we going to end up? There is no religion anymore, but it is a specific discourse. Let's think about feminicide: we have talked about it even too much, so much to become almost addicted, as always happens (when you talk too much about these things, you get used to them). However, these are issues which allude to an enormous gravity of the relationship and relationship between the sexes, within generations and between generations. So what does all this mean? Politics must interpret at least minimally (but we hope more and more) what is really in society, not what we say in here. I've been in here for much less time than the 40 years I've been out, and I tell you that we really struggle to make ourselves understand the things that matter, that of course are the economic ones, that of course is the economic crisis, but the crisis - believe me - lies in the root of a moral end that requires a common covenant, not only between men and women. The principles of a new coexistence must be discussed again. So, I'm telling you, it's not a claim and it's not a union request, because women aren't a corporate piece, but they're the other half of the human. I therefore ask you to rethink this level of reasoning, which seems so abstract, but it is of crazy concreteness. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u25	Madam President, I would like to start with the Constitution, Article 51, which, in relation to what we are dealing with today, reads as follows: All citizens of one or the other sex may have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law. To this end, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men with appropriate measures. This article in the Constitution - perhaps some have studied it - was the subject of an interpretation given by the Constitutional Court in 1995. It was a judgment that forced and prompted the legislators to amend Article 51 by constitutional law No. 1 of 2003, which precisely introduced that part relating to positive actions, that is to say, to promote appropriate measures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. The question, which has been raised for so many years, is well known as regards the possibility of introducing legal measures aimed at bringing the conditions of men and women closer together. The most important objection was the fact that confidential quotas did not, according to the Court, guarantee equality of starting points, but rather the allocation of a result, i.e. the election of a certain number of women. It was precisely the Court that introduced a constitutional coverage for the positive actions taken by the State and the territorial authorities. From that moment it was possible for the ordinary legislator to determine favorable measures, not only anti-discrimination, but also positive ones. We must therefore distinguish ‐ still today in our debate it is very clear this dualism, this alternative, which then is not ‐ between measures aimed at promoting women, attributing special and different advantages, and measures that can be defined as anti-discrimination, i.e. aimed only at guaranteeing equal conditions for both sexes, i.e. equality of starting points. So we cannot confuse the so-called anti-discrimination measures with the positive measures in the debate. It is in this perspective that we have not only started a debate for many years, but this Parliament (and not only it), with more measures, has adopted rules aimed at achieving positive policies to eliminate all forms of inequality from the point of view of opportunities even among genders. Among the many national and local regulations, I mention some of them of particular importance, including Law 215 of 23 November 2012, which introduced measures to promote the rebalancing of gender representation in local administrations for the election of municipal councils. In these days many of us are engaged in helping party colleagues and party bodies to define the list for the elections of municipal councils, and so we are aware that they are called to apply for the first time, or at least not for a long time, the law according to which in municipalities with a population of more than 5,000 inhabitants a double measure is to be envisaged: the so-called list quota, for which in the lists of candidates neither of the two sexes can be represented to a greater extent than two thirds (otherwise, in municipalities with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants, the failure to respect the quota can cause the decline of the list), and the double preference of gender, that is the possibility for the elector to express two preferences instead of one, provided that in the case of candidates of different sex, penalty for the annulment of the second preference. Moreover, in the municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants is also expected - and it is very important - that the mayor and the president of the Province appoint a Junta in compliance with the principle of equal opportunity between women and men, guaranteeing the presence of both sexes, and that the municipal and provincial statutes lay down rules to ensure, and not only promote (the change of verb, as it is intuitable, is not lacking in meaning), the presence of both sexes in the non-elective councils and collegial bodies of the City and the Province, as well as of the bodies, institutions and companies dependent on them. So let us start from this fact: we already have elective legislation, as far as small municipalities are concerned and not only that, which commits us to achieving a substantial equality of opportunity also in the exercise of political office. Then there are the examination of our House of draft laws aimed at introducing an organic discipline of political parties that provides for a rebalancing of gender representation within the governing bodies of the party. Some, for example, require a two-thirds limit in the representation of each gender. As the debate for the very recent approval of the House of the reform of the electoral law is very topical, I would like to remind you that for many years all positions and opinions aimed at promoting the presence and gender balance in the institutions have been discussed. Some proposals provide for the obligation to respect a proportion between the sexes, others intervene on the order of succession of applications, others provide for sanctions in the event of non-application of the provisions on equality. These proposals have been represented by amendments on which, as is well known, much has been discussed in the other branch of Parliament these days. It will then be up to us in the coming days and weeks to resume these issues at the second reading stage at the Senate of the bill of electoral reform. I would also like to point out, since the issue of equal access is not limited to the institutional bodies alone, what has been done by Parliament in previous years, and in particular during the last parliamentary term, which has seen a strong commitment, a strong parliamentary initiative and concrete acts that I would like to mention here. I am thinking, for example, of the approval of Law No 120 of 2011, which includes measures on equal access to the administrative and control bodies of listed companies on regulated markets. This law is aimed at overcoming the low presence of women in the administrative bodies of commercial companies, in particular on the boards of directors, and of companies listed on the stock exchange. There is a double track for which, for companies not controlled by the public administration, gender balance is defined on time. The provisions, always with regard to access to the bodies of listed companies, are also applicable to publicly controlled companies and, in particular, it is expected that the division of directors to be elected will be carried out on the basis of a criterion that ensures the balance between genders, having to obtain at least one third of the elected directors. There is another subject on which Parliament has been very committed in the last parliamentary term: equality in employment and employment. Legislative Decree No 5 of 25 January 2010 transposed the European Union Directive which reunited and replaced a number of previous acts in the field of equal opportunities, acting with corrections to the Code of Equal Opportunities and stating that these measures were intended to eliminate any discrimination based on sex which could compromise or impede the recognition, enjoyment and exercise of human rights, fundamental freedoms in the social, political, economic, cultural, civil and other fields. The legislative decree in question also provides for equal treatment and opportunities for women and men to be guaranteed in all areas, including employment, work and pay, as well as in the formulation and implementation of regulations, administrative acts and laws, but also of ordinary administrative policies and activities. In this legislative decree the definition of discrimination is also extended, with reference to any less favourable treatment suffered due to the state of pregnancy, motherhood or paternity, as well as as as a result of the refusal of acts of harassment. The ban on all forms of discrimination is also extended to the professions. There are also further amendments to the Code concerning the prohibition of discrimination as regards pension treatment, the possibility for collective agreements to provide guidelines and good practices for the prevention of forms of discrimination, such as harassment and sexual harassment. Finally, Legislative Decree No. 5 of 2010 intervenes in the matter of the protection and support of motherhood and paternity, prohibiting all forms of discrimination with particular regard to any less favourable treatment for the state of pregnancy, as well as maternity and paternity, even in the case of adoption. I have mentioned, perhaps a little boring colleagues, all these rules, starting with Article 51 of the Constitution, because I believe that the debate these days, which is summarized in Article 1 (c) of the text proposed by the Commission in relation to the rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament to Italy, is important. I believe that these quotations have enabled those who have listened to me to understand the growing commitment that Parliament and the legislator, including through constitutional changes, have made to ensure a level playing field for access, particularly (but not only) to institutional positions. This leads me to a simple and modest conclusion: that we must, also in this field, in particular, from the outset, with the bill now before us, have the courage that this branch of Parliament has demonstrated on many occasions, in order to reaffirm the principle of equal opportunities between women and men that the Constitution so well wanted to sanction. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u27	Madam President, we are fully aware of the need to reflect on a very topical, very debated issue which has become particularly important in recent years in the study of the electoral subject and its implications: the problem of gender balance in political representation and, in particular, in elected assemblies, in this case in elections to the European Parliament. The best way to demonstrate the relevance of the problem of gender representation is to remember the data. A little less than one in five MEPs is a woman, and the situation is present in the Regional Councils and also in the number of Italian elected Members in the European Parliament. More generally, however, it should be stressed that on everyday political issues, even on issues that directly affect women, it is often almost exclusively men who debate and decide. This raises the question of gender-based political representation, to which many issues have to be addressed. Of all, the neutral nature of the principle of political representation. The objection based on the idea of political representation as a general, detached from membership of any category can be overcome if women are considered not as a category, but as a gender, i.e. by stressing that each individual is a man or a woman regardless of any other characteristic. After the theoretical objection, the question arises as to the reasons for a greater balance in representation. The simplest answer is that of justice: it does not seem acceptable that politics is a male monopoly and that women therefore have a marginal role in politics and institutions. Then there are further arguments. Among these, it is very significant that the absence of women has a negative impact on the quality of the representative. In an assembly made up mainly of men there is a risk of taking decisions that are sometimes poorly thought out. It is well known that unbalanced bodies in gender representation, in addition to highlighting a deficit in democratic representation of the articulated composition of the social fabric and the electoral corps, are also potentially lacking in functionality, because they lack the collaborative contribution of the non-adapted gender. It should be noted that the gender balance, in addition to being linked to the principle of substantial equality, is a further functional dimension, taking place within the framework of the implementing instruments of the principles set out in Article 97 of the Constitution, where the balanced participation of men and women (with different patrimony of humanity, sensitivity, with the cultural and professional approach that characterizes the two genres) in the decision-making and operational mechanisms of executive or summit bodies becomes a new instrument for guaranteeing, functionality, greater productivity, optimal pursuit of objectives and transparency and impartiality of political action. At a time like this, when the crisis of the political class appears strong and when the gap between it and civil society seems increasingly widening, a profound renewal and a reversal of trend could also pass from the increase in the presence of women in the representative institutions and assemblies (in this case, the European Parliament). Having identified the problem, on which general issues and principles we cannot fail to agree, it should be noted that in Italy it was the legislator who intervened with provisions aimed at rebalancing gender representation, at various levels of institutional fora, including the European Union. In this regard, it is essential to confront - as has been said several times because the iter of Italian legislation on the subject has been recalled, making a strong reference to the Italian Constitution - with the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence in this matter, in order to reason on the consequences that can be drawn from this jurisprudence on the limits that the legislator encounters in intervening. As you know, in accordance with Article 51 of the Constitution, all citizens of one or the other sex - excuse me if I am repetitive, because I know that this has often been recalled, but it is a cornerstone of the argument - can access public offices and elected offices under equal conditions, according to the requirements laid down by law. To this end, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men with appropriate measures. A significant consultative contribution shows the need to distinguish between anti-discrimination rules and positive actions. Firstly, it is necessary to distinguish between measures and rules aimed at promoting women, giving special and different advantages, from anti-discrimination measures and rules, aimed solely at ensuring equal conditions for both sexes, i.e. equality of starting points. It follows that a neutrally formulated law, with the aim of allowing equal access to the conditions necessary for the election to be possible for men and women, and so that one in the same way as the other can actually enjoy the political right to the passive electorate, should not be confused with the measures of favour, that is, with positive actions. In short, some firm points can be drawn from constitutional jurisprudence. From these it seems that the legislator, at the various institutional levels (both European and national and regional), cannot introduce rules aimed directly at assigning a result in favour of the under-represented kind that affects the electoral competition. The statement, clearly repeated in all the judgments of the Court, is the main constant of constitutional jurisprudence. Secondly, it appears that the legislator cannot alter the equality of chance between candidates in the electoral competition and therefore the equal chance of being elected. It also seems that it can intervene to bind the parties in the presentation of the lists, i.e. at a time when the electoral competition has not yet begun; finally, it can provide anti-discrimination provisions, i.e. to ensure a minimum presence of people of both genders on the lists, provided that they are formulated in a neutral manner. What the Constitutional Court has not been able to specify is how far regulatory intervention can go in identifying the minimum and maximum proportion of persons of the same sex within the lists. In fact, reflecting on the constitutional conformity of the laws that we are going to discuss becomes decisive even in a subsequent electoral dispute. It is clear that, where such provisions are provided for, any contestation of the electoral outcome will essentially concern the assessment of the constitutional legitimacy of the disciplines. As has been repeated on several occasions by these benches, with regard to this legislative initiative, our concerns stem from those which, for many of the Members of this House, can represent slogans or phrases made (I have noticed that it has often been repeated), namely that the rules do not change to games begun, as if for someone it were a pretext. In fact, we are giving substance to this subject and I urge all of us to think about it well, because we are only seventy days away from the European elections and many of us, many political groups and many parties, have already organized and activated themselves, on the one hand, for the collection of signatures and, on the other, for the synthesis and aggregation of signatures. Although we have been repeatedly reminded of the precedent of 2004, where only sixty days before the elections the legislation has been changed by introducing a law in this regard, it becomes difficult to think about this rule, which in my opinion deserves a greater deepening and a more heartfelt debate. I really wanted to list the reasons that lead me to think that it is absolutely necessary to speak and introduce the subject in a more reasoned way, but it is clear that under these conditions there is little attention and there is much unpredictability. We have the feeling that the introduction of this subject has been at least hasty. As this is a serious issue, which we absolutely want to discuss in this House, we are practically doing exercises to anticipate the debate that we will have to deal with in a week or ten days at most and which has already been carried out, reasoned and stressed by the media and colleagues in the House. It is clear that this is an anticipation of that debate, even if it refers to a different institutional level, the European level, where this is also different from what we are going to discuss. In fact, in Italicum there is talk of blocked lists while in the electoral law for Europeans we have preferences, so there is already the possibility for the elector to make a more precise choice than the Italicum - which instead does not provide preferences - that we will propose and with which we of the NCD Group, as we know, absolutely do not agree and in tune. Therefore, we need to think about what is happening in Europe, where we want to be careful to avoid this discrimination. The Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force in 1997, already provides for the prohibition of all forms of discrimination in Article 13. This ban has been implemented in various ways by all the nations that are part of the European Community. In France, for example, there was a sort of cultural revolution which led, through the drive of the movements of women engaged in politics (even on different sides), to the dual and democratic principle based on both sexes. In reality, however, the best legislation, the one that many have indicated as the most advanced example in Europe, is probably the Spanish one, where an organic law, finally adopted, addresses the issue of equality between men and women in the whole field, that is, from the point of view of work, the family, civil rights and also political representation. Therefore, in the political field, the law amends the electoral code and introduces the principle of balanced presence. The electoral lists of parties are then required to have a minimum of 40% and a maximum of 60% of candidates of both sexes in all types of ballots. Other provisions are also laid down concerning the order of candidates on the lists. In fact, quotas are compulsory for every five seats; lists that do not comply with these constraints will not be approved by the provincial electoral commissions, but a short period is given to the parties to correct them. This is what happens in Spain. In conclusion, therefore, Madam President, from the data collected on the subject under study it seems now widely felt this need to harmonize the electoral legislation for the European elections in Italy, providing in different levels of representation, homogeneous instruments, suitable to recover the historical gap between the elected of the two sexes and to reverse the principles outlined above. Too bad we thought about it at the end of the election, because we had a lot of time. In our opinion, it is now too late. We therefore propose that this draft law should return to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in order to be re-discussed and more in-depth. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u28	We greet the students of the Technical Institute for Geometries (Moses Bianchi) in Monza, who are visiting the Senate. All right, here we go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u29	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on this act, which I have also signed, because I think it is advisable to leave some considerations to the proceedings of our Senate, although much of the words we have heard so far have been repeated in substance. It is clear, in fact, that there is a will among all of us to come to a positive conclusion and, therefore, there is a will to give time to debate and reflection, so that, beyond words, we then obtain some de facto positivity in the acts that are approved. I must say that I also think it is right to recognise the elements that other Members have brought about here, namely the fact that we are talking about women, but that there is also a stone banquet, the 4% threshold, which is a non-secondary banquet, on which we should all make an even deeper act of reflection when it comes to representation and democracy. I would particularly like to thank Senator Lo Moro for the work she has done as rapporteur and also for giving a number of indications yesterday of the times that have also been called into question here, as regards the fact that this act has come so late to the debate in this House. Among other things, I would like to stress that many draft laws presented by senators do not arrive in this House, and that already seems to me to be a lack of democracy. Senator Lo Moro said that this act came to the Commission and was approved only in January and that, therefore, with the start of the new Government, we arrive in the Chamber in a very short time, obviously because these are the time to do so. However, if there is a political will to resolve the problem, even if the elections are on 25 May, there is still time for the lists and then there is time to accept all those demands that are indicated by the act itself: both the stone guest of the threshold and the issue of gender representation. As far as the part I think I have to deal with today is concerned, I will, however, stick to the issue of gender representation in particular and I want to start with myself, I want to do as it used to be, also because I recognise here among the people who are in this Chamber precisely Senator Lo Moro, Senator Valentini, Senator Pezzopane, with whom we have worked together for many years on these issues of gender representation (perhaps even for too many years, in fact, sometimes we do not intervene anymore not because we do not think these instances are fundamental, but precisely because we have spent a lot of our institutional life discussing gender representation bringing home poor results when not null). I therefore start from myself, starting from the conference "When the State is a woman," the first conference of women directors in the organization of the State in 1988. I am talking about twenty-six years ago, about an issue now historicized, so much so that it is found among the publications of UET, in the context of the history of women. I am, of course, proud of this, since it was an initiative that I personally managed as an administrator of my municipality, which for the first time had actually put together women of the local administrations at every level, precisely to try to give us a voice and to understand how we could increase our representation, because only by working in the places of the decision could we then take forward the issues that men and women needed the most. I believe that this battle in large part has been lost, because it would be wrong to recognize only the elements of positivity, when so much energy has been spent. I must say that in my long institutional history that goes through a long period within the Regional Councils, as elected with the unique preference in the Regional Council of the Marches, where I was first and only woman to chair the Regional Council, with which function I then coordinated the Regional Councils of Italy and then the commissions for the reform of the statutes and electoral laws of the Italian Regions, I have always tried to be able to reason because also in the regional statutes there was a space for women in the Regional Councils, where the only preference was sickley in the presence. It is no coincidence that in the regional councils with the only preference there are very few women; almost nothing is the presence in some regions of Italy, but also in regions like Lazio it seems to me that few are women. So, you don't just have to look at the South. When you go to the single preference, when you go, not only to the choice of the candidate, but also to have to bear the cost of the election campaign (and therefore with the need to refer to lobbying, support groups and the possibility of direct feedback), it is not so easy for women to be there. This is why we have dedicated so many years of our lives to looking for forms and ways, together with the women and constitutionalists who dealt with these areas of intervention, at the level of the Constitutional Charter, in order to propose different electoral models and achieve a better result for our country: a result that, despite the approval of the constitutional change repeatedly recalled to this day we have not brought home and that however only some political components have somehow achieved, approaching a goal still far away. Someone here remembered the need for support for our democracy. In fact, I think that our democracy has not been going on in recent years, but if anything it has fallen behind, in terms of gender equality, social guarantees and also respect for rights and perhaps even the same fundamental value as the elements of democracy. I am thinking of respect for the institutions and the Constitutional Charter, as voted and confirmed by the Constitutional referendum of 2006. I repeat this in this House, because there will not be many occasions when we can so clearly express the memory of a referendum not so far away, but seven to eight years ago, where 63% of Italians decided that the Constitutional Charter should be maintained, that devolution should not be applied, that presidentialism was not for our country and that perfect bicameralism was instead a guarantee of democracy: perfect bicameralism that we want to overcome today. In conclusion, of the vote on electoral reform in the House (here too a certain vulnus for gender representation has been determined) I was struck by the intervention that our Parent Company made in the House (I speak of the Democratic Party), my colleague Hope, because I found some discrasia there. In fact, Mr Hope, in general discussion, has said that we must put in place a profound constitutional reflection that involves the overcoming of the Senate and therefore an important simplification, simplification of which we will obviously discuss, certainly not starting from the salaries of the senators, because I believe that this is reductive and offensive for our House and for our democracy. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena]] I also found it quite strange that, while on the one hand this need for overcoming, renewing and enhancing, and therefore a new model of a democratic state, it was thought that this high chamber of ours, on the other hand, was useful to correct what was problematically approved in the electoral law. About one o'clock: either the Senate is used to correct the errors of the House or the Senate is not needed and then it can be closed. Perhaps we will need a more careful reflection. It is true that everyday words are also used to take time, as we do today, but if we were a little more coherent perhaps the citizens would also understand us more. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena]] I return to the themes of representation: more women in the institutions, a battle - I repeat - not won, despite we have achieved substantial changes and in any case a greater presence, for example in this last election in the two Chambers, both in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies. An increased presence that will risk losing, if there is no attention in the writing of the new electoral system, and which would certainly be useful also in the European Parliament. Very significant issues are being decided and discussed in the European Parliament: I am thinking about the issues of animal testing and I am thinking about all the issues that guarantee the protection of rights. I am also thinking of the issues that we will still have to deal with here, for example, in relation to negationism. There are many issues, therefore, that come from the European Parliament, where a different sensitivity, more articulated, of gender, could offer a greater attention, that above all is not within the framework of our country. In Italy there are few women elected, as was mentioned: only 18 out of 73. It is clear, therefore, that if, at the end of this long debate, we succeed in achieving a further step forward and, beyond words, in arriving at the facts, obtaining an approval of this law, I do not believe that - as my colleague last spoke - further deepening is necessary. By means of deepening, democracy does not advance but lags behind. In fact, to refer this act back to the Commission (because the deepening only so can be understood, otherwise I don't know what it means) can only represent a further defeat of the place of institutional decision, House or Senate. Therefore, an equal democracy is still far away, because the democratization of the family is still far away and there is still the conviction - as we have found in the secret vote in the House - that when one has to choose whether a man or a woman should go to a place, it is clearly the prevailing number of representation that decides who should be there. That's not new. Teresa said. Noce that a place is not asked, it occupies; I always thought, in my life, that this maximum was positive, but it takes a not secondary force to be able to apply it. I hope that young women, who are numerous in the institutions today, will have the strength that others have been able to represent; that there is no need to be there regardless of the strength rooted in the territories; that there is no need to be there just because they are anchored to political personalities of greater weight and of different sex; that there is, therefore, a personal recognition and, perhaps, of network together with that of other women, that recognizability that some of us have had and that often, then, has seen us silent precisely because continuing to speak on these issues without bringing home feedback is not always easy. Today is the occasion, for this reason we take the floor. Let us hope that we do not waste the opportunity of the debate, but that it will not be empty: do not think that, after spending two days discussing achievements, roles, genders, value and the weight of women in the institutions, then, when we have to talk about something else, all this becomes only an instrumental element. Let us not ask ourselves otherwise to intervene: it is better to keep quiet, for the sake of personal dignity and also of what remains of our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u31	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u32	Madam President, the draft law we are debating is, as the title says, intended to promote gender balance in political representation in elections to the European Parliament. Unfortunately, however, its path is made difficult by the fact that other instances have arisen and modifications have been proposed with other aims, of which I do not discuss at this time the merit, but which have nothing to do with this promotion. The risk that we are, in a very clear way, running is that a political market will open up on these issues that can only harm the original and founding purpose of our bill. We are referring to the rules that we are discussing very often as a pink quota. I'm not. This issue has already been mentioned, but those who intervene afterwards must also refer to interventions that have been made before. They are not quotas for two important reasons. First of all, because they do not refer in any way to an election result. What we are discussing are rules that affect the formation, admission of electoral lists and the way in which the vote is expressed. I am therefore absolutely in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is something that needs to be emphasized, not only with reference to the draft law that we are debating today, but also, of course, to the debate that has opened up, in a very similar way with regard to the guiding principles, on the electoral law relating to the national Parliament. They are not even pink quotas for another important reason, which is even more in line with the constitutional dictation, that is not only with the decisions of the Constitutional Court but precisely with the Constitution: the famous - it has been mentioned in the five or six interventions that preceded me - Article 51, which, in providing conditions of equality for access to elected positions for persons of both sexes, emphasizes in particular that this aim must be pursued, that is, that the Republic must promote with specific measures equal opportunities between women and men. It is therefore unconstitutional to remain inert with respect to this solicitation; it is constitutional to try to follow you. We are talking about a problem of equal opportunities. That is the point we must bear in mind. If we talk about equal opportunities, the way in which we achieve the result of gender rebalancing is not indifferent, they are a constituent part of equal opportunities; the result of greater participation of women in public life, of a gender rebalancing in representation, is marked in its value by the way it is pursued. I would like to give two examples: a first example concerns an important result that we have achieved with a greater presence of women, for example, in the Council of Ministers and in the Councils of Ministers. When this is the result of the conviction of individuals it is an important fact, but it is not the recognition of a right, it is not the objective overcoming of discrimination, because it is not a result that depends on the acquisition of a different social norm in the collective consciousness, so it is important but not enough. They are results for which women have to thank someone, and that is not how equal opportunities are pursued. Blocked lists are another example. Yesterday, Senator Gasparri reminded us that blocked lists allowed women to be present who are supposed not to get it otherwise. So women must be grateful, they are there by grace received, by courtesy of someone, of a leader, who happens to be generally a man. So these modes are foreign to our culture, to our thinking, to our principles and have nothing to do with equal opportunities, even when the result - and I stress this - is positive. On the other hand, it takes methods that certify, that equal opportunities also take place with a force introduced through a norm. The rule is important; the norm is an act that takes charge of the high role of politics; the norm has the function to direct, anticipate changes, not to sanction or chase them when they have already established themselves or - worse still - to hinder them, as sometimes happens. Equal opportunities surpass discrimination: if we need equal opportunities policies, it means that there are no equal opportunities; if equal opportunities are a real objective of policy, they should also be real, visible, well-known instruments for achieving them. As an example, instead, normally enshrined in a regulation, therefore not by law, which has given a very positive result, I am pleased to mention the forecast of gender alternation in the lists introduced by the Democratic Party's Statute, because it has actually contributed a great deal to forming a Parliament, the one in which we find ourselves, which is the most balanced from the point of view of gender in the history of the Republic; this for me is a reason for pride. If this decision taken by the Democratic Party or, in other forms, by other political formations, the law is added several times that, through the mechanism of gender preferences, has intervened heavily in the election of the Municipal Councils, we have a visible and very positive result that has also been recorded by an indicator of interest of international importance, on which I will return, namely the Global gender gap index. The latter in 2013 placed us in 44th place, out of 136 countries (so not very high in the ranking, but nevertheless encouraging), with regard to political empowerment, i.e. participation in the political process, while we are only in 71st place with regard to all the factors that are considered, on which - I repeat - I will return. This increased presence and participation of women in the political decision-making bodies (such as, in particular, Parliament) has absolutely positive effects for the community as a whole, which are visible in the eyes of all. There are various studies which show, as is well known, that there is a fruitful link between the proportion of women in Parliament and the protection and protection of women's rights. However, it is not only about women's rights, but also about the rights of other people who are discriminated against, such as LGBT people, because sensitivity to a type of discrimination that everyone lives on their own skin makes more sensitive and attentive to the protection of the rights and non-discrimination of other people and subjects as well. We have already had a great deal of evidence of the importance of a higher proportion of women in this Parliament, precisely in view of the issues that have been addressed by this Parliament. It has already been mentioned, but I would also like to recall it because it is a fundamental issue, which our Parliament unanimously approved the Istanbul Convention, making our country a leading country at international level in the attention on this issue and this is largely attributable to the active role developed by women. The way in which Parliament has dealt with violence against women is another key element. There has been a government initiative, but the law against violence against women has been greatly enriched by parliamentary debate. It is a fundamental law from the point of view of equal opportunities, because it has radically altered the philosophy with which this topic was addressed and has led (not only for the norms that it introduced in our order, but also for the process that it triggered in terms of public confrontation and political acts that will have to follow) to the maturation of a different awareness and that before this law was not there. I am referring to the awareness that violence against women first of all questions men, who are those who exercise it (and exercise it in the field of affective relations). We are talking about violence against women, not as an element that comes from strangers, foreigners and unpredictable people, but that unfortunately takes place, in the vast majority of cases, within the domestic walls. At the same time, the novelty of this law - which, I repeat, is the result of a choral work done by women within Parliament and the Government and by women outside Parliament and the Government - is to forcefully bring the issue of prevention into the norms (how much can affect this very serious phenomenon affecting women's education and stereotypes and how important it is instead to radically modify the educational process leading to the formation of identity), as well as the processes of taking charge and accompanying to ensure women who want to get out of a situation of violence, to be able to regain their lives and autonomy. Another very positive element, made possible by the stronger participation of women in Parliament, was visible in the last battle waged in the House with regard to precisely the issue we are debating today with reference to European law (the House did so with reference to the law on national Parliament): I am referring to an element of sharing and mobilization of a cross-cutting type. This is a fundamental point. Rights and equal opportunities are not an issue that can be done by a party, they are not a party flag, but they must be a flag of the community as a whole. Women of all political formations that have mobilized to support the theme of equal participation have given a strong and fundamental signal of how these issues should be addressed, not only the one relating to this specific and very important right. It has been lost for now - we hope the Senate can reverse this course - because the logic that prevailed was not only a male logic, but it was precisely a logic of party positioning. This is wrong. These issues must be kept out of these logics; let us also consider today that we are talking about this law. Let us not mix this theme with other legitimate and very important themes [[Applause from the PD Group]] , like that of the thresholds and others that we will have to deal with as far as national electoral law is concerned. I was saying - and I stressed this point, which I want to take up strongly - that the law we are discussing is a law of equal opportunities. So I like to question myself rhetorically: do we need equal opportunities in our country? I will just quote a few figures. As you know, if you put yourself in good shape, you can quote a lot of data. I will remind you of the results and the elements, especially from the qualitative point of view, but, before doing this, I would also like to remind you of some quantitative figures, which impressed me very much. We need equal opportunities first of all because we are a country in which the stereotypes that severely hinder female empowerment are still deeply rooted. ISTAT recently, thanks to funding from the Department for Equal Opportunities, carried out an analysis on this issue; the results were presented a few months ago. There are some things that I would like to stress about this survey of ISTAT, which struck me very much. In our country, in 2014, still almost 50 percent of the respondents, who are a representative sample of the entire community (so 50 percent of Italians), believe that the role of bread hunter - as was once said - in the family should be entrusted to man. Only half of Italians are opposed to the claim that, in a crisis situation, men should be given priority in the workplace rather than women. It seems to go back to the Middle Ages, but it is, in 2014. 49.7 percent of Italians, which means virtually 50%, feel that men are less fit to deal with household chores. I see you're smiling, and it's right to smile, but that also makes you cry a lot. I would like to resume these stereotypes: men procacciatori of the bread; men must be given priority and priority in the search for work (according to half of the Italians). What then is the result of these stereotypes so rooted, of this culture that we have not yet succeeded and succeeded - because I hope to have alongside, in these considerations, many men - to break down? It is, as far as the index on the gender gap I mentioned earlier, that we are seventy-one in 136, but we are eighty-nineth, almost nineteenth, in terms of women's participation in the labour market. In fact, we have not only a very low rate of female employment, but - given even more worryingly - we have a very high rate, of about 50%, of women's inactivity: women not only do not have the job, but they are not even in a position to look for it. So it's not just stereotype, it's also reality. It is for another reason. You smiled when I said that almost 50 percent of Italians think that men are less suited to dealing with household chores: well, we know that in fact both, domestic work and care work, that is, the care of children, the elderly, the weakest people, for example those with serious disabilities, in couples with children falls for about three quarters on women's shoulders. It is a fact that is changed with an impressive slowness: if we go forward with this step the rebalancing will take centuries and centuries. And it is convenient to believe that this depends on a natural fact, on being less suitable for dealing with very difficult household chores such as washing dishes with a dishwasher. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This has a lot to do with what we are saying today, first of all because we have policies that for years and years, with a nice male connotation, have neglected the circumstance that care - the care of children, the elderly, the disabled and even the domestic care - is not a private fact but is a public fact, which requires public policies because without the care activity no community can go on: banally, as an economist I would say: it does not reproduce. And so it's a very public theme. I have said that this issue is very important for the subject we are dealing with today because it is inevitable that the difficulties involved in participating in the labour market, rooted in the problem of care, will also lead to a difficulty in participating in public life. Already it is very difficult for women to reconcile the double life, that of work away from home and that of work at home: let alone the triple life, which also requires participation. So there is not that process of participation in collective life in all dimensions, not only in politics, which is the gymnasium in which you train to be known and to become competent to face even parliamentary political activity. The data tell us that care work is a fundamental obstacle to participation: it is precisely women who carry out care activities who have the greatest difficulty in participating in the labour market, who interrupt work and are unable to participate. I see I have to get to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u33	Yeah, you should finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u34	Mr Warra (PD). Then I say only two things quickly. Do you need forcing to reverse these trends? Yes, they serve the forcings, and they are important, and we have seen it not only with the law on boards of directors and union colleges, but also with the precedents of forcing precisely in terms of pink quotas, with the law that in the years 1993-1995 imposed the gender quotas in the local elections, which gave visible results, and it is important that in the municipalities in which they were applied there was a positive and persistent effect over time, even once the obligation has failed. I am therefore in favour of forcing, which must also be used only temporarily to change these social norms which impose traditional roles on women and to balance the imbalance between the presence of women and men in the Italian political system. I would like to end by saying that yes, I am in favour of forcing, that they serve, and I hope they are only transitional, because my basic thought is: blessed is the country that does not need quotas, that does not need equal opportunities policies! Unfortunately, this is not the case with our country yet. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the debate we are holding is the sign or one of the signs of the crisis in the Italian political system, one of the signs of the crisis in democracy at a substantial level in political processes. The question of preference for women certainly has an older story, but at the moment it is unfortunately timely in the more general question of the right of access to the passive electorate. It is the theme posed by the blocked lists of the "Porcellum"; it is the theme posed by a political system that has been characterized because it is in the hands of very few the choice of parliamentarians, with the distortion of the same electoral system. I would like to remind you that in previous electoral rounds, with the system of double or triple nominations, we have had more than 300 Members elected to give up. This is like saying that the vote of the Italians has been further upset because the powers of the secretariats have also been accentuated in this key. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, this issue was overcome in the last electoral round through the mechanism of the primaries; a sign of internal democracy and not a sign of democracy in the broad sense. In fact, the primaries remain a limited mechanism and do not reassure this full access to the right of the passive electorate. The passive electorate, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right, must be read in the light of Article 3 of the Constitution and, therefore, with a view to substantial equality, i.e. the creation of conditions of equal access to opportunity. It is in this key that today's reflection and the issue that is at Parliament's attention today must be developed. I would like to add another consideration. If we take the issue of gender preference, we take a further issue which also shows us what the backwardness of our political system is in another way. The sacrosanct need to guarantee a preference for women is a sign of another element of mischief in a political system in which opportunities are not equal, in which the selection between the two genders is not objectively equal and is therefore regulated. It is clear that this is a vulnus to the democratic system and it is clear that this is a problem that should be overcome with the agreement of all. It is clear that it should be a problem which should not lead to the situation in this House, with such a long general debate, in the face of a very delicate situation in terms of convergence on this principle. If we were not at this stage so delicate and problematic of our democracy and if the vision and the need for an open and plural democracy really prevailed and the need for competition in the government of the country, in the parliamentary assemblies, indiscriminately of men and women, the best resources present in our Italy and willing to live the parliamentary experience, if we were in this situation I believe we would have no obstacles and resistance to this measure. To have resistance to this measure has only explanations of a political type, that is, of a political type, of particular interests (unfortunately, prevailing) within parties, of egoisms that have nothing to do with national interest, with the interest in the redevelopment of public life, an issue of which (not only in these classrooms) in political debates is filled with the mouth but on which then, when it comes to taking concrete measures, no one is really concerned about dealing with. Understanding the reasons for the introduction of a gender preference in the European elections system (pure proportional system or system with three preferences) is - at least to me - absolutely impossible. It can only be understood in the logic, as well as in the egoisms of part, of the deviant mechanisms of the systems of preferences, that is, in the need to protect the cordades, to protect the cordades that may already have been created, not to disturb the internal balances of the parties. In this key, I believe the violation of the Constitution in its articles and in its spirit which would be perpetrated in this House if gender preference were not introduced. It may seem a strong statement, but it is a statement that I am absolutely convinced at political level for the reading that I have of the political function, of the relationship between politics and democracy, of the need that really to the political function can hope to gain access to anyone who has those minimum requirements that certainly do not include membership of one sex instead of another. The resistance on this subject today unfortunately still seems to bring it back to that point. We also saw this in the recent debate on Italian electoral law in the House of Deputies. I really would not want us to fall into the contradiction of not voting on gender preference and instead vote on the restoration of the pink quota in Italian electoral law! I believe that it would be more than appropriate to reflect on this, because everyone rightly expects from the Senate, when the draft electoral law is passed, to reconsider certain points, but above all on this. How can we fail to understand the strong reasons for introducing gender preference? Why not think, for once, that objective data can prevail, giving to some extent a different sign of approach to issues such as electoral and constitutional issues? Even today, after yesterday's very important visit to the Chamber of Deputies, we are witnessing, in terms of electoral issues, an approach that starts from the electoral percentages given by the polls and on this we want to parameter the electoral law. That is not what the Secretary of the Democratic Party wanted; that is what others wanted. I believe that, in this respect, the result achieved and the fundamental step achieved are very important; in my opinion, however, it is necessary for a real, free debate to be opened on certain fundamental issues, with a view to issuing an electoral law that has fully the characteristics that the Constitutional Court has indicated, that must characterize this political phase or rather the political phase that will be represented by the next elections in our country. In those elections, citizenship will want full freedom of choice; if, therefore, full freedom of choice is given in the already guaranteed context of a system that will give the absolute majority to the party that will get the best result, I believe that we will really be able to return to participation and to a first element of reunion and rapprochement between politics and citizens. In this logic, I believe that today's reasoning on European electoral law must also be fully incorporated. We all know that unfortunately the European elections are among the least heard by the electorate, because they are considered as elections involving a distant Parliament that has no direct impact on the lives of Italian citizens. Unfortunately, this vision is not correct. Unfortunately, this is the result of a situation in which Europe is all too often seen only as a 3% Europe and its many other political, economic and defence-related benefits are not highlighted. Adding the gender element is not only a measure of recognition of women's rights, but it is also a measure of rebalancing the electoral system itself which, in my opinion, will allow greater attention to be paid to the European elections, because it will make the female electorate more convinced to look at the vote and the opportunities for choice, because it will see in the recognition of gender preference the opportunity to give a more balanced representation between men and women. Although there may be scepticism, it is a significant and strong signal, because the sensibility of the female electorate on this point is absolutely marked and I believe that this sensitivity must be respected and must find a response that is - I want to say it in conclusion - in the sign of universal rights, of the Constitution and of the Democratic Party's own vision; it is not a surrender to movements or to public opinion, but it is indeed a sign of coherence. An attempt to build a political system that rebalances, improves the previous ones and has those premises of approach, of openness to access to public offices that are really indispensable for the system to become more adequate than at the moment, the political demand and the needs of the Italian political system [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, greet the students and teachers of the institute including the state school "Ragazzi d'Europa" in Casalnuovo di Napoli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u38	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have been listening to this debate and, to tell the truth, I have listened very carefully to the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, who has presented the measure with a great deal of detail, except, of course, for the details which I think are of absolute importance. You see, Senator Lo Moro, you are certainly an experienced and long-term parliamentarians, you have a very important professional experience, so you can say that you are a legal person; however, dear Senator Lo Moro, I must tell you that a small detail of your reasoning and speech has not convinced us at all. The particular thing that has not convinced us is that the rules can never be changed, especially the electoral rules, when the game has already started. There is no game in which you can do this. Since it is right to make those Italians (the few Italians, to tell the truth) understand that they have the time and the desire to listen to a debate of this kind (which, to tell the truth, seems surreal to me and then I will explain the reason), let's imagine a football match in which, at the fifth, sixth or tenth minute of the 90 minutes attributed (except the extra time) to a regular game, a measure of the Italian Football Federation or, worse still, a unilateral decision of the referee to change the rules of the game. That game wouldn't be good. We all know that the day of the European elections is already fixed on 25 May. We all know that you start collecting signatures, or that you can collect signatures, from the one hundred and eighty-eighth day before election day. And we all also have confidence that in some districts this collection of signatures has basically begun and that there are already composite lists. 12:31 a.m. (Follows MARINELLO). It would be enough for this matter to finally close a debate, without even discussing the substance of the matter, because you know that on these issues the method and form are in themselves a substance. You know, Senator Lo Moro, how valuable these elements are. You know how many judgments, beyond merit, are cancelled precisely because of lack of method and lack of respect for forms. Forms that, in this case, represent substance. I could finish my speech by fully signing up to some of the speeches that we heard in this House last night. I could, for example, take as a model the intervention, indeed masterful, of my esteemed colleague Compagna who yesterday, with a wise miscellanea between doctrine, parliamentary political experience, historical references and - why not? - even with a lot of Neapolitan verve, he well explained the matter. But I want to take advantage of the minutes at my disposal to make a few brief comments. In the meantime, I would like to make a few comments on the substance of the matter. We all know how an electoral system, in itself, is an instrument, but we all know that this instrument is not, in Europe in particular, a consolidated element and does not have a fixed rule. I have checked and, indeed, in some Member States (such as France, Germany, Greece, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom) voters can in no way alter the list order of candidates. Basically, that is, the election of Members of the European Parliament is being carried out by means of blocked lists. In other countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden) it is possible to change the order of presentation of the list by giving preference votes. In another country, in Luxembourg, it is even possible to vote for candidates from different lists. In Sweden, even more so, it is possible to add additional names to the list presented: in fact, all eligible citizens are citizens who have a right to the active and passive electorate, even if not submitted, not candidates from any party. Even in other countries, such as Ireland, Malta and Northern Ireland, which have its own specific features, the election is not by means of a list voting mechanism, but by means of a second-degree mechanism by political forces and by parties. This gives us the confidence that this is what we want to see here today as a major issue of political life (I have heard of constitutional dictation, principles and values) in Europe and has absolutely different facets. And just to decompress the tones that some colleagues or political groups have used here, I want to add some other considerations. Meanwhile, I remember that the mechanism that provides for a rigid alternation of gender-women to guarantee quotas already in fact in our country does not represent a novelty: it was the first draft of the Mattarellum, that, to understand us, became law in 1993 that predicted it; that electoral system with which Italy confronted itself in the political elections of 1994, except then later, a year later, in 1995, see the Constitutional Court intervene with the judgment n. 422, which in fact cassava that norm contesting precisely the system of rigid and compulsory constraint. I am sorry that this element, which was not very important in detail, did not emerge during the debate, or perhaps someone mentioned it but superficially, supporting the absolutely bizarre argument that judgment No 422 of 1995 did not or could not have any value today because on the matter, however, the amendment of Article 51 of the Constitution had intervened. This is an absolutely bizarre argument, because Article 51 of the Constitution aims to achieve substantially equal access to the elective possibility, not absolutely a requirement that lists blocked with gender alternation or obligatory in the case of multiple preferences of the vote with gender difference, therefore with obligatory man-woman vote want to predict. These arguments, therefore, are, in my opinion, well-founded, but there are many others which I think should affect not only politics but also the common sense of things. In the last 72 hours I will have met a hundred people: ordinary people, workers, workers, people who are outside those who are called "Palazzi", from the bartender to the doorman of the hotel, the freelancer, the entrepreneur, the unemployed, the socially useful worker of the school who today lives in an eternal uncertainty. Well, among the hundreds of people I have met, no one has put at the heart of what we are debating in this House today. The truth is that we still do not realize how the breakdown between politics and the needs of the real country sometimes depends not on a dark evil or a cynical and baroque destiny, but depends exclusively on our devilish raging over issues that do not affront the common life of Italians and Italians. It is almost as if the main themes of our country were not unemployment, the economic crisis, the fact that millions of Italians live below the poverty line, as if the cost of work, the cost of energy, the burden of bureaucracy, the malfunctioning of justice, all factors that seriously affect the life and well-being of our country, were other issues, not of interest, to keep out of this House, while we keep busy in this House, we take up hours and hours of work of the Commission and of plenary work to talk about issues that, in my opinion, for citizens and for the most part represent issues of little interest, abstruse issues, therefore issues that should find space at many other times. I believe that, when the citizens are called to vote, on 25 May, what will interest them and must interest the institutions is that the main right of the citizen to vote free, an unconditioned vote, a vote entrusted to the free awareness of the elector and his intelligence: to that ability, intelligent, rational and mature, which the Italian elector has and has always had since 1948. The rules that we want to introduce into the system and, among other things, to game already begun and violating the rules of the game, represent surreptitious attempts that have nothing to do with the lives of citizens and with the needs of families and do not even have to do with the protection of rights, because what interests is freedom of vote and the right to freedom of vote. We entrust to the free choice and intelligence of citizens the ability to choose and choose whether to vote one list instead of another, whether to indicate a candidate or perhaps to indicate two or three, beyond this gender issue, which is a matter from the Palace that strengthens the separation between citizens and the one that is perceived outside these rooms as a caste. And then, lively God, if you want, you can introduce another norm, which is that of which some colleague has spoken, introducing the theme of the stringed and the perversion of the vote in the system to multipreferences that the corded sometimes make possible; that is - but not now, in the game begun - a norm absolutely common sense that is that of the monopreference. We would not invent a rule, however, because it is a rule that citizens wanted when, in a strong and determined manner, they went to the polls a beautiful and sunny Sunday in June, instead of going to the sea, disobeying some political leaders, who had not understood the way to which the country was going: in fact, on that sunny Sunday in June they went to vote en masse. Let's go towards a single preference system and let the maturity of our voters and Italians do it. Italians know what to do, they don't need teachers and teachers, they don't need those who demand their authentic speeches of references to constitutional rights, constitutional rights that are not these: the main right is to get out of poverty, the main right is to find a job; the main right is to an education that is free and guaranteed and that represents yes the exaltation of the free determination of citizens; the constitutional right is the right to health; the constitutional right is that to free enterprise in this country, free enterprise that still suffers from a thousand conditionings and a thousand lacerations; the constitutional right is to conceive a State that sees the citizen at the centre of attention and instead an oppressive bureaucratic system that always tends to stifle individual freedoms, subjective freedoms and sometimes even collective ones. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us avoid continuing to talk to each other, opening our hearts and minds to the real needs of the country. Only by doing so can we return to talking to the citizens, rather than closing ourselves in this Palace and in these reasonings that I believe are increasingly afferring to a caste far away, distinct and distant from the needs and feelings of the citizens and of our people. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u40	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u41	Mr President, too many times these days have been used the inappropriate expression "pink quotas" with reference to the important battle waged by many women and men to introduce what we like to call, more rightly, a fair gender representation in the electoral law. Even today, the debate is present and lively in this House. This is a wrong term, which wants to trivialise the debate, and ghettoizing, always used improperly by those who work for the maintenance of discrimination and inequality. We strongly reaffirm that we in no way want to claim thresholds or quotas for women. The question, in fact, is not limited to a quantitative measure of representation, but it invests the concrete possibility for one of the members of society to affect the decision-making processes and to make policies bringing the reality of the country to Parliament, to finally change the priorities of political action; starting from giving priority to the work of women and young people, to the revival of the social value of motherhood and of policies of innovation, that lead to the sharing of care work, proceeding towards a reform of welfare, that render it to the measure of women and men. This is why it is a priority to go in the direction of an equal democracy, based on the contribution of women and men, which does not renounce any of the genres and which is made strong by the full collaboration between different energies and competences and, at the same time, complementary. Even for many of us it is viscerally difficult to talk about quotas. A lot of us don't love them. They seem to be the denial of our deepest essence. They tell us, with a pinch of contempt, that quotas are for those who can't and for those who prefer to ask for help rather than tighten their teeth. We know that this is not the case, that we can do it ourselves, but that is not the point. I think there must be a sense of urgency in all of us: not in all of us, but in all of us. We can't wait. We need to reset a system in which women, who have been the best graduates for years, fall to 13.7 percent in the places of power. How can we believe this is a case? How can we think it's natural? All this reminds me of when, years ago, statisticians noticed that less girls were born in China and began to say that it was not possible. Someone raised his shoulders by declaring: "It will be nature." No, it wasn't nature: they killed her, it was selective abortion. Is this a distortion again? We can't let nature do that. If you don't believe anything but numbers, look at those: women are over 50 percent of graduates and far less than 15 percent hold positions of leadership. Do you want us to believe that women's intelligence begins to decay dramatically beyond the age of twenty-five? Does pregnancy cause brain damage? Do we want to work less? Ten years ago I would never have dreamed of supporting the so-called pink quotas (those that many love to call pink quotas): I would have opposed it, even by getting angry. Today I continue to think so, but the situation of serious gender inequality that afflicts the country makes me think that they are a temporary step necessary to grow. Pink pieces, two words that do not convince: "quote", because no one likes to be locked up in a percentage of gender; "pink", because it recalls a traditional idea of how girls must show up to the world. The real problem is that without a system of binding quotas the presence of women at the top of societies does not grow, and the Norwegian case, which has been schooled in Europe, demonstrates this. A soft dosage of incentives does not shake a closed company; a blocked system does not let itself be reformed with soft strategies. A mandatory roof instead produces an immediate leap: it is a temporary remedy, a bridge thrown to overcome historical asymmetries of presence and power, to which one can give up as soon as the two sides re-align. You can't play an au pair game if one of the two teams isn't able to deploy all its men and women on the field and no country can afford to waste 50 percent of its talents. Pink quotas are good for politics and, as far as I am concerned, it is no longer a wish; two female teachers say that they have proved it. Increasing the number of candidates increases the quality of the elected, women and men: this is the thesis demonstrated for the first time. Insert the ladies by force, because the law demands it, does not lower the quality and is not unmerited. Law No 81 of 25 March 1993 stipulated that no gender could represent more than two thirds of the total candidates on municipal lists; the law was then abolished in 1995 because it was declared unconstitutional. Some municipalities went to the vote with the application of the law and it was possible to make a study and a comparison between the two groups of municipalities, with and without quotas. The measurement has proved to be in favour of quotas and women; their presence does not worsen, on the contrary, improves the quality of candidates, which is measured by the years of education and also the type of employment they had before the assignment. 8,100 municipalities were considered, and not only were the women included more educated than fellow men, but to make room for female candidates had remained out the less qualified males, and so improved the average level of the entire political class. The quality of politicians is crucial for the growth of a country and the quality with women increases. In short, the issue of quotas as anti-meritocrats has been strongly rejected, as well as appearing to be a very singular fact in a country like ours where women are now more educated than men and women's talents abound. This argument did not convince before, and now it convinces even less. Quotas are an instrument which can be instrumental in achieving equality between men and women. Some people tell us that quotas are against the principle of equal opportunities for all, because women would benefit. I say: to say that women would benefit from quotas means not to take into account the social disadvantages arising mainly from the sexual division of labour and the historical and traditional distribution of the public sphere and the private sphere among the sexes, which in fact prevented women from occupying the positions of power that would have been theirs. The others say: quotas are not democratic because it is the voters who have to decide who will be elected. I say: a voter can never choose who is not on the electoral lists, who is not a candidate, and in our democracies the parties are the monopolizers of the electoral lists. They say: the quotas mean that the sex intervenes instead of the competences and, so, some of the most competent candidates are discarded. I say: the subject of competences emerges mysteriously only when we talk about quotas and, above all, only and if we talk about women; the men's candidates would be competent by nature. Some women do not want to be elected just because they are women; the experience of women is necessary for political life and, if you do not activate tools to reverse the trend in Italy, not only will we not have women elected because they are women, but - probably - not even women elected at all. In our country there is still a worrying situation of discrimination against women. The instruments to promote and encourage the presence of women in the workplace and political decision-making are, unfortunately, mainly in the hands of national governments and political parties. Although the European Union has so far played a key role in promoting equality between women and men in the social and economic fields, it has been too cautious on the issue of gender rebalancing in the domain of political representation. The European policy to promote a balanced representation of women and men within decision-making processes has been structured mainly through soft, therefore not directly binding instruments, i.e. through recommendations and resolutions. The absence of decisive action in the field of political representation is a serious vacuum within the overall strategy to combat inequalities between women and men in the Union. In our country, the innumerable failures to introduce equal legislation in the political sphere are the result of a universally allied male monopoly against the very idea of thinking concretely about the placing of women in the centres of political power. The problem is right here. We made sure that the battle was only played between a genre, for a genre. Fairness has become a social battle only from a female point of view and has not been a political, economic and social goal that would make our shared universe better. Everything ended up locked up in the confines of a conversation between women, about women. Then let's try to start from this silence: to men, above all, to try to jump the usual fences, which are very easy to disassemble, with a little pragmatism and courage. We are a country that has been standing still for decades, rigid and predictable, where one in two women does not have a paid job, where families have a child and then immediately think they have to close the accounts. Can it not become a priority for all to seek strategies, even temporary ones, capable of reawakening self-esteem and trust in each other? More transparency in people's selections, more free competition between ideas and - then - a prayer: in all this debate, suspend the objection of merit. Do you mean that in Italy the merit triumphed until this annoyance came, this insanity of quotas? And then there are so many immersive women among your companions, mothers, co-workers, friends, daughters? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u42	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u43	Mr President, I believe that if a Martian came down here to see our work, hearing certain speeches, the first question he would ask would be: do women vote in your country? Do they have the right to vote? Do they participate in the elections? Can women be candidates? I say this because, to hear certain speeches, the first thing that is questioned is the equality of rights and duties that the Constitution recognizes to men and women. Then, it should be made clear to this Martian that Italy is a country in which all men and women have equal rights and duties, according to Article 3 of the Constitution. But not only that. Fortunately, I say, the exercise of these rights has led women, in very few years, to climb the peaks of professions that were once entirely and exclusively male. The last competition to enter the judiciary was won for over 60% by women: 67 percent of women. There are entire vital sectors of our society, starting from the school, where once the female presence was absent; the important role of teacher was once only male, while today it is almost totally female. It is also enough to see the world of medicine, access to the medical faculty and the medical profession, to discover with pleasure that the majority of those who go in to be doctors are women. Just see the contests for notary or those that concern delicate functions, for example police, to find that the majority of the winners are made of women. So, if I were to apply some of the arguments I heard about equality in the judiciary, for example, I would have to conclude that 17% of women who exceed 50% should not have access to the judiciary because that 17% of men who, being less good, have not won the competition should go to their place; so we get equality at 50%. Honestly, that sounds a little crazy to me. If women are better and manage to win the competitions and get to impose themselves in the most delicate situations of our civil life, it means they are better. Therefore, it is right that, if they win most of the competitions to enter the judiciary or to enter the profession of notary, lawyer or doctor, it is theirs to impose: it means that young males will have to study and engage more. This is the picture of the situation. I always read the big papers. I see my friend Zavoli, extraordinary senator, not only for his age, but also for the attention with which he follows the works. Well, the great newspapers are concerned about the battles of women and gender equality. I have seen that among the ten most important Italian newspapers ('Corriere della Sera', 'La Repubblica', 'La Stampa', 'L'Avvenire', etc.) the directors are all male. They resign then and leave half the positions of director to women. Why must the directors of the great newspapers be men and not women? Of course, I say this following the reasoning of those who make equality a dogma. On the other hand, I am convinced that women will come to be great editors of the newspaper (also in the past) thanks to their abilities. Now, it seems to me that this general reasoning on the superiority of women, by capacity, in occupying very important places in our society does not grin. It is said that in politics this does not happen or still does not happen enough. The Martian from before might say: But in Italy, when you vote in a municipality, in a province, in a region or to elect parliament, is there a single list? Is there only one list that allows you to be elected? The answer is: no, one, two, three, four, ten or twenty lists can be presented in our system. So, since 52% of voters are women, could we not present a list of women alone? What if one theoretically wants to present a list of only women, or even men? He might want to present it to intercept the vote of 52% of the voters. "No!" - say those of gender equality - "You are forbidden to present a list of only women, as you are forbidden to present a list of only men. You must present a list of alternate men and women, even with the obligation of head coach. If there is a leading man who is very good, maybe you can't introduce him because, in the game of 50%, there must be a woman. Or, if there are three very good women who would like to run at the top of the list, you can't do it: you have to eliminate one, because there must also be a man. So, let's clarify this, also for those who follow us from abroad: in Italy there is freedom. When I think of the United States or England - countries that are notoriously undemocratic and do not know democracy! - I laugh at the idea that in every American state, when the two senators are elected, they must be a man and a woman. Go tell the Americans that, by law, in every state there must be equality and therefore representatives must be a man and a woman; they will say that the representatives of a state are the two senators that citizens elect, who, on equal terms, can be black or white, women or men. They elect the best: this is how it works in the Congress of the United States. And so it happens in England when they elect their parliamentarians. And so in Finland. I read in a letter published yesterday on the "Corriere della Sera" that 47% of the Finnish Parliament is made up of women, but the Finns explained that in their country there is no quota, no obligation or constraint: there is the ability of women to make politics and reach places of great responsibility. After all, there were Thatcher, Golda Meir and Indira Gandhi, even in countries like Pakistan and India where there was this evolution. If we want to come to the legal fact that concerns the Constitution and the draft law that we are talking about, there is also a misunderstanding as big as a house. Since I was in the Council of Ministers when Article 51 of the Constitution was reformed, I am well aware of the debate that took place there. Mr Pisanu and I corrected this article, which was then approved by Parliament and is the one in force, on the basis of the 1995 judgment of the Constitutional Court, which had dismissed, declaring it unconstitutional, the law of then, which provided for the alternation of men and women on the electoral lists, stating that men and women cannot be alternated by law because they contradict Article 3 of the Constitution. The text of Article 51, which had entered the Council of Ministers with an attempt to affirm not the equal opportunity to participate, but the guarantee of the result, was rightly modified to say that it is right that women should be on the lists, is quite right, and the principle imposed by law - it was said: for a transitional period - to avoid discrimination was that there was at least a percentage of women candidates. However, think about it, because this too is somewhat in contradiction with what I said earlier. How do you do, in a democratic country, to say "you can't make a list of only women", "you can't constitute the party of women" or "you can't form the party of men"? It seems to me a very, very heavy limitation of personal freedom. However, it was said that for reasons of opportunity at least the lists must present women candidates. Then, I who want an electoral system with preferences say, addressing colleagues who did not want them, that with the law passed to the House, when there will be a list of men and women all the debate will be on who should be the leader, because in almost all colleges the leader will be elected and the others will be extras or water carriers having no chance of being elected. In an electoral system with preferences instead, when there was a list of candidates made of men and women it is clear that the voter would choose the candidate he thinks best. But Article 51 precludes the guarantee of results, while it requires participation. And I go back to the competitions that I said earlier: in the contests for magistrates, notaries, to enter universities and to practice the profession of doctor it is clear that men and women can participate; if then the result is that 67 percent of the winners are women because they are better, it must be noted. Those who call to mind Article 51 therefore say something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. If we then go to see the bill that was presented, do you think that by law we can write that it is mandatory to draw up the list; in a certain way? It will be easier for the European Parliament, but for the elections to the municipal councils? Anyone who is not hypocritical knows very well that small or medium-sized municipalities are hunting women to be listed; there is a desperate attempt to find people who want to engage in politics and enter lists. And then there is the hunt for wives, daughters, for those who offer themselves as a loan, because, maybe in those municipalities there was a chance to find women who want to commit! It's really very difficult. But one particular thing is written in this bill: that if the list drawn up for the European elections is not correct the decimation will take place. Think how constitutional a principle can be that when in the list of candidates the expected presence relationship is not respected, the office reduces the list by deleting the names of the candidates belonging to the most represented gender, proceeding from the last of the list, so as to ensure compliance with the same provision. Thus, if the list is in alphabetical order, who is called for example Zurlo, is dead, because if there is an error in the list it does not eliminate those who have a surname that starts with the letter "A" like Andreotti, that still remains on the list, but it removes those who have the misfortune of having a surname that starts with the letter "Z" and is the last of the list. On the other hand, if the list is not written in alphabetical order, a male gentleman or a female lady who have been listed, just because instead of being in the first, second or third place they are in the fifteenth, sixteenth or seventeenth, after they have submitted and signed the candidacy are deleted. Asking the reason for the cancellation they would hear you answer: "Because you are a man and, in your place, we have to put a woman so that the list is regular." If this is not done, the list will be rejected. Do you realize what we're writing? Beyond the pink quota, it is madness, without any rational, constitutional or common sense importance. It is totally contrary to the level playing field guaranteed by the Constitution. Me, Mario Rossi, or me, Maria Rossi, who signed the list, just because they put me in a place ahead of the list I get deleted and in my place there goes any person, one of the 25 million Italians, as long as it is of sex other than mine? Is one of the 25 million okay, anyone? I, on the other hand, that I was listed and I signed, woman or man, I have to be canceled because I have to give the place to one of the 25 million because of sex other than mine? Is that what we write in the bill? Do we want to impose this on citizens? I have heard great emphasis on women and pink quotas, but I have not heard anyone speak on these issues. But there is a constitution in our country. We have waged battles of freedom so that men and women can, on equal terms, have access to all professions and professions, even by reaching the top. Someone could tell me that if we look at the judiciary today, the presidents of cassation are still men. That is true, but I remember that until about forty years ago there were no magistrates. You understand that if every competition is won by 60-70 percent of women, the problem of apicals is also solved, because it is clear that, a few years from now, the top of the judiciary will also be female. You used to hear about prefect women? Do you know how many prefect women are now? I invite you to look at how many there are in our cities. And that's right, because there was a women's revolution that occupied the highest levels of state administration. Then there are colleagues who are carrying on a formidable subject with their fellow men, saying that they are better, more honest, better prepared and, therefore, when the government or Parliament has women, the world is better. Who said that? I should accept a racist speech for which men, just because they are men, are not able to legislate and govern. Then women come and teach us how to be in the world. On the other hand, I am still of the idea that there are dumb men and dumb women, intelligent men and intelligent women. This prosopopea of saying that women, just because they are the best in the world, seems to me to be a jolt, meanwhile of common sense, and then of the reality of the facts. Where is it written? Who said that? When? Where? How? [[Senator Bencini's comments.]] A different thing, however, is a selection through democratic criteria and meritocracy. There's a lot to do. I see very active guilds of parliamentarians who want to go back to being parliamentarians, like in the House, all in white clothes, etc. The problem of women, however, is not that of parliamentarians who want to go back to being parliamentarians. The problem with women is white-handed dismissal and a level playing field for jobs that are being carried out and which are being paid less. Then there is a natural condition - alas! - which requires the woman a sacrifice and commitment supplement. In fact, she puts her children in the world and has such a relationship with them that at certain moments of her life, inevitably, she has to cope with problems of work but also with important and decisive commitments for society, such as the care of children. A task that, despite all that is said, is purely maternal, because the relationship of mother with her son, especially before, during and after childbirth, does not directly concern men. We all know that a professional hired by a company or a professional firm when she gets pregnant and has children is looked at with suspicion, not understanding that children are a wealth for everyone, it is thought that the pregnant woman will leave the job and will have to be replaced with another person. It is in these situations that the State must really intervene by guaranteeing equality, enabling men and women to be recruited regardless of the positive characteristics of women who also face these problems! On the ups and downs - I say this to my colleagues in the Democratic Group - we introduce preference. Think of the battle that took place in the House of Deputies with women dressed in white. Scenarios that, in my opinion, are not good for women or for Parliament, it is enough to see public opinion polls on pink quotas, against which the majority of Italians are opposed. Think: the majority of the population is female and the majority of Italians did not like what happened to the House of Deputies. The problem can be solved at the root. Just introduce preferences. Excuse me, what's the problem? You have to explain to me why for the municipality we vote expressing preferences, for the Region we express preferences, for the European Parliament we express preferences (and the bill in question wants to regulate how we will vote with preferences), for the House of Deputies not. Why? Someone explain to me rationally why. So let us decide to eliminate the preferences for elections in the municipalities, in the regions, in the European Parliament. But it's not like that. Even in Tuscany, the only Italian Region in which for the regional elections there was no possibility of expressing preferences, they want to re-introduce preferences. They want to introduce them into Tuscany and, perhaps, the same ones who had made a pact to eliminate them in the past now want to eliminate them at national level, or at national level want to put citizens in front of the choice: either eat this soup, or jump out the window. Once we've guaranteed the same number of men and women on the list, if there's a preference, wouldn't we be okay? Perhaps not the preference of couples, because this presents a small problem that we have already experienced in Campania. In fact, it is not that the voter elects the man or the woman: he elects the couple. The candidate therefore no longer runs alone, because if he is in pairs doubles the votes, he can double them. If a man gets 100 votes and the woman gets another 100 votes, together they get 200 votes each. Those who do not mate, or those who are in a context of "bigamia" with a sly or furbine who have entered into an agreement with two candidates of different sex, except to see then that the exchange did not exist, so those who obtained more votes favored the candidate who was elected and the one who did not get the votes in return, stay at home. I would like to understand what these mechanisms have to do with democracy, which on the ground become totally random and lead to very curious changes, so that in our system the candidate is no longer voted, but the couple, and the couple for the regional elections must be formed by a man and a woman, with the penalty of annulment. I read that there are three preferences in this text, but I do not believe that in all the districts they are among the preferences. In the smaller ones, it seems to me that there are two. In this last case the problem of those who are unlucky and run on their own arises because they do not find a partner, who already has a handicap because they cannot add their votes to those of another candidate. Another mystery. I hope that some of my colleagues will explain to me the rationality of this rule. For all these reasons, not least the one mentioned by some colleagues at the time of the European elections (and how can we change the rules of the game when the collection of signatures has already begun? Perhaps the attempt will be good for the next legislature) we are absolutely opposed to the adoption of the bill under discussion. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, there is a first problem in examining this bill. We all know that electoral rules are not neutral because every legislator at the time when he evaluates electoral legislation aims at a certain result. This should mean that electoral laws should never be done in the run-up to the elections. I know very well that, instead, in our country the rule seems almost the opposite, because many times they have been launched in elections. In this case, we are faced with an administrative and electoral procedure which has already begun. Senator Lo Moro is like me (in view of our past) careful to respect the rules and equality between all citizens. Therefore, we should pay close attention to this aspect, asking ourselves whether it is possible to discuss and approve a rule that has immediate effect. I am not saying this to get away from the issues of merit, to which I will immediately pass. I say this because I believe that in our country we must reconstruct the rules: it is not a question of transforming this House or other institutional bodies into post-work railway bodies, but it is a question of giving everyone the responsibility to provide rules that can be respected by everyone and, above all, can be understood as a path of research of the best possible electoral method. If, however, we are at the time of the elections, it is very difficult for this to happen, because there is conditioning. I shall now turn to merit. Article 51 of the Constitution, which is certainly a specification of Article 3, has been referred to several parties. However, it took 54 years to amend Article 51. I believe that, if we were to start a reflection based on the debate in this House and on what has often opened up in the country, we should say that in Italy there is not yet an effective culture of equality between men and women. In fact, Article 51 of the Constitution raises the question of equal access to public offices; I remember, however, that equality of access was largely already in place, although it took years, decades, after the Constitution, to achieve it. The rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, knows better than I do that women have not had access, even though they have equal conditions, to certain professions, to which they then had access, but have never claimed reservations of places for management offices and apical positions. Therefore, when we discuss this measure, we must always take into account the fact that, as laid down in Article 51 of the Constitution, we must contribute with positive actions to make the culture of equality grow in our country. Beware that, in order for this to happen, we cannot be content with a statistical-numeric fact that certainly places Italy in a situation not of last position in Europe. The figures that distinguish the presence (also in the European Parliament) of women Members of the various nations have been mentioned here. That is not the central point, however. We all know what our country's political-party system is. We must put in place conditions that determine an effective positive action for the achievement of equality, and not create a reserve, because if it were a reserve we would do a wrong operation, because we would legitimize those positions that we all criticize (of masculinism or feminism, depending on the positions). If we do not intervene to ensure equality as a principle and turn the principle into a reserve, then we do not bring about positive action in favour of equality, but we give an argument to those who are against effective equality. What solutions can be adopted? If I have the 50% division of applications for each of the sexes there is already equality, there is the condition of equal access, as well as in the case of equal access to the public competition to which some of my colleagues have referred. If we predict the division of applications to 50%, we cannot intervene on preferences, because otherwise we alter the principle of equality established with that measure. The solution is quite different, Senator Lo Moro, in case, by hypothesis, I had to take into account a different proportion at the level of applications: then yes, I have to intervene on preferences, because in that case it no longer becomes reserve, but expression of equality. Let me give an example: if we maintain the current discipline which limits the presence of a sex to a maximum of two thirds of the nominations, let us say that in the region of the North-West (where I live) women are two thirds of the list and therefore a third is reserved for us men, in this case I must have an effective equality; then it is correct that I should be given the possibility of guaranteeing a vote within the preferences. I do not understand, Senator Lo Moro, the nullity of the second and third preference if not attributed to candidates of the opposite sex, because if it is not a reserve, being I the third (for example), I must pretend that, if the elector expresses the three preferences, one should not be of the same kind. Incidentally, we are talking about gender diversity, but if I remember correctly there are some amendments that refer to gender, but we are talking about sex, because if we were to talk about gender, some scholars of this subject (not electoral, but gender distinction) tell us that there may be even six gender differences, so I would not even have so many niches within the electoral lists. Therefore, when we apply the Constitution that talks about gender diversity, we talk about gender diversity. Returning to the example, if I as an elector were to express the three preferences, I must necessarily reserve one to those who have a third of the nominations. This is the logic that can grow that culture of equality that should exist in the country. If, on the other hand, you leave 50 and 50, it becomes difficult to support the need to develop a preference speech. Senator Lo Moro and I were both magistrates, and it is as if, having had equal access in the judiciary, we then felt, later, to have a privilege (and I must say that today this privilege could be for males, because the male part begins to be minority, but that is not the problem). I would like to recall that, when I was a magistrate and I also dealt with the Association of Magistrates, I argued that between me and Senator Lo Moro (which I always quote as an example), if we had the same characteristics of hard work, professionalism and more, Senator Lo Moro should have been preferred for a semi-directive or managerial place, because certainly she, as a woman, had to overcome a handicap that I did not have and, at the same time, overcome the handicap constituted by the family and children. Do you know what reality it was? That in that assembly my proposal was rejected (most of those present were women). This is reality and logic. Therefore, Mr Calderoli, you, who know a lot more about electoral matters than I do, and you know that those rules are not neutral, you know that we cannot discuss them today, because I can also jog the electoral norm according to what I already know is nominations: I already have appointments in Milan with four people who want support for the election campaign, as you know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I guarantee you I don't have the same appointments as you! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I guarantee, however, that it would be equally appropriate to use this time, precisely because the rule does not apply immediately, to promote a breakthrough. And the turning point cannot be to combine two different systems. I turn to the wisdom of the rapporteur. Fifty-fifty? No impact on preferences. A third, as it is today, of candidates of different sex? There is no doubt that we must introduce, in the system of preferences, the principle that a single preference must be reserved for that particular kind. We need to think in these terms about the culture of equality. I should like to point out that I have heard a number of statements here today which prescind from the culture of equality and, on the contrary, it seems to me that they reflect a desire to overpower any different position, whether that of women or men who were minorities. I hope that there will be the possibility, in the amending seat, of finally reaching a product that contributes to that culture. If it took 54 years to have a rule amending Article 51 of the Constitution (which was not necessary, according to Article 3 of the Constitution), I wonder: how many more years will it take? In order to achieve the true society of our country, 1975 was expected, with family law, to guarantee a woman, finally, the same position as man. Yet, Mr President, we lived in a country where, before the unity of Italy, in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies (but you do not know, probably), there was a legal regulation, of San Leucio (which was a small community wanted by the Bourbons), to check whether those norms brought about social unrest or whether they could guarantee a actually more just society. Do you know what those standards used to be (and I'm talking about before 1860)? The participation of women in the family business, which was introduced by us in 1975; the participation of women in the vote. Before the unity of Italy, in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, in the small agglomeration of San Leucio, women were allowed to vote. It was only an experiment, which then failed, of course, because it was not continued with the unity of Italy. Well, I would not want to wait 200 years to achieve what our Constitution states clearly, and that, however, cannot be exploited to have one sex overwhelmed on another. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u46	Colleagues, having the next speech a scheduled duration of twenty minutes and having been submitted to the Presidency four requests for intervention at the end of the sitting, consider the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u49	MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, I am obliged to speak because there are two of my questions to which the Government has not answered, and I take advantage of the presence of the Undersecretary who followed the proceedings. In Calabria waste management, for about fifteen years, has been entrusted to Commissioners, turning out to be bankrupt both for the absolute waste of public money (they spent over 1.2 billion euros without solving the problem) and because it focused exclusively on the construction of landfills instead of promoting a separate collection aimed at the reuse and recycling of waste. It does not pay for this failure, the Region, which for about a year has been re-entered into the full powers of the management of this sector, with unscathed continuity with the decisions taken so far, has arranged, after having committed an additional 459 million of public finances - with an order that can be counted and urgent with regard to the management of solid urban waste in Calabria - that public and private landfills are allowed to receive the quantity exceeding the nominal limits authorized for the processing at the plants of mechanical biological treatment of undifferentiated urban waste produced in the territory of the Calabria Region, without the prior treatment. This means, of course, that waste will be delivered in this way, in violation of all the rules of Community law and of our legislation. To date, the Minister for the Environment has not answered the question that I put to the Commission, 3-00365, of 17 September, aimed at promoting the restoration of legality through the simple observance of European standards and our national law. It is precisely by virtue of the renewal of this order, recently, that re-opened landfills have been authorised, of which (i.e. Celico, Bucita, even the famous Battaglina), of course with the lifting of the entire population concerned. Among other things, there was the completion of a special waste dump in the territory of Scala Coeli, of which the environmental department of the Calabria Region has modified the geographical area of legal protection of the trademark DOP Bruzio-Colline jonica Presilane. That is why I also tabled another question, the 4-00440 of 27 June, to which no reply was given. I would ask that, through you, Mr President, this new Government should pay attention to this long-standing problem for our region. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u50	Senator Molinari, the government representative is present. In any case, the Presidency will take action as indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u53	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, on 17 February the preliminary investigation of the Naples-Section 44 tribunal took place before the judge the preliminary hearing of the proceedings arising from the investigations ordered by the pm Milita and D'Alessio against Francesco Bidognetti+21 for the permanent disaster caused by the serious pollution of the so-called Land of Fires, which would result from the behaviour carried out by the defendants in the years between 1992 and 2006, whose peak of compromise will occur in 2064, due to the increasingly widespread infiltration of the toxic leculate in the aquifers. They would have mafia-managed the trans-regional waste disposal cycle, including hazardous waste disposal for misuse or uncontrolled disposal in landfills bells, with the reduction of the costs of waste producers especially in the Giugliano area, lucrating the profits of the related mafia mediation, in contempt of any legislation or authorization in competition with technicians and public officials. The gip was to notify the order for fixing the preliminary hearing, as well as the defendants, the PM, the presidency of the Council, the Ministry of the Environment at the State Bill, the Campania Region, the Province of Naples, the Province of Caserta and the Municipality of Giugliano. We do not know to date that the State, in person of the Ministry and the Campania Region, has formed a civil part in the above-mentioned proceedings. From the daily newspaper "Il Mattino" of February 18 it is learned that if the State does not constitute by March 13, 2014, the defendants could get away with compensation by choosing the abbreviated rite". If this were to happen, it would be a very serious act of renunciation of the State, the only person entitled to claim compensation for environmental damage, the exercise of a form of protection against the citizens affected, not only in advance, having not taken adequate action to prevent this happening, but even later, as a waiver of the right compensation for the disaster caused. Therefore, we ask if the Ministry has been a civil party in the above-mentioned proceedings, that is, if it has prepared to do so by today, 13 March, being the only person, at present, entitled to the exercise of the civil action for the compensation of the general and widespread environmental damage, such as injury of the public interest to the integrity of the environment. If that is not the case, we ask you to know what are the reasons for this unholy choice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u56	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to draw your attention today to the case of Cablelettra Spa, a company with registered office in Vigevano and operational units in Robbio (province of Pavia), Limatola (province of Benevento), Castelvetrano (province of Trapani) and Turin, which operated - now the past is a must, unfortunately - in the field of the design and construction of electrical installations and wiring for motor vehicles. The Vigevano court, by judgment n.12 of 19 March 2009, declared the state of insolvency, appointing an extraordinary commissioner who, on 18 December 2013, sent to the employees of the company a letter of dismissal indicating 5 March 2014 as the last day in force at the company. Between the reasons are indicated the cessation of the exercise of enterprise, the impossibility to take advantage of ulterior periods of fund integration in derogation and the impossibility for the Cablelettra Spa to relocate all the staff. And here end the certainties of the workers who, from 1 January, find themselves without social shock absorbers, without contributions, without protection. They do not even know whether the letter of dismissal sent on December 18 is actually valid. The only certainty they have is precariousness, they are the debts that they have had to contract in order to meet the daily needs since from January, although being formally in force at the company until March 5, they have not received - I repeat - any form of social shock absorbers. I know that this is just one case, yet another, which characterizes the slow death of our industrial system. However, I would like these people to be given at least answers: they have a right to do so, and I have also tabled a question of mine, which I hope will be followed up immediately by the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Orellana.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u59	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was last October 2013 when we tabled an abbreviated motion requesting the resignation of the then Special Commissioner for Waste in Rome and province, Goffredo Sottile. That is why, as a rule, the motion had reached sufficient signatures to be discussed within 45 days, but to date, after several months, it has not yet been taken into account. It wouldn't even help, because today Subtle is investigated in the Cerroni affair. We then filed numerous questions on the incinerators and the landfills of Lazio, especially those of Cerroni, now arrested, but no reply has ever been given. To the Lazio Region has been proposed by the 5 Star Movement a motion to prevent the spilling of waste in the landfills of Cerroni, that, at this point, is no longer reliable person, but also this unfortunately has remained unheard. We have made several reports of damage to citizens caused by the situation around the dump in Roncigliano, always owned by Cerroni. Finally, we have presented an urgent question to initiate all possible procedures to ask for the hydrogeological characterization of all the landfills of this attorney, now arrested. Unfortunately to date neither ARPA nor the institutions have yet to move, while on March 7, twenty-one people ended up in hospital because of the thunder coming from the dump in Roncigliano, always lawyer Cerroni. I wonder, then, in the name of what interest are we sacrificing the health of our citizens? This majority of broad understanding, which has now become the majority of broad claims, is not about human dignity and the constitutional principle of health protection. We are tired of denouncing every week the permanence of a system that sees managers corrupted and arrested and citizens in hospital or plundered of their rights. Now the Land of Fires is on everyone's lips, so we lit up the spotlight; instead, Lazio's landfills weigh only on the shoulders of the citizens. I am here to ask, in the name of the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, to take the appropriate measures immediately and to respond to our questions and questions, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-208.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.47 p.m.
