ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 17,02 hours) begins. Ladies and gentlemen, pending the conclusion of the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.11 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 14 February 2014 Honourable President, I inform you that today I resigned to the Head of State the irrevocable resignation of the Cabinet that I chaired. The President of the Republic took note and invited the Government to remain in office for the handling of current affairs. F.to Enrico Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u5	With the resignation of the Government, the activity of the Senate Assembly, in line with the general principles of the constitutional order, is limited to carrying out legislative activities related to constitutional deadlines (such as decrees-laws) or obligations inherent to its prerogatives. Commissions are authorised to express their views on government acts which are due to expire, as well as to continue the information procedures already initiated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1288, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Buemi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 146 of 23 December 2013 proposes to introduce measures to remedy, with immediate effects, prison overcrowding, by introducing provisions on the control of house arrests, on the discipline of drug offences, in the framework of alternative measures to detention and measures to replace expulsion of the sentenced non-EU citizen. In addition, a set of provisions for the execution at home of prison sentences of not more than 18 months is introduced. But the text of the decree also concerns early release, the introduction of a new judicial procedure before the judicial oversight and, last, provides for the establishment of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons detained or otherwise deprived of personal freedom. Coming to the examination of the novelties of the Code of Criminal Procedure introduced by Article 1, it is particularly important to amend Article 275-a, in the field of methods of control by electronic means or other technical instruments available to the judicial police. In the previous text of Article 275-a, such control procedures were to be carried out if the court considered it necessary in relation to the nature and extent of the precautionary requirements to be met in the specific case. The scope of the rule is now extended, since it introduces the supposed principle that electronic support control always takes place unless the court considers it unnecessary. On the point, it should be specified that, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 2, the effectiveness of the provision in the matter of electronic control devices is deferred at the time of the entry into force of the law of conversion. Taking into account the changes made to Article 678, a paragraph 1-a is introduced which provides for the application of the procedure provided for in Article 667 (4). In essence, the supervisory magistrate, in matters relating to the installment and conversion of financial penalties, the remission of debt and the execution of the semi-detention and controlled freedom, as well as requests for rehabilitation and evaluation of the outcome of the custody under trial, shall be required to proceed in any case, without formalities, with an order communicated to the public prosecutor and notified to the person concerned. Against that order, pursuant to the same Article 667, paragraph 4, proceedings shall be instituted by opposition. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u8	Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u9	I would ask Members of this House, please, to lower their voices because it is very tiring. Please, Senator Buemi. Mr Buemi, rapporteur. On the other hand, the ordinary procedure laid down in general for the surveillance procedure remains in matters relating to admissions, as provided for in Article 148 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to security measures and to the declaration of habituality or professionalism in the crime or of a tendency to criminality. Basically, we can talk about the introduction of a double procedure track for surveillance. It should be noted that, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, Article 1 has not been amended. Article 2 of the Decree-Law contains amendments to the single text of the laws on drug law, as referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic of 9 October 1990, n 309. In Article 73, the replacement of paragraph 5 introduces the crime of illicit conduct on drugs or psychotropic substances, of a minor nature. It should be noted that, while the previous text had an attenuating circumstance determined by the small extent of the production of traffic and the illicit possession of narcotic or psychotropic substances, the decree introduces a new incriminating case covering the conducts which, by means, the manner or circumstance of the action, or the quality and quantity of the substances, are of minor importance. It should also be noted that the amendment of Article 73, paragraph 5, also brings with it a new edittal framework for drug-related offences; the scope should also be assessed with reference to the scope of Article 280 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the coercive precautionary measure of custody in prison may be arranged for crimes for which the sentence of imprisonment is provided for not less than five years. Therefore, on one hand, it remains applicable also to the new case governed by Article 73 (5); on the other hand, under the amendments made to Article 380, it is excluded from stopping in flagrante. Also with reference to the single text of the laws on the discipline of drugs, it is worth mentioning the repeal of article 94, paragraph 5, which had the limit for the custody in evidence to the social service to which it could be accessed only twice. The ratio of this rule is clear and lies in the intention of abolishing a limit that could, in some cases, become an absolute stiffening in the execution of the prison sentence for drug addicts who had been entrusted to the social service for therapeutic activity, without achieving definitive results in terms of the recovery of their psychophysical condition of dependence. Finally, it should be noted that the Chamber of Deputies has introduced two amendments relating to Article 380 (2) (h) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, concerning the exclusion of compulsory arrest for offences related to drugs, of a minor nature; the other, aimed at coordinating Article 19 (5) of the provisions on criminal proceedings against minor defendants. Therefore, in determining the penalty for the effects of the application of the precautionary measures, the minor age shall not be taken into account for the same minor crimes as referred to in Article 73 (5) of the same single text. The Commission has focused a great deal on this provision and the debate has highlighted the following. According to the amendment made to the Chamber of Deputies in proceedings only for the murders of small drug dealers, the determination of the edittal penalty to the effects of the application of protective measures other than protective custody, does not take into account the fact that the child is under pain. If this derogation had not been introduced, as a result of the new case incriminating the crime of minor dealing, the incidence of the minor age on the maximum edittal sentence of five years of imprisonment would have prevented the application of any protective measures for minor defendants. In the Commission, however, there has been a very interesting debate: doubts have been raised that the amendment to the other branch of Parliament may interfere with the discipline of detention in prison for minor defendants. The latter is provided for in Article 23 of the provisions on criminal proceedings against minors themselves and provides that protective custody (both prison and house arrest) may be applied only when criminal offences are punishable by life imprisonment or imprisonment of not less than nine years. Well, if you read with particular attention article 380, paragraph 2, letter h), of the code of criminal procedure (called by article 73 of the single text on drugs), it is understood that this norm refers exclusively to the crimes of so-called large dealing, and excludes from the application of the compulsory arrest precisely the forecast referred to in article 73, paragraph 5, modified by the same decree in conversion. Article 3 makes changes to the penitentiary system and, in particular, to the institution of the right to complain, as well as to the judicial procedure which is placed in it as collateral. The whole discipline is aimed at pursuing two fundamental objectives. Firstly, it is intended to ensure effective protection of the rights of the prisoner to obtain, with speed and certainty, protection against the methods of atonement of the prison sentence. In addition, it is intended to remove the forms of appeals against the decision of the supervisory magistrate and the supervisory court. The installation of the means of weighing has been modified during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies for which it is regulated as follows. Inmates and internees may address oral or written requests or complaints, including in a closed envelope, to a number of subjects: the director of the institute, the regional provider, the head of the Department of the penitentiary administration and the Minister of Justice, as well as the Presidents of the Regional Council, the magistrate of surveillance and the guarantors of the prisoners and, finally, the Head of State. The decision of the supervisory magistrate is allowed to claim the court, while the decision of the supervisory court is liable in cassation, for violation of the law. The new rules also contain provisions on orders for compliance, declaration of nullity of acts in violation or circumvention of the measure that has not been implemented. Among the detailed provisions governing the new discipline of the right of complaint, notes, last, the new rule added in article 47, paragraph 8, of the Law of 26 July 1975, n. 354. This is the news concerning temporary derogations from the requirements, which are authorised, in cases of urgency, by the Director of the External Criminal Enforcement Office. In addition, with the introduction of Article 58-d, provision is made for the provision of house detention through the prescription of control procedures, including by electronic means or other technical means. As is evident, the use of the so-called electronic bracelet is extended to all cases in which the detention is arranged, even if it can be provided during the execution of the measure and therefore not only when the restrictive measure of personal freedom is imposed. Also in this case, the effectiveness of the provision relating to the particular methods of control in the execution of the domestic detention is deferred to the day following that of publication in the Official Journal of the law of conversion. During the examination at the other branch of Parliament it was intended to introduce a provision allowing, for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of the same law of conversion, the functions of executive of external criminal function to be carried out by the officials included in the role of the heads of prison institutions. Article 4 introduces new rules on special early release, which refers to a deduction of penalty granted with early release increased to seventy-five days for each semester of reduced sentence. In any event, this award rules exclude those convicted of certain of the crimes provided for in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975. It should also be pointed out that the special early release extended to seventy-five days per semester does not apply to sentenced persons admitted to probation and home detention, nor to those sentenced who have been admitted to the execution of the sentence at home or who are under house arrest pursuant to Article 656, paragraph 10, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The content of the rules with this new species of early release has been the subject of numerous interventions, since the Commission noted in the course of the debate that liberation no longer presupposes the repentance or good conduct of the prisoner, but is applied automatically and generally, except, as mentioned above, the reference to certain types of crimes which bear particular social alarm. The further measure to reduce prison overcrowding is that of execution at home of prison sentences not exceeding 18 months. The decree-law confines itself to eliminating the provisional nature of this enforcement measure at home, abolishing the temporal reference to the complete implementation of the extraordinary penitentiary plan and in any case at the fixed deadline of 31 December 2013. Therefore, the rule, originally of an exceptional and provisional nature, becomes effective under the scheme. Article 6 deals with legislative decree No 286 of 25 July 1998, which contains the single text on immigration. Amendments to Article 16 of the single text are designed to extend the right to provide for expulsion as replacement or alternative to detention. Thus, with the original text of the decree-law, the limit was extended to sentences for crimes, always concerning immigration, for which the prison sentence is established higher than two years, or for one or more crimes provided for in Article 407, paragraph 2 (a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Chamber of Deputies has made a change in order to indicate on time the crimes provided for in the same single text in the matter of immigration for which expulsion cannot be ordered as a substitute for the prison sentence: these are the only crimes referred to in Article 12, paragraphs 1, 3, 3-a and 3-b, of Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998. The expulsion is also ordered when the part of the penalty relating to the conviction for crimes that do not allow it has been atoned. It is, therefore, a partial expulsion of a residual penalty. Finally, procedures are introduced which should allow easier and faster identification of the names and nationality of the foreign prisoner. With regard to the new regulatory framework extending the application of the expulsion of the substitution of detention, reservations have been raised by some members of the Commission, since the deterrent force of the criminal rules is likely to be lowered; in fact, the propensity to commit criminal offences would be facilitated by the prospect of having the mere expulsion of the national territory imposed instead of the prison sentence. Article 7 provides for the establishment at the Ministry of Justice of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons held or deprived of personal freedom. The Guarantor shall be a collegiate body composed of two members, as well as the President. The requirements for access to office - which lasts five years - tend to qualify the members of the college for independence and competence in the disciplines relating to the protection of human rights. The appointment procedure provides for a resolution of the Council of Ministers, the acquisition of the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, as well as the decree of appointment by the Head of State. Of particular importance is the choice that the Guarantor makes use of structures and resources made available by the Minister of Justice, whose organisation is reserved for a subsequent ministerial regulation. Article 7 (5) regulates the functions of supervision, visit and inspection, access to documents, recommendation to the administrations concerned, transmission of an annual report to the Presidents of the Chambers and the relevant Ministries, as well as collaboration with the Territorial Guaranteers. This aspect was also discussed during the examination in the Commission, with particular reference to the position of third parties and the independence of the Guarantor, as well as to the resources and staff available to him. Article 8 provides for the extension of the decrees relating to the facilitations and reductions for the year 2013 to be granted to employers in favour of the employment of prisoners and internees. These measures are aimed at promoting the external activities of workers detained or interned through the extension of tax concessions and reliefs in favour of undertakings employing them. Finally, Articles 9 and 10 provide for financial cover and entry into force respectively. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u10	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of us, with this measure, put in place a network of rules which we believe will really cause serious damage (and since this is the fourth decree-law emptying prisons, the damage is now irreparable), damage that is caused to the justice system intended in its complexity, but first and foremost to the citizens and secondly to all the police forces that every day guarantee - and guarantee us - the security of the territory. In this sense, as a minority we consider useless and dangerous, as well as boldly negittous, not to understand the disappointment that would derive from the introduction of these rules the police forces and all those who guarantee security within the prisons. For this minority, in fact, the measure is aimed at merely reducing the number of prisoners restricted in Italian prisons, and this happens through two different lines, but united by a single purpose, that is to free the criminals and leave the citizens without any protection. We are witnessing, in the last two years, the disposal of the criminal instrument, that is, the renunciation of the State to the punishment of crimes, with effects on our society both in terms of the credibility of the State and in terms of deterrence to commit crimes, whose effects cannot fail to be evident to anyone. It's yet another heinous emergency measure. Turning to the examination of the text, on the one hand, there is a prohibition to apply, to those who are guilty of the crime referred to in Article 73 (5) of the single text in the field of drugs, the measure of detention in prison; with the predictable effect of putting criminals back into freedom which, probably, have not undertaken or at least interrupted a re-education process and, unfortunately, will return to delinquere; on the other hand, through the measures of permanent indult or masked (because, it is true: what is being talked about is an indult, and, as has already been said and as has also been mentioned in the Commission Justice, but also by other authoritative exponents of both the judiciary and the university world, it is a measure that reveals profiles of inconstitutionality, which we have highlighted in the question before us) this Government has decided and chosen which are the subjects to be released: they are the condemned to longer penalties (and therefore, in fact, the most dangerous ones), and only to a small extent will have effects on those who are less serious. Let us remember that it is only thanks to the strong opposition of our political group in the other branch of Parliament that we managed to make expunge the rule that granted the benefits of early release to those who had been stained with mafia crimes. Let us also remember that this is a Government which, in the original formulation of this decree, had foreseen early release for the Mafia. And let's not add anything else. There will always be great and strong opposition on these issues from the Northern League Group, which will never be a quitter and will never want to pass rules that allow to give benefits to people who have been guilty of such crimes. It is yet another measure, what we examine today, wrong in 'an, because the bill is the son of a culture of goodness and surrender, an inductive culture that is not the culture that our country needs. This measure is wrong, because it is the clear and clear certification of the failure of the measures adopted in the past, from 2006 onwards: from the indult, wanted by the Prodi Government and voted by the majority that at the time supported the Prodi Government itself, with the exception of the North League, which was the only political force that voted against the indult, up to what was the first decree emptied prisons. This measure in fact agreed to those who still had eighteen months to serve in prison to be able to serve it to the housekeepers, without expiating it and without in this way giving minimal application to the principle of certainty of the penalty and to an effective re-education of the prisoner. And what did you think of introducing this Government (even if you don't really know what this Government is) with this emergency measure? Through Article 5, it introduced the stabilisation of home detention that had been conceived and wanted as an exceptional measure and indissolubly linked to the complete implementation of the prison plan. In short, Article 5 distorts the meaning of Article 1 of Law No 199 of 2010, which was, as it was intended by its nature, a temporary rule which cannot and should not be transformed into a permanent rule. This measure we are debating today in this House is indeed the most blatant failure of indulgent policies, of amnesty policies, of policies of general clemency on the issue of prisons. There is a problem of overcrowding, but the history and the normative path of the last Berlusconi Government show that it can be solved and that it can be faced with different procedures and instruments opposed to those that today are proposed with the present provision, instruments that unfortunately have been depowered and, in fact, cancelled by this Government and the last Monti Government. The current measure, on the other hand, is harmful. It is a very damaging measure because it gives an extremely wrong message, which leads to the general belief that committing crimes, and in particular serious social alarm crimes, in addition to particularly serious crimes, involves the application of a reduced criminal penalty! On the contrary, those who should be protected, all citizens, and in particular those who are offended by the crime, will not even be able to demand more justice with this system. Security cannot be relegated to secondary issues: it is fundamental and must be immanent in making the parliamentary measures that deal with justice, particularly in criminal matters, such as the one we are discussing. Never as today and never in a context like today, citizens ask for more security, they ask for more guarantees, they ask for the possibility of being able to live quietly in their homes and spend their lives serenely. Today, one of the crimes of greatest social alarm, in sharp increase, is precisely the theft, in particular in the homes but also in the form of mugging and robbery. The majority, with this measure, lowers and demolishes the principle of security, in addition to obliging the Forces of the Order in fact to carry out surveillance activities to the subjects to the housekeepers, instead of controlling and patrolling the territory. In this way, remember that you will go to subtract resources, resources and personnel from the main function of the Forces of Order or guarantee the security of citizens. Security is not really a marginal or even a demagogic theme: those who try to create a syllogism between being demagogic and seeking security show that they are not in tune with the country or with the citizens. This minority strongly believes that the measure under consideration is to subvert the natural order of things and to give only and exclusively attention to those who commit crimes, i.e. to the accused, to the prisoners, leaving without protection the person offended by the crime and the citizens all. On the other hand, we believe that attention should be given primarily to those who suffer crime. We have not heard in the majority report a word, a word spent on the victims of crime, on the people who are offended by them and on the security of our State. This minority, on the other hand, opposes the measure precisely to give voice and support to people offended by the crime and to the vast majority of honest citizens. We have opposed it, we have done it in a serious and determined way, because for us the problem of prison overcrowding must be tackled in another way, investing in prison building policies, first and foremost, that is, investing money to build new prisons and to modernize the old pavilions that are present in our country today. With the previous Berlusconi Government, €675 million had been allocated for the prison plan: the then Minister of Justice, Mr Severino, and today the current Minister of Chancellors had announced that they were ready to be used, from there to 2015, 11,000 new posts within the prisons, but this was not achieved. We believe that a systematic and organic infrastructure policy must really be pursued: we build these prisons, although I know that there are and there will certainly be difficulties to be faced, but this is a solution to this long-standing problem. Another remedy that we have proposed as the North League to address the issue of overcrowding of prisons is to have foreign prisoners serve the sentence in the countries of origin. In this respect, we cannot deny that Article 6 of this draft law provides for a rule that proceduralizes and allows expulsion. It is obvious, however, that it is difficult for expulsions to be made without funding. That is why our political strength has tabled an amendment to allow expulsions through the allocation of funds. This measure addresses the issue of justice, as if it were only that of prison overcrowding; as if the theme of the functioning of justice in our country is linked only to this theme. The majority with this measure comes to disinterest of the rest, that is to say of the totality of the real questions and relative to the justice system, like the suspended load back (equal to 9 million civil and criminal cases pending) the unreasonable duration of the criminal and civil trials, the denied civil justice in rapid issues in favor of the enterprises that ask for the payment of their credits. It is clear, therefore, that we cannot support measures such as this, and in particular the rules introduced by Articles 2, 4 and 5 which we consider to be contrary to the dignity of people, the dignity of offended persons and of those who suffer crime. This provision deals only with those who commit serious social alarm offences, such as scams, house theft, aggravated theft and stalking. Finally, through Article 7 the figure of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons held or deprived of personal freedom has been introduced; this figure, although appreciable as an instrument, makes us doubt its actual contents. For the reasons that I have set out, we remain critical and dissatisfied with the approach of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration and, as a minority, we clearly manifest our position. What we can hope for at the moment, given that there have not been and will not be time to make good changes to this text, which many people share, is that the deadline should be reached so that it does not enter into force. Also because what we ask ourselves is: besides, who will eventually be the paternity of this decree-law? It is a government measure: but from which Government? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, I would ask you for permission to attach the full text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u12	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u15	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. Before we proceed with the debate and the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, I shall put a question to the House, making a request before we proceed further on the decree-law. The assumption of this decree-law, which seems to be contrary to what the President of the Republic said in his speech at the end of the year, is that there is a non-structural prison emergency... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Palma, you have asked for the floor on the order of business. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm getting to the point, ma'am. Therefore, since there is a non-structural prison emergency, even in the light of the European infringement, action must be taken to try to influence the prison overcrowding. That is basically the premise. Well, Madam President, this is the second decree-law that is put forward by the Ministry of Justice. When the decree under discussion today reached the Senate Justice Commission, it made a request to the Government to know the following. First, the effects of the previous decree empty prisons. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, if I may, this intervention is about the substance and not the order of business. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I do not go into the matter, Madam President. If you let me finish, you'll understand. I know the rules and I would never violate them with her. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). We had asked the Commission for justice to know what the real effects of the previous decree emptied prisons on prison overcrowding were, in order to understand very well whether having touched the system in an episodic way had resulted in a certain advantage. In addition, in discussing this decree, we have also made the request to the Ministry of Justice to let us know, after a month, what the effects of this decree on overcrowding were and what was the prediction that the Ministry had made at the time it had committed itself to the decree itself. To date, Madam President, we do not have an answer to this. And I wonder, in view of the delicacy of some speeches (on which I will obviously not enter, because they are part of the merit), whether the Senate or individual senators have no right, before voting, to know the situation, in order to be able to balance, with reference to the effects of this and the other decree on the world of prison overcrowding, the other requirements that also find a constitutional guarantee. In other words, to be very clear, knowing whether this decree affects overcrowding for 300, 1,000, 2,000 or 10,000 units is a very important thing in this House at the end of the vote. We all know that there will be 62,000-63,000 prisoners at present. We all know that the European infringement will take place in May, and if, by hypothesis, as it seems, this decree were to affect only 1,000 units on the current state of the prisons, she, Madam President, realizes that the effects of this decree would not be definitive for the purposes of the infringement procedure. Moreover, the lack of knowledge of these data would not allow the senators to vote completely free, since there is the clerk of the expiration of the decree, with the effect - even here without entering into the merit of the provision - to launch, with the decree under consideration, important modifications to the current system of execution criminal without knowing whether the relevance of those modifications is counterbalanced or not by the effects that this decree produces. To conclude, Madam President, since this request has been made to the Government, in the Justice Commission, from the outset and since it has not received any response from the same, I believe that this decree cannot be dealt with seriously without knowing the actual data concerning the effects of the measure on prison overcrowding.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator Palma. The point is clear, the government is present and so I believe that in response and before the vote will consider how to respond to your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u17	Madam President, we give it as an illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u18	He asked Senator Buccarella to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to refer to the text of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2, confident that it will be read and evaluated by all my colleagues in the Senate, and I would just like to stress the fundamental points that will be the subject of illustration in the general discussion and examination of the amendments and that highlight particular problems that are added to those already represented last in President Palma's speech and first by the minority rapporteur, Senator Stefani, of the League. These further profiles, which, in our view, determine the need not to proceed with the examination of this decree, adhere to the letter of Article 4 of the decree-law, because, even beyond the intentions represented, that is to say, avoiding that the so-called extraordinary early release does not extend also to persons who have been sentenced for crimes referred to in Article 4-a of the prison order or more serious crimes, among which those relating to the association of the mafia type and other, as formulated, does not in fact achieve the objective set. In fact, even in its possible application after the conversion of the decree, it would not allow the bodies of the judicial authority called upon to assess - in this case the judiciary of supervision - to distinguish, during the evaluation of the application, those who are currently serving a sentence related to a so-called satellite crime, possibly linked to a conviction for the crime referred to in Article 416-a. Trying to explain to me better - which I might be able to do later in the general discussion and explanation of the amendments - in the practical application of the article in question, relating to early release, in fact it will not be possible to distinguish, on the part of the supervisory judiciary, those who are detained for crimes of mob association and who are at the same time serving, as crimes related to the associative one, also different crimes. The most frequent examples are the crimes of robbery, misuse of arms and so on. This is a profile which, in our view, imposes the need for amendment of the letter. Or, better still, if this appears to be not possible, since in fact this decree seems to arrive in the intentions of the majority essentially armored (although not provided with the formula of trust for objective impossibility), this is a reason why it is necessary not to proceed to the examination. The other aspect of extreme criticality are the consequences not yet appreciable and appreciated of the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court, intervened last week on Article 73 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990, in the matter of drugs. Even here, in the absence of a concrete application knowledge of the provisions of the Court, not being able to assess the extent of the releases that will take place by virtue of the probable redetermination of the penalty for those who are serving the offences referred to in Article 73, an intervention so incisive and so profound, albeit in its approximation, as the decree in question we believe that it does not deserve to be able to continue its process. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u21	On what, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Today's news is a very serious fact: it has been requested that one of the Vice Presidents of the Senate be remanded to trial. Just as we did on 18 December last, we are here to request the immediate resignation of Senator Gasparri as Vice President of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u22	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u23	Senator Santangelo, you said the surgery was on the order of business. However, we note this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u24	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u27	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a minute's attention, because with this bill we, in order not to adhere to the invitation of the President of the Republic to adopt a measure of indult, which would have immediate consequences (which I did not share, but in any case immediate), are altering the criminal system in such a way as to no longer guarantee the protection of the defence of the community. But there is an even more serious reason why we should not debate today. Last week, in fact, we asked to examine the measure already for Thursday past, because with a few minor changes we could approve a measure that had an effect, but did not alter the criminal system. On Wednesday, however, the decision of the Constitutional Court intervened, which declared the Fini-Giovanardi law of 2006 unconstitutional and consequently led to the revival of the previous discipline. At a time when, in two weeks or less, the motivation will be filed, there will no longer be article 73, paragraph 5, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of October 9, 1990, which instead with this decree we rewrite without distinguishing between soft drugs and heavy drugs and providing for a reduction of the maximum penalty to five years. Instead, as soon as the reasons for the decision of the Constitutional Court, as I said, will come into force again the law Jervolino-Vassalli, which established: Where, for the means, mode or circumstances of action or for the quality and quantity of substances, the facts provided for in this Article are of a minor nature, the penalties for imprisonment from one to six years shall apply... in the case of narcotic or psychotropic substances referred to in Tables I and III referred to in Article 14, or the penalties for imprisonment from six months to four years... in the case of substances referred to in Tables II and IV. Paragraph 5 of Article 2 of the Decree-Law does not distinguish between light drugs and heavy drugs. By prescinding from the debate between us and the fact whether we share or not, the Senate votes a law in the awareness of expressing itself against what has just been declared unconstitutional and in the awareness that it will make impossible the application of the norm that votes, because paragraph 1 of Article 73 will punish the unlawful detention that instead with the law Fini-Giovanardi was no longer punished. We do not even know the effect that the Court's ruling will have on release. We modify a rule that has nothing to do with release, because optional arrest was before and, with this bill, optional arrest remains. So, what is the need to vote on a rule that will determine for the new Government the need to intervene in ten days with a new decree-law to suppress it? Then it means not being aware! What is the point of voting on a rule if the Government will necessarily have to issue a new decree in order to avoid the disastrous consequences that would result from this conflict of rules after the decision of the Constitutional Court? I wonder, what's the point? If we do not vote and suspend the decision of the Constitutional Court, the new Government will be able to resubmit the same decree, because the suspension does not result from a will of Parliament not to proceed to the examination, but from the necessity determined by the judgment of the Court. In this case, I repeat, in accordance with the constraints of constitutionality, the new Government could present a new decree with the same content, but by modifying this rule, which now has no value, and which is reiterated at this stage. But it must be decided before we come to the examination of the amendments to Article 2, because if we vote even one deleterious amendment, it will become a problem to be able to issue a new decree with the same content. On the other hand, if we suspend (because the Constitutional Court's ruling can have the effect I have just stated), I believe that we would do something wise, correct and in the interests of the citizens, and we would guarantee the new government the possibility of correct and legitimate constitutional intervention. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u30	Barani (GAL). Madam President, representative of the Government, it is obvious that if the Senate had the opportunity to make some adjustments and the necessary changes, also shared by a large part of the Justice Commission, we would certainly have enriched the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 146 of 23 December 2013. However, the current mono-cameralism, under which the House of Deputies, when a decree-law comes to it, holds it for 50 days and sends it to us for the last 10 days, as has happened in the last six to seven months, has meant that we no longer have the opportunity, both in the Commission and here in this House, to make amendments. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court has intervened on the distinction between soft drugs and heavy drugs in a significant way, and we believe that the next Government - the Government that will be there in a few days, in a few hours - must consider (I am referring to the new Minister of Justice) the determination of the Council and make, with a new decree-law, changes to the provisions of the provision that are in conflict with the determination of the Court itself. In this House it is often said that the excellent is an enemy of good. In this decree-law there is not only the problem of drug addicts, light drugs and heavy drugs, but many other situations are considered that are waiting to be resolved. To my previous colleagues in the illustration and discussion of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, I would like to remind them that the Constitution is not free interpretation: the Constitution has very precise articles that cannot be interpreted according to convenience. The third paragraph of Article 27 provides: Penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. I believe these two lines cannot be discussed. Overcrowding prevents the application of the third paragraph of Article 27. Again, Article 28 of the Constitution states: Officials and civil servants of the State and public bodies shall be directly responsible, in accordance with criminal, civil and administrative laws, for acts carried out in violation of rights. In such cases, civil liability extends to the State and public bodies. So, the government did well to intervene on the basis of Article 28. The first paragraph of Article 32 also provides: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. What does that mean? How do you leave eight people in a two-seater cell? It is truly inhuman and inhuman. These are, therefore, the prerequisites from which we are obliged to start, also in order to ensure the effective respect of constitutional dictates. Next to them are the facts well known to all, which tell of excessive overcrowding and sometimes unscrupulous use of protective custody (I remember that 50 percent of the prisoners awaiting trial are then recognized as innocent), and we believe that these are acts of physical and psychological violence in the penitentiaries. Colleagues, we are talking about 12,000 people a year serving the prison and then a judge is declaring innocent. These data are irrefutable, recognised both at national and supranational level and we are obliged, both morally and from a legislative point of view, to deal with them. We must do so in order to put an end to situations of illegality which too often occur and which cannot be tolerated at all. That is why we shall vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because we believe that whoever wants to obtain the excellent is the enemy of good and, above all, who raises a voice of justice in this Chamber cannot be shared by our Group, which, in accordance with our Constitution, believes that the constituent Fathers wanted to give the maximum guarantee and respect for human rights. Europe too obliges us to do this: President Palma just pointed out that on 27 May next, if we do not intervene, it will be the date on which Italians will have to pay Europe for the shortcomings that Parliaments had in failing to respect human rights. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u33	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, as planned, the decision of the Constitutional Court has created a very difficult, very controversial and complex situation. First of all, I would like to make it clear to my colleagues that the Constitutional Court has not even dreamed of going into the issue of differentiation between soft drugs and heavy drugs, because the burden of merit has not dealt with it at all. The Constitutional Court has issued a very curious sentence in my view. At the Palermo Conference, to which I, then Minister, participated, the operators had pointed out that, according to the law of Cirielli, it was enough the struggle to repeat some stealth to stay in prison almost a life and begged us to introduce in a decree-law, with the first useful instrument, a rule that would eliminate the effects of the former Cirielli on drug addicts. The first useful opportunity, as is known, came in December 2005, when we left to approve a decree on drugs and drug addicts and in the same decree there were also rules on the Olympic Games of Turin. I could therefore reply to the many critics that that decree, since the title, was in the matter of drug addiction and that then were added questions that concerned Turin. In the draft law of conversion other articles were added in the matter of drug addiction, the measures became law, and as the Constitutional Court is known only two years later, in 2007, renewing its jurisprudence, for the first time stated, interpreting Article 77 of the Constitution, that necessity and urgency had to refer to homogeneous matters. This was two years after that law had been passed, so much so that for eight years, as you know, no parliament - centre-right, centre-left or technical - has ever touched the legislation, and the lucky lawyer (as she herself called herself) who won the appeal said that for eight years no colleague of yours had found a judge to put the matter before the Constitutional Court. Never in eight years had a magistrate raised that problem. I also note a curious fact concerning this question: the Court, of the 23 additional articles referring to the title of the decree (drug addiction) and its text, confirmed 21, all in the field of drug addiction, and stated that two of them did not contain the criteria of necessity and urgency. How does the Court, not Parliament, determine, out of 23 additional articles, all in the field of drug addiction, which are necessary and urgent and which are not, is a mystery, and I look forward to reading the grounds for the judgment for clarification. This is where our discussion starts. You have said that the decision of the Constitutional Court is to release 10,000 prisoners: this is perhaps in the imagination of those who provide these figures, which are totally unfounded, so much so that the Undersecretary for Justice Ferri said that the people who, one by one, will be evaluated to verify whether they are in prison only for dealing or because they have committed thefts, robberies, damage or other, would not be 10,000, but at most 2,000. We do not yet know what the practical effects of this decision will be. I remind my colleagues from all groups that the reason they went before the Court is the appeal of a gentleman carrying four kilos of hashish, which means about 16,000 doses: with that stuff they have kidnapped they make us 16,000 doses (when it comes to the kid and the cannabis). The gentleman who appealed was one who was putting four kilos of substances on the market, with very high active ingredients, which could have 16,000 doses sold on the market. This is what we are talking about here about the appeal. What has been pointed out by the Constitutional Court? The Court, without going into the substance of the matter, asked whether it was right or wrong to regard drug dealers as equally responsible, regardless of whether the drug sold is heavy or light, a distinction which does not exist in the scientific documentation. We will discuss this, but all Italian toxicologists deny that there are differences of danger between the different types of drugs, whether those derived from cannabinoids, be they substances such as cocaine or heroin. I believe that sometimes Parliament should also listen to the opinion of those who know the subject matter and the devastating effects of drugs. Having said that, let us make it clear that the Court has absolutely not entered into the substance: it said that eight years ago, for 21 articles in a decree on drug addiction, there were the prerequisites of urgency, while for two articles there were not, leaving open to the legislator the problem of how to deal with this vacuum now. It is a vacuum that we are filling today with a rule that confirms that there is no difference between heavy and light drugs, inserts an autonomous crime for minor crimes, and lowers the penalty (but rightly, from my point of view) for all drug dealers who place heavy or light drugs on the market (according to the current meaning). In my opinion, this is a fair rule that goes in the right direction and I will therefore vote for it with conviction, while voting against the amendments that want to remove it from this measure. Then I also turn to the representatives of the Ministry, to those who are there today and to those who will be there tomorrow, and I remember that we published in the week the tables of the Department of the penitentiary administration, which demonstrate the numbers of prisoners for drug issues: from the 24,000 who entered prison every year until 2005 (year before the entry into force of the law Fini-Giovanardi) we arrived last year to 18,000 (6,000 less). Therefore, inmates due to drug addiction have decreased, and not increased. Before telling around these fandonies for which the Fini-Giovanardi law would have increased the number of drug addicts in prison, one must look at the reality of the facts. In this regard I think colleagues (but I also ask for the help of the government, temporarily distracted)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government should also listen to the whole debate. GIOVANARDI (NCD). It is not easy to legislate when, against the data of the Department of the penitentiary administration or deriving from those who in the communities and in the SERTs are at the forefront in combating this phenomenon, there are gigantic hoaxes that speak of 10,000 or 15,000 prisoners who will leave the prisons (numbers data at random), and the Government is not able to tell us the consequences of the legislative measures. Do they go out in 10,000 or do they go out in ten? It's a little different if 10,000 inmates or 10 come out. Not to mention all the political controversy made by the League about the danger of 10,000 people leaving, while with this measure it is discovered that, at least as far as drug addiction is concerned, two come out. I end by reminding everyone that those who are in prison in our system are not there because they consume substances, drugs, light or heavy. Personal consumption in our system is totally decriminalized. The vast majority of drug addicts in prison are there either because they stole it, or because they took it, damaged it, or raped it, or because they're a drug dealer. We should, then, for once, have a discussion to determine whether, in addition to personal consumption, we want to decriminalize the drug dealing, for example in the case of the one who possessed four kilos of amazing substance and appealed to the Court claiming that four kilos (exactly 16,000 doses) would be a light thing, perhaps to be dealt in front of the schools. I believe that we will have to take this seriously in the future; in the meantime, I think it is right to vote on this decree-law, which gives a response, albeit partial, to a major problem: overcrowding in prisons. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u36	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, as you can see, what we will have the opportunity to begin in a few minutes' time in this House is a debate on the substance of the measure, which is important, and the content of the decree-law. On the other hand, I have not had the chance to perceive - and I apologise to the presenters of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling - the merit of the alleged inconstitutionality of the decree. On this subject I have not listened to arguments that contradict the content of the rule with our Constitutional Charter. Colleagues, we are intervening on a very sensitive subject, which puts us in the face of a clear and clear reality. The latest data of the DAP report that, on January 8, 2014, there is the presence of 62,400 prisoners in Italian prisons, against a regulatory capacity of 47,599 prisoners. I think that the obvious and obvious inconstitutionality is not in the decree, colleagues, but is in this condition. The prison condition is clearly unconstitutional. Therefore, I think that from this point of view the measure has all the characteristics to meet the requirements of necessity and urgency. On the substance of the issues that have been submitted, however, I found no contrast with articles of our Constitution. Colleagues, you know that we have a tight date ahead of us, which is coming: it is precisely the end of 28 May 2014. That is the date that was set before us by the European Court following the so-called Torreggiani judgment. Therefore, if Italy were not to follow up this judgment, it would be clearly in breach: we should pay very high sums; we would be an outlawed country; we would, in essence, have a dramatic condition, not only unconstitutional, but also a violation of European norms. The President of the Republic has reminded us of this responsibility, it has been clear; the Constitutional Court has reminded us of this responsibility: legislators, intervened. We are facing two roads. The first is a classic road, already crossed in our country, and it is that of amnesty or indult. We have checked what results the indult gives: it gives temporary, partial, contingent results, able to be reabsorbed in a few months, a year, a year and a half at most. On the other hand, it is necessary to intervene structurally, to put an end to this situation structurally, by putting in place a set of rules that can give us a final result compatible with our Constitution and can give an answer to both the European Court and our Constitutional Court. I have listened to the arguments that we will then discuss on the subject: I refer in particular to the last sentence of the Constitutional Court on drug addiction. I would like to reassure my fellow Members that, on this point too, the Constitutional Court will have to present the explanatory statement in a few weeks' time, and it is clear that we will have to deal with it, as it is our duty and as it is Parliament's duty to do: woe if Parliament does not deal with the reasons of the Court. Of course, we cannot intervene sooner: we must wait for the reasons of the Court. Therefore, this decree does not prejudice Parliament's ability to intervene later, also bearing in mind that there are several rules in this measure, and not only that which intervenes in order to give more therapeutic possibilities to drug addicts prisoners to be able to treat themselves in the recovery communities. The decree also intervenes to identify the small store and differentiate it from the real store, the one driven by crime, which really affects the market in a perverse way. This differentiation has been called for several times not only by operators and by those who have experience in the judicial field, but also by the Giostra Commission, which has carefully analysed this subject and asked us to intervene. When we have the reasons for the Court's ruling, Parliament will be aware of this and will have to intervene, and I do not see an insatiable conflict with the decree-law that is about to be converted. Another issue was posed by the 5 Star Movement and is a little curious. With regard to the special early release - a very sensitive and serious issue - we asked for time to better assess this rule and we did not exclude the possibility of further intervention, because it concerns a complex subject, which must be balanced between the need for structural intervention to affect overcrowding and the guarantee for citizens and victims of the crimes of the right right to security, and, with regard specifically to the victims of crime, the guarantee of effective justice in the application of the sentence. Well, the House intervened by excluding from the possibility of special early release prisoners subject to Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975. I remind everyone that this measure concerns the mob bosses and those inmates subject to measures for committing Mafia crimes, very serious crimes. But Article 4-a also extends to other equally serious crimes: violence, extortion, aggravated theft, in short, it intervenes on a set of rules that we believe, and that we must all believe, must be protected. The right to security is a new generation right to which Parliament and politics must devote time. I do not think that there is a contradiction with our Charter from this point of view, and I do not believe that the decree, corrected by the House on this very sensitive point, as we have been asked by the anti-Mafia judiciary, could undermine the principles of our Constitutional Charter. That is why I repeat that this is not a masked indult. Colleagues, the measure of early release is an alternative measure in the form of benefit in the execution of the sentence; the indult is an extinct cause of the sentence. They're two different figures, but that's not enough. Early release is applied at the request of the interested party and is renunable; the indult is independent, is automatically applied and is not renunable. Early release is a kind of prize: you behave well and are rewarded; if you behave badly, since it is not an automatic measure, the judge evaluates and you cannot use it. With indult you know that it is not so. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I say that even this problem does not affect the constitutionality of the decree-law under consideration, so I think that we can go on with its process, even if we were ready and willing to improve it, entering into the substance later. In the meantime, I call on you to reject the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1288 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1) and Senator Buccarella and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u38	The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, remodeled the timetable, which had already been approved on 12 February, in relation to the current position of the Government. During this week the examination of the decree-laws on the reduction of the prison population, on the "Destination Italy" plan, of the one with financial provisions for local authorities, infrastructure and disasters and on the extension of international missions, which will be discussed according to the order of expiration, without prejudice to the President's ability to prepare the agenda according to the progress of the relevant committees. The work of next week, which also includes an anti-meridian session on Tuesday 25 February, will only concern, until the current political-institutional phase is exceeded, the only decree-laws already foreseen in the current calendar, to which is added, if modified by the Chamber of Deputies, the one on extension terms, already approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u41	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in pointing out that it is absolutely unworthy of us in a parliamentary Republic not to talk about the serious crisis of government, as it is happening these days, but to talk about it exclusively outside and to stress that the President of the Council should have come here to gain confidence or to be distrusted, we note that in the coming days there will be four urgent decrees. This is what Parliament has been engulfing over the last 10 months. For this reason, to put some order and to give a constructive sense to the work that we are all doing here, we call on you to vote on the following timetable, with the hope, that it is also that of the Italians, that this farce will end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u42	Senator Santangelo, please moderate your language. You know that it is important in this House to respect the opinions of everyone, but also to use proper language.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u43	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologize. In observing this staging of the new Government, which is not new, I ask everyone, kindly and kindly, to vote on the following calendar. On 25 February, when this pseudo-crisis of government has already been resolved, we ask that the draft law No. 847, on anti-corruption, be called into question, and then, on Thursday 27 February, at 9 a.m., the bill No. 1148, on citizenship income. If, Madam President, it is not possible, in connection with the continuation of the pseudo-crisis, we will ask for a Conference of the Leaders to be convened on Monday next week, and to be exact on 24 February, to reorganise this timetable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u46	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I repeat what I said earlier at the Conference of Leaders. This obvious crisis of government had to pass, as has already been said, through the House and through the parliamentary vote. It seems to us, however, quite inappropriate that we should continue to work today and also tomorrow, when it is already known that tomorrow the newly appointed President of the Council, Renzi, will begin a whole series of consultations. Since all the groups, and therefore many of the senators present here today, will participate in these consultations, it seemed inappropriate for us to continue working both today and tomorrow. For this reason, we have asked for a shift in work, starting on Wednesday, with the suspension on tomorrow's day. This was not accepted. Even in view of the fact that there is a whole series of expired decrees, we have asked the Government to prioritize these expired decrees. We do not believe that everyone can be converted. We must convert the decree on urgent measures to protect the fundamental rights of prisoners and the controlled reduction of the prison population, which expires on 21 February, i.e. Friday; the decree on provisions of an indifferent financial nature aimed at guaranteeing the functionality of local authorities, which expires on 28 February; the decree-law on urgent provisions for economic development and the start of the Destinazione Italia plan, which expires on 21 February, in order to which we also accepted an anticipation as the second item on the agenda; finally, we have the decree on the extension of international missions. The decree on the repeal of public funding directed to political parties, which expires on 26 February, and the decree on a thousandprorogues, in the process of amending the Senate, which expires on 28 February, will then return from the House. We reaffirm the concept: we do not think that all these decrees can be converted. That is why we have asked the government for priority. I would point out that at the moment the Government is not even present in the Chamber, while I think that on such an important subject at least one representative of the Government should be present. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u47	The government representative had only left momentarily. He is now back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u48	BITONCI (LN-Aut). I repeat the concept: I understand this frenzy and this desire on the part of the new President of the Council in charge of Renzi to take the place of President Letta, but it is also true that this is an internal issue within the Democratic Party. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, with all these expired decrees, you should have thought first of all of the fact that this week there would be no temple to convert them. We will vote against this proposal to amend the timetable, and we ask for a day off for tomorrow, because we believe it is right that all the parliamentary groups should be able to take part in the meeting with the newly appointed President, Mr Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u51	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I agree with what my colleague from the League has just said. In fact, in the debate at the Conference of the Leaders, we have repeatedly urged Minister Franceschini to review which of the measures in question could be the subject of real deepening, running the risk rather than that, since three or four decrees expire this week and some others at the beginning of the next one, he would probably not have seen the light of any of them. The President of the Senate was also asked to consider the possibility of focusing the attention of the House on the measure Destinazione Italia, to which - I remind everyone - 463 amendments have been tabled and which will certainly lead us to a long debate. It is also true, however, that the effects it explains would have unpredictable consequences if it were not converted. We therefore call for priority to be given to this measure. Then in the event that it ends, even with a gentlemen's agreement between all the Groups, one could think of discussing only the significant amendments, after which one might also think of reasoning about this other. I would also like to point out that the measure we were preparing to examine up to now has not received the report of the Ministry of Economic Development. We are therefore not in a position to start voting on the amendments, because the 5th Commission still has to meet to examine the consistency of the amendments with the technical report, which, I repeat, until the meeting of the Conference of Leaders was not on the record. For these reasons, I call for the items on the agenda to be reversed and therefore, if possible, to discuss the Destinazione Italia measure immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u54	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, you will have to help me find the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which allows every senator to request a change in the timetable, because I would like to speak on the order of business, precisely on this subject. There are issues - probably all of them - which are of some urgency, but we do not believe that the long-standing request put forward by our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, namely to discuss the motion of distrust of the Minister Chancellors: this is where the whole thing is thrown into the corner and an entire Government is being destroyed, without even allowing it to enter into a specific argument, even relating to the calendarization of a motion of distrust. Madam President, since the Destinazione Italia decree also expires on the 21st coming, just like the one on the reduction of the prison population, I would ask you to reverse the two points on the agenda, because we think that the few rules contained in the first one have a true meaning, because perhaps they are going to buffer the moment of crisis that goes through the country; on the other hand, if someone, condemned for crimes even very serious, stays a few more days in prison nothing happens at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u57	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have indeed reached a particular point in the legislature: one government leaves and another, theoretically, should arrive. We are at an equally particular moment, because we have here in the Senate, in this imperfect bicameralism, a whole series of measures that should be approved as soon as possible, so that they do not expire, and we realize that some decrees are fundamental for so many categories. These are important decrees, which must be carried forward and, unfortunately, because of your inefficiency, we are not succeeding. We also realise that priority must be given to these measures. We have all understood very well that we cannot do everything in these few days that are missing from the decadence of the decrees. Our proposal is to anticipate, surely, the examination of the decree on international missions and that on the plan Destination Italy, and if there will be time, the examination of the measure empty prisons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u60	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, as my group colleagues have already said, we are convinced that it is absolutely impossible to work under these conditions, with a delegitimized government and a government that is not represented. The consultations will begin tomorrow and there will be a change of our reference figures at government level. We are convinced that it is absolutely necessary to reverse the timetable, as the Destinazione Italia plan, despite the shortcomings and obvious shortcomings it entails, is however a measure directed towards the productive sector, the enterprises and the families. We are therefore convinced, and we strongly ask, that priority should be given to this measure, which will offer answers, even if bland, to those outside the door right now are asking for attention, answers and a revival of the economy. The measure on international missions is certainly to be put to the second point; among other things, we have a very important issue, on which a Minister has spoken in this House, although we see that this issue is not resolved from the point of view of the answers for our Maròs who, unfortunately, have been in the hands of a foreign country for two years. We are convinced that you are aware of the inability to bring all these measures to the vote and that you must actually take note of the demands of these minorities and make a choice of priorities. Our priorities are certainly first of all the Destination Italy plan, our economic progress and then the international missions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u63	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to stress what I think we should take into account in changing this timetable. First of all, with regard to the issue of the so-called empty prisons, I see in this Chamber undersecretary Berretta (which I hope to review in the next government), who already has the suitcase with him: we do not know if he is coming or leaving. Beat apart, it is very difficult to deal with such an important issue, such as that of emptying prisons, staying in limbo, without having in fact a legitimate government. The proposal I would therefore like to make is to reverse the examination of the measures, arriving at a timetable in which there is at the last point, in the useful time that the incoming Government wants to give itself, emptying it prisons, which will create a devastating effect in the country, as we continue to say forever. It will certainly have to be examined after the issue of international missions, which will certainly find a wider and wider sharing within the House, and after the famous Destinazione Italia plan. This last measure, which expires on 21 February, is still being examined in the Commission, but I think there is a reasonable time to deal with it. But what I am asking, Madam President, with regard to the issue of empty prisons, is for you to speak to the new Executive about our need to deal with the subject, if possible, with the new Government. We are very interested, in fact, in knowing the thought of the President temporarily in charge, and that in any case he will be legitimized by you shortly, on the empty prisons. I therefore propose this change in the timetable and would ask you to take note of it. That's what I'm thinking. We hope that this will, underlined by us, for my part with regard to the opposition, will be taken into account by the new Government, which we know has particular sensitivity to this very serious problem. Renewing the hope that we will meet in this Chamber with Mr Berretta, Madam President, I repeat your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u66	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I think we need to think about the timetable. In particular, I believe it is necessary to analyse the measures contained in the proposal in our examination in order to establish the priority, looking at the commitments made and therefore at the burdens resulting from it at international level. From this point of view, the only constraint we find is within the decree-law on the extension of international missions, so that this should be the only measure under the scrutiny of our Assembly in order to give the answers requested and to maintain the obligations assumed in the international context. All the rest concerns important measures, but they concern political choices made by a previous government, so a new government that is about to enter must possibly confirm these choices, such guidelines. In fact, I believe that if there is to be a new characterization of the nascent Executive, as the President-in-Office of Renzi has said, about the guidelines concerning important policies from the economic point of view, the contents of the decree-laws to our examination do not go in that direction. But this is my opinion, which can certainly be refuted, as I don't think I have the truth in my pocket. However, we cannot begin to bring nightclubs to Athens or vessels to Samos, as the ancients said: we cannot do useless things, exercises that can then turn into obligations of new intervention to modify the contents of the decrees to our examination. Cautela recommends addressing only the subjects that belong to the strict necessary and on which there are - I repeat - obligations assumed at international level. Let's let everything else - and I think that's right - be the new Government to decide whether or not there can be a confirmation in the content, whether it needs to be revised or allowed to lapse. In fact, I believe that the decree that we are analyzing today may well be allowed to lapse, because I do not think it can be shared in a government that wants to define itself as innovator compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u69	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, in line with what my colleagues have said, I think we need a review of the timetable in order to enable the House to work immediately on the Target Italy measure. In fact, we believe that this year, in addition to measures such as the one on building abuse in Campania, it emptys prisons and saves Rome, in order to save this country from an economic crisis that is cutting our legs in the face of exports worldwide we should have stayed in this Chamber from morning to 8 am until midnight. We certainly do not consider this measure in line with what we would have done, so we can improve it, but we believe that it is the only one that deals with economic issues. I read in the newspapers that Father Pio's calendars and Brother Guess have also been modified. Madam President, I believe that this House can probably agree to amend this too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u72	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I too am speaking on the timetable, and I personally believe that the decree, which has just begun to be discussed, should not be the priority of this Parliament, deprived and orphaned of a government of which Minister Cancellieri was a member, which certainly, on the basis of the President of the Republic of Naples, has issued this not only measure with regard to the resolution of the problem of prison overpopulation. Well, we think... president. Proceed with your proposal, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). ...that, in the face of the problem of prison overpopulation, it is appropriate to wait for the establishment of the new Government and the new Minister of Justice, which we hope may tend to resolve the problem, perhaps strengthening prison building activity and bilateral agreements with the countries from which many of the foreigners who have committed crimes and who are detained in prisons come from. I propose, therefore, that we take the decree empty prisons to the third position and first examine the decree extending the missions. I remember that this decree is intended to finance the missions for the period January-March 2014. We have already passed the mark of this period and therefore I believe that, as an opportunity, this decree must be dealt with first, in reference to which certainly the debate on anti-piracy missions must also be addressed. After the decree to extend the international missions, surely it is much more important to treat, deepen and approve the decree Destinazione Italia, because it contains important measures: for example, we go to recover... president. Your request is clear, Senator Arrigoni. We are at the legitimate proposals for changing the timetable. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I am trying to explain why Destination Italia has priority after the decree on the extension of international missions. In this decree, for example, the rules on energy performance certificates, which had been introduced unwisely in June 2013, are to be abolished and the activity of energy efficiency is to be greatly weighed down. In addition, there are important rules regarding the clean-up and safety of SINs. Therefore, I also call for the decree to empty prisons to be examined later in the other two main decrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u75	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I too would like to ask for a change in the timetable. Since this week we are dealing with two decrees issued by an outgoing government, now replaced (at least as it would seem), it seems really inappropriate to go and comment on, discuss and approve decrees that we do not know if they correspond to the will of the new incoming government. I refer, in particular, to two decrees that have obvious criticalities: Destination Italy and emptying it prisons. I agree in part, with some changes, with the request of our Parent Company, Senator Santangelo, with which he asked for the calendarization of measures on citizenship income and anti-corruption rules. I ask for a change in the sense of including, prior to the examination of the citizenship income measure, draft law No 453, deposited on 9 May 2013. We're almost a year old, so maybe time could be ripe. This is a very simple draft law, which only provides for the abolition of an article on public funding for publishing. This may seem an indifferent subject, but in reality it is very important, because the abolition of this funding could draw the necessary resources for the approval of the next bill on citizenship income, given also the situation in which we find ourselves with Italian information. I therefore ask that, before the income of citizenship and the anti-corruption rules, draft law No 453 be drawn up by my signature for the abolition of public funding for publishing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u76	Colleagues, I would like to respond to Senators Santangelo, Bitonci and Divina, and then continue with the other interventions. Senator Santangelo, at the beginning of the session I informed the Assembly that, with the resignation of the Government, the activity of the Senate Assembly, in line with the general principles of the constitutional order, is limited to the carrying out of legislative activities related to constitutional deadlines, such as decrees-laws, or of compliance with their prerogatives. Analoga comunicazione was made by the President of the Senate at the Conference of the Leaders. Therefore, in the light of the principles referred to above, your request for consideration of other measures cannot be accepted. With respect to your request for the convening of a Conference of the Leaders, I inform you that this request will be forwarded immediately to the President of the Senate. Senator Bitonci, with respect to your request, I remind you that the conversion of decrees-laws is a constitutional fulfillment and, as has been observed during the Capigroup, some decrees-laws at our examination expire this week. The request, therefore, to suspend work tomorrow should have been made in the examination of incidental issues. It is therefore not acceptable at this stage. Divine Senator, the request for examination of motions of distrust is not admissible, because the Government is resigned. Now, since specific proposals have been made to amend the timetable by various senators, such as Senators Bruno, Bellot, Council, Arrigoni and Centinario, I think it is important to check, in relation to those who still want to speak, whether others join them, so that we can legitimately proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u79	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologise for this new speech, but let us go into the substance of your reply. What's constitutional? The use of the urgent decree as it has been for ten months in this part of Parliament? It is clear to the Constitutional Charter. No draft legislation was discussed in this Parliament, so I appeal to your institutional sensitivity to have a common sense request voted on. If it were not possible to examine the measures I mentioned between Tuesday 25 and Thursday 27 February, we are also going to the following week, but it is not possible that, at a time of crisis such as this, Parliament will be completely exonerated by acts, not by parliamentary initiative, but exclusively by government. And who knows where they came from? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, I'm gonna tell you this calmly. The President of the Republic, at this time, must take charge of an institutional jam that does not allow the work to be carried out as is planned and clearly written in the Constitution, unless there has been a constitutional change that allows this Parliament to discuss only urgent measures. Let us remember that, last week, we discussed the draft law on public funding for parties. That was urgent and the citizenship income bill wasn't? Madam President, what I am telling you is not our point of view: it is the voice that comes from outside, from the citizens. We include in the timetable the provision on citizenship income and anti-corruption law, with which you could recover 60 billion euros. We can't wait any longer! We can't wait any longer! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u80	Senator Santangelo, I don't want to repeat what you said. I am to continue. You have listened to what decree-law means by participating in the Conference of Leaders, what constitutionality means and everything that follows. Again, I wouldn't want to go back on it again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u82	I would ask you to stick to the proposals and join them, if there are any.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u83	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, Madam President. No doubt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we are certainly in an anomalous situation - much more than anomalous - and we are well aware of the things that you have very well defined in your communications at the beginning of this sitting and which you have now reiterated. Parliament has the right - in some respects the duty - to examine the urgent measures which are at its disposal. There are, however, several decrees-laws. Other Members have already spoken about the fact that there are too many of them, and I agree with that. You have to make choices and have priorities: you can't think of having everything. It is true that for those who have approved these measures at government level and for those who wish to approve them in this House, it would be desirable to approve them all. However, I wonder: didn't those who decided to do the government crisis know that there were laws in question? Do they take care of other things and not the laws that serve our country? Do they deal with other measures that the current Government, with the same majority of the Government that must be formed, considered of extraordinary necessity and urgency? We're not talking about things! Then, in the face of these laws of extraordinary necessity and urgency, it does not seem to me the right time to make a crisis of government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, please. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have a proposal to amend the timetable under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, sure. You don't happen to have the floor, Senator Malan. However, let us try to facilitate the work, remaining within the framework of the eligible proposals put forward. I want to know if she shares them. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I share the need to explain the proposal I am making. In my humble opinion, it happens a little too often in this House, whether you just say yes or no. The Senate is not a "votifice" or a "parerifice." There should be a debate: one must explain the reasons why a certain proposal is made and why it is supported or opposed. In the light of this, since it has been decided at all costs, for obvious cosmic needs, to make the government crisis and since - I repeat - several measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency are being examined, priority must be given to them. I propose a priority which - I believe - should be recognised by the very large part of this House: I refer to the decree-law on international missions. This is a typical argument that, in the presence of any majority - centre-right, centre-left or great coalition - has always found approval by a huge majority: never unanimity (which would also be worrying), but always a huge majority of senators. Therefore, I propose that we give time to the committees which must hesitate to take measures and opinions to be able to work and give priority to the measure on international missions. It is true that it is among the last decree-laws to expire (perhaps it is the last) but we also think of the national image, in addition to the international one, of which we always talk: we have thousands of soldiers on a mission abroad, and it seems to me that it is a suitable signal that, as the first thing you think of doing in a dramatic moment, that we did not want from the point of view of political life, you decide to guarantee the resources and the rules necessary to continue the international missions. In the meantime, the Commissions could be given the opportunity to work and, in particular, to the Budget Commission, which has all the measures to be examined in the consultative body (as well as in the contact person), to give the opinions we know how much they weigh (we know, in fact, what procedural weight, as well as substantial, the opinions of the Budget Commission have). It would therefore be a good thing to give priority to this measure, within the timetable that will be defined after the votes we will have on the various proposals. My proposal is to put the decree-law on international missions first and then give the Commissions the opportunity to complete their work on the other measures which it intends to bring to the House. After that, let's see: perhaps the crisis will have resolved, and in any case there will certainly be another calendar. I think it is important to give a signal of common sense: one cannot think of bringing home everything, as if there were no one, as if the situation of the government crisis had arisen because of a sort of astral conjunction for which no one has any responsibility. There are specific responsibilities that must be assumed by those who have them. In the context of this situation, we must take the most balanced decision possible, which is to give a minimum sense to the work done at these stages. Otherwise, measures are likely to lapse, even if - in my opinion - the decline of some would be a good thing, but it should not be in the eyes of those who voted in government, considering them of extraordinary necessity and urgency. If they are extraordinarily necessary and urgent, let us try to have an approach that allows us to carry on at least the really important ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u84	To take stock of the situation, the proposed amendments to the eligible timetable are those that have already been made by Senators Bruno, Bellot, Council, Centinario and Arrigoni, to which Senator Malan has now associated. Those are the contents. At the end of the next speeches, in which I call for those we have already defined amendments to be voted on, we can, again on the basis of Rule 55, third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, move only to the debate on the whole, one speaker per group, for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u87	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, it has already been said by others, so I do not want to repeat that we are in an objectively complicated situation. There are many decrees in expiration, there is no instrument to compress the times and therefore you have to make choices. I would like to propose that, among the various choices, priority be given to the measure on local authorities, which has a particular history. It was almost approved before Christmas holidays, but accidents have occurred and problems have arisen, so a large part of it has been, perhaps by forcing a little 'constitutional rules, in practice proposed again. I refer above all to the question on which the Senate has discussed for a long time and which concerns the city of Rome and the measures to save it. I would stress that Rome is not only the Capital of Italy which as such has so many honors but also so many burdens, but its operation serves the institutions that have its seat and to cope with the fact that here those who want to protest come to demonstrate democratically. Frankly, let that provision lapse, and I address the many senators who have experiences of local administrators and know well what they are talking about... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to conclude. The proposed amendment is clear. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). The proposal is to put the measure on local authorities first. That is the precise proposal. Among other things, I would stress that part of the debate we had before Christmas holidays could also speed up the debate on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u90	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I too wanted to include myself in this debate that has opened, stressing the need to use some common sense: everything can not be done right away and unfortunately time is running out, because we have to take into account that it will certainly be the debate on trust in the government during the week. Senator Carraro has emphasized the importance of the decree-law of 30 December 2013, n. 151, with provisions of an indifferent financial nature, aimed at guaranteeing the functionality of local authorities, the realization of measures in terms of infrastructure, transport and public works, as well as to allow interventions in favor of populations affected by natural disasters. With him I share the need to bring this matter to the House, but we are working on this decree-law in the Budget Committee, where there are 334... president. The proposal is clear and therefore supports the request for amendment made by Senator Carraro. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). With a variant, though. A total of 334 amendments were tabled to this Decree-Law. So if we were to discuss this decree-law tomorrow morning, this night we would have to choke on the debate that is taking place in the Commission on these amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's very clear. The House will decide on the vote. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Therefore, I think it is necessary to examine first the decree on international missions, on which the Commissions have already expressed their opinion, so it can be brought to the Chamber without any difficulty. Otherwise, we would not have time to examine the 334 amendments, all of which are very important: for example, there are some concerning the President. Senator Ceroni, your request is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u93	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business and the timetable. We are examining a decree-law without a government and without any data on it that - I agree with the statements of the President of the Palma Justice Commission - would have allowed us to judge the effect better. But, above all, we have at our examination a decree-law on which intervenes a pronunciation of unconstitutionality relative to the Giovanardi-Fini law (which we have advanced motions and amendments) without knowing exactly what effect they will have, not being still clear the final effect of the aforementioned decision. Therefore, in logic and common sense, in the perspective of improving the work on this decree, which we consider to be fallacious, and also in the perspective of... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you tell us what your proposal for an amendment is, please? AIROLA (M5S). I will be right there: I would propose that the draft law on the introduction of the crime of torture, which had already been dismissed by the Commission and had begun the journey in the Chamber, should be drawn up first and then blocked in view of the urgency of these decree-laws. So, that would be... president. Senator Airola, the Presidency has already spoken on this. It is not those who can be included in the priorities today. I would ask you to conclude, if you would like to add something, but I have already said that we had spoken. Your proposal is not acceptable, given the issues we have defined as constitutional priorities. Thank you very much. AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, do you have Senator Malan speaking for two hours, and do you say "Thank you very much" to me? [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u94	Senator Malan was making an acceptable proposal. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u97	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I am pleased that you are the chair today, as you are a member of the Defence Commission. Mr Bitonci has proposed to stop the work for two days in order to allow the former mayor of Florence to share the seats that are at stake during this period. So, I was associating with your request to give all the time to the former mayor... president. That is also true of you: the Presidency has already spoken on this request. So, it's not welcome. MARTON (M5S). So, Mr President, I would ask you to put the bill of law of Senator Amati, Act No. 615, which amends the code of the military order and, to follow, of course, the bill that introduces the income of citizenship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency has already expressed its views on this, too. Therefore, I would ask you to stick to the proposals that have already been put forward, those which are shared or not and which are eligible for the vote. MARTON (M5S). So, the Senate Act No. 615 is not admissible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u100	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would also like to address my colleagues in the majority, because the proposal that I shall be submitting in a moment should be interpreted in the sense of the common sense which, at least in part, is inspiring the work of the House of Deputies in these hours. It seems to me that the outgoing Government, at a particular moment such as this (and I leave aside the institutional or non-elegance with which we have lived these last hours), has found a way, in the conversion of the thousand-pronged decree, to identify convergences on some issues and allow the approval of the provision. It might seem instrumental to propose calendar alternatives, but I thought it was necessary, Madam President (and I wanted it to be understood, being this, I believe, the last speech before the debate resumed), a passage of common awareness. Perhaps it is better to think of identifying this week, which will also - I imagine - see the passage of confidence in the new Government (it is the only parliamentary passage we make, because the previous did not do so), a procedure that allows everyone to reach by 21 February, having us two measures in expiration, at least one of the two results, remaining calm. If we were to identify, therefore, not so much a sharing of importance, on whose evaluation we are divided, but at least a convergence on the decree Destinazione Italia, we would probably all be more serene in facing this week in which we will have special times. It is, of course, an appeal to the majority, so that they do not take up a position, which is that of the discussion of the decree-law emptied prisons, which will find our opposition - and probably not just ours - with times that certainly escape us. Madam President, I believe that this reasoning is useful to everyone. I do not go into the merit of constitutionalization of the fact that - as you well explained - decrees are among the things you can and should, perhaps, do. However, at a time of sharing such a difficult topic, perhaps, in the formation of a new Government, it would be better to face an easier measure, which is called Destination Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u101	At this point, we shall proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u103	Are you speaking on behalf of the Group? Bisinella (LN-Aut). Yeah, I'd like to make a quick contribution to this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already defined how we should proceed. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Always on the calendar, in order to what happened to the House... president. We decided that Senator Volpi's would be the last speech on the subject. Three proposals have been made to modify the eligible calendar: to anticipate the decree-law Destinazione Italia; to anticipate the decree-law on missions (there are various senators and senators who have signed this proposal); to anticipate the decree-law save Rome. As we said before, at this point we finish the interventions of the individual senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u104	[[Comments of Senator Bisinella]] Is your explanation of vote for the Group? Bisinella (LN-Aut). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So what's he doing? Bisinella (LN-Aut). On the proposal, which you have already rightly attributed to our Group, to anticipate either the decree-law Destinazione Italia or the one on missions, compared to what is currently under discussion. I would like to make a small contribution, which may be useful to the discussion in the presence of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, but I already said it would end with Senator Volpi. Senator Volpi himself said, intervening, that he knew that his would be the last surgery. If I make the exception with her, so do the others. At this point we continue. There's a first proposal... Bisinella (LN-Aut). It's just a proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, if it's not for the Group, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u107	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, first of all I would like to know why the many other proposals that have been tabled have been declared inadmissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As they were advanced, I read the reasons. The amendments to the eligible timetable are those which I have represented. There is a first proposal, which first advanced Senator Bruno, then supported by Senator Bellot and finally by Senator Council, to anticipate the decree-law Destinazione Italia. There is a second proposal, made by Senators Centinario, Arrigoni, Malan and Ceroni (we took note of those who associated), to anticipate the decree-law on missions. Finally, there is a third proposal, made by Senators Carraro and Ceroni, to anticipate the so-called save Rome. There are three proposals for amendments to the timetable, which are defined by a majority by the Conference of Leaders, which are admissible. It is a question of reasoning on the times of the decrees. Senator Malan, are you speaking on behalf of the Group? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes. It seemed to me that there were also proposals to give space to the Commissions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Those are not admissible, because they did not fall within the scope of changing the timetable. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of all three proposals declared admissible, stressing the need and urgency - and we who are opposed should not do so - to establish a feasible timetable, which must enable us to complete those measures which the House decides must have priority. As you know, the Presidency has very strong instruments to ensure that the deadlines are respected. However, it is also necessary for this House to contribute, otherwise we have a long-term timetable which is in danger of not being completed. We are therefore in danger of doing unnecessary work, just as the Commission and the House are in danger of having done useless work as regards the measures that come from it. The proposals set out priorities which take note of a situation which we certainly did not want. You can't say: "We do everything as if nothing had happened." If nothing were to happen, it was enough not to create a government crisis and move forward with the usual procedures, which also allow us to use instruments to shorten the debate, which, however, now, because of a clear question of logic, cannot be used. Therefore, the amendments will all have to be examined, and there will not be a request for confidence, because to whom would we give it: to the government that resigned? That is the same reason why you, Madam President, have rightly stated that you cannot include a motion of no confidence against a single member of the government in the timetable as a resigning party to the President-in-Office of the Council. For these reasons, the proposal to have a workable work programme is fully justified and would allow us, even during this period, despite the new facts that have been determined, to be able to do our job, which is not to approve as much as possible of measures or to reject as much as possible of amendments, but to approve the right measures, well-made and reasoned, and not with the mass rejection of amendments or perhaps with the adoption of some amendments with the expression of opinions with a not complete awareness that then provokes controversy in the newspapers, and then it is decided to make the measure lapse. Then we should stop saying that Parliament is wasting time: no, these are certain ways in which Parliament finds itself obliged to work which then lead to these problems. (at 19.27) (Follows MALAN). Therefore, those who have come to carry out certain measures (I refer, for example, to the first so-called Salva Roma decree) without there being adequate awareness of all the measures, rules and their consequences, have taken responsibility for a measure that has been shipwrecked, by the will of the Government and not for the inefficiency of the two branches of Parliament. In order to remedy this situation, something even worse has been done than to have this decree shipwrecked, that is, it has been repeated: the name has changed a bit and it has been divided into two, but some norms have been introduced that were already contained in the previous decree. This constitutes a repetition of the decree-law, which is a procedure which, as we know, has been declared illegitimate by the Constitutional Court since 1996. We must, therefore, try to work in a sensible way and not pursue the measures as they come. One of the measures on which we have indicated a priority - the Senators Carraro and Ceroni have done it very well - is the decree-law on local authorities which, in fact, contains many rules that repeat those contained in a decree that was then badly wrecked. Let us at least, since we are in the second step, examine it properly. I think it would also be necessary to prevent certain amendments, adopted by a large majority or even unanimously during the examination of the previous decree-law (essentially the same), from being rushed, or rather under the pretext of haste, not being examined. Consequently, the will of Parliament, of the Senate in particular, to express itself on certain proposals it has approved, would be betrayed. The Government then decided to shipwreck the measure and now hopes that certain proposals which, in its sovereignty, Parliament has approved, will not be completed. We would also like to avoid that we might be able to drag some decree-laws longer, compatible with the deadline that the Constitution prescribes, and then make a large amendment - on the day that there was a new government - full of paragraphs, of measures, which the Commission has never examined. We have already seen this in the law of stability, but we had not seen it before, because other governments such licenses were not granted. I would therefore like it to be clear that such licences should never be granted, since they have not been granted in the past: they should not have been granted to the Government which has recently resigned and should not be granted to what - apparently - will soon be settled. We would therefore like to maintain a seriousness in our work: the decree-law on local authorities is one of the priorities that we have pointed out, as well as the one with the plan Destination Italy, which brings measures on the most important topics for the relaunch of our productivity. Although, in our opinion, they are insufficient and not very well defined, we believe that we must examine them, improve where possible and move them forward. Finally, there is the measure on international missions. Let's give a clear signal. It would be unifying if we were to look more for the things that unite in this House; indeed, if we had looked more for the things that unite rather than the acts that divide (and what could divide more than the violation of the Rules of Procedure?), we would have made the country take several steps forward rather than backward, as it turns out someone likes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u110	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is on the order of business? We're so neat. MARTELLI (M5S). Evidently, I'm a Protestant and I always have to protest. First of all, I would like to point out that it is a contradiction to talk about ordinary administration when it comes to... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, an answer has already been given to this. Speak on the merits. MARTELLI (M5S). President, you don't even know what I'm going to say. There are two issues, the first of which is that these are urgent measures and, therefore, they are already extraordinary in themselves. The order of business on which I would like to speak is that there are three proposals for changing the timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, we are taking action on the schedule of proceedings, that is, on the order of business. MARTELLI (M5S). That's exactly what I'd like to talk about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, you speak for the Group? MARTELLI (M5S). No, I'm talking about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then you can't talk, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). You don't know what I mean. I am asking you to give each group the opportunity to intervene on each of the proposed amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Martelli, thank you. Who wants to speak on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u113	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, what can be seen from the three proposals? We will, of course, vote in favour of the three proposals, because basically the decree-law emptied prisons was put on schedule as an urgent, immediate and extraordinary decree, when we know and have widely discussed (and also the public has done so) the non-emergency character of something that is now chronic. Also, the decree was fired by a government that is no longer there. It is a decree that provides for the release of prisoners (a mini-indult, at the end), and a decree that also presents some criticalities related to the fact that a limitation in some rules of release has been introduced in the conversion. In particular, some prisoners already released will have to return. And we had asked the Constitutional Affairs Committee to help the Minister of the Interior in this matter, to understand what consequences it may have for the law enforcement agencies to have to bring back those who have been released on the basis of a decree that is then modified in the opposite direction. Therefore, the request we made was to anticipate the discussion of the decrees to which we associated, in particular that on the financial institutions (i.e. the half a thousandprorogations or the five hundred extensions), which was approved at the end of December, when the decree saved Rome, which had been withdrawn, was renewed. Of that decree, we would like the debate to be brought forward. And the same we also ask for the decree Destinazione Italia, because on that decree, to which we will oppose in all forms, because it contains measures that do not go towards a positive destination, but will certainly bring discomfort to this country (other than Destinazione Italia!), there is a need for a broad debate. Instead we will probably find ourselves, with this decree, after the approval of the decree emptys prisons to have again limited times to be able to amend, discuss, modify and maybe adjust the decree to bring it back to the House in a more beautiful form. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the three proposals which have been put forward to amend the timetable. [[Applause from Senator Bertorotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u116	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in fact, if we are to take a decision on the decrees, the Destinazione Italia decree deserves all our commitment and all our strength, partly because it has already been the subject of great debate and is expected at national level. We need to reverse the situation with regard to unemployment which is attacking our young people, where this policy of the outgoing Government has certainly not made sense, in fact, unemployment, especially youth and in the South. Let's say clearly that this outgoing Government is a Government that has been too interested in the North and very little in the South and those that are the problems of important regions such as the southern ones, that could be the reason for turning or the milestone to try to bring back employment and development in Italy. Let us not forget that we are faced with another decree, that of the refinancing of our missions abroad, expected by thousands and thousands of our military that are giving glory to Italy, even if from this point of view we must put an emphasis on our two marathons that are in India. If we do not find answers to this question on the part of the United Nations, it would be appropriate for that mission to be definanced. In fact, we cannot afford to be humiliated by Ban Ki-moon, since we have always behaved in a serious, honorable and concrete way in bringing Italy's prestige abroad, both for the missions desired by NATO and for those desired by the United Nations, especially in the humanitarian ones that affect people who really have to endure every day dictatorships, dangers, hunger and diseases, especially for young people. So these two assessments - as Mr Ceroni said earlier - I think they deserve our full commitment. We believe the measure saves Rome perhaps of secondary importance, convinced that this city must save itself, with its own energies, certainly not bringing to the mayor in office resources that instead should put with its own abilities (which are still not seen, and I do not think they will be seen in the near future). Therefore, as Mr Malan said on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, we will support this proposal to amend the timetable for the interest and interest of the South, Italy, young people, employment and the prestige of our military abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u119	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is understandable that the heads of colleagues are elsewhere, in the sense that we are experiencing one of the most pressing stages of recent periods, so the ability to focus on any kind of regulatory issue - as our Parent Company has rightly explained - does not correspond to the real need to understand how this issue will evolve. This is a confusing phase, because suddenly we attend first the conversation of a citizen mayor with the President of the Republic, then a subsequent party assembly that, with undoubtedly important numbers, defenes its Government and decides to indicate another Premier. Those who live in these areas, inside and outside the Palaces, perceive an anomaly, because, speaking with colleagues of that party, who defenestrated their own Government, we also perceive the opposition to this action: not so many parliamentarians, however, are part of that national leadership and it is likely that, when the current flows in a certain sense, there are few with the sacrificial vocation of salmon, which we know then what happens. This phase ends with an assignment, accepted albeit with reservations, but - as has been said by many - in complete contempt for the good practice of government for which a Minister or President of the Council resigns pass through the Chamber to argue and explain, after which the ordinary parliamentary debate takes place and what has to happen happens. If I, Mr President, were to say serene, as we normally say in the ordinary day, you would surely tremble the chair under your butt, because this new phase has gone wrong, with this new Government characterized by unscrupulousness never seen and words that do not correspond to the facts. We had read - not so many days ago - of the desire to pass through the elections in any case, before disrupting balances, and of a coalition government, to reassure what is now the former Premier, but then we saw that in fact nothing corresponds to the words. Coming to us, seriousness, and not unscrupulousness, would have liked to have taken stock of the situation: at what point are we? What measures are coming to an end? What are the emergencies and emergencies for the future hypothetical majority (not for the previous one that left this legacy)? We believe, President, that there are few reasons for common sense and seriousness and we also believe that the new President of the Council has made exclusively personalistic assessments: he does not care about the measures on the agenda and, probably, he does not even care about the country and not even about the future of his party. He made two reasonings with some element of insider trading; he had, perhaps before others, some news of the fact that, as the data that we have today, the revenues of the tax revenues were increasing and that the economic data was at the end of the descending curve and the macroeconomic data was marking, at least for the first months, a positive sign. On the basis of this, the new President-in-Office of the Council has probably made two more points: he could not miss an opportunity that would have come back in fourteen years' time, that is to say, to be able to manage the Italian semester at European level; an Italy that picks up a bit, with a big image, not on merit, but on a current drift. Therefore, managing Europe for the next six months, in which you can also go to Europe to ask for changes in rules, treaties, suspensions, moratories: "Enough with a phase of austerity". Let's get the economy off the ground. He would then return to Italy with great ovations, but also having a European stage. More: after the European stage, another very important year would begin... PRESIDENT. Divine Senator, I remind you that we are doing the speeches on the schedule of work. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). He is right, President, let's say that it is a premise that I am about to close, saying that then it would start 2015, the year of the Expo, with an even international visibility, to which our new Premier candidate probably could not resist. We would also like to reformulate our proposals, because President Fedeli has perhaps summed them up a little too much. The proposals for amendments were more detailed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll synthesize them later. DIVINE (LN-Aut). If we want to reverse the timetable, we think that the only real measure that would meet the requirements of necessity and urgency is that of missions. It is, in fact, a measure that is normally done in a race. The missions are in place, the resources have already been spent, so all we could do is approve it and, even if it were not converted, it would not change anything, because it should be said that the effects already produced and the expenditure carried out under the decree, which was essentially effective, must in any case be saved. However, we share Mr Malan's approach: it is a bit the image of the country that must at this point fulfil all its obligations and close the game and the commitments made with our presence on the international chessboard in the various areas of conflict or tension. As far as the others are concerned, I would like to ask: who will be a majority in the next Government and who will be a minority and opposition in the next Government? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] And the majority of the next government...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u120	Divine Senator, as I have already told you, everyone is free to use the time and words he wants, but at least we talk about the subject of our discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u121	DIVINE (LN-Aut). President, don't let the rumors influence you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm getting swayed by my ears. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I ask this because the decree made by the Letta Government represents what that Government considered urgent and indispensable: but are we sure that the new majority will have the same positions and the same program? Assuming that New Right Center adheres to the new majority, are we sure that the release is perfectly in agreement with the positions contained in the decree that we should examine today? Let us leave open all these questions, to which perhaps it is also impossible to answer, because even Alfano and the New Right Center are not sure that they will belong to the next majority. Coming to the point, if there is a real urgency-necessity on the missions and the image of the country is spent, so we are called to give answer and to convert it and in any case to consider it, on all the others we formulate great points of question. Therefore, Mr President, we would like to treat international missions as the first point, the decree-law Destinazione Italia as the second point, the financial issues local authorities and disasters to the third point and, only to the fourth point, the resolution of the prison overpopulation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u122	Colleagues, if there are no other speeches, we shall proceed to the vote. We proceed to the vote on the first proposal to amend the calendar, which wants the anticipation of the decree-law Destinazione Italia. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About what? ENDRIZZI (M5S). For an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, there is no explanation of vote in this matter. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Too bad! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to modify the calendar that wants the anticipation of the decree-law Destinazione Italia. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to anticipate the decree-law on international missions. It's not approved. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. In view of the outcome of the first two votes, the proposal put forward by Senator Crosio is precluded. I put to the vote the proposal to anticipate the decree-law local authorities, also known as decree save Rome. It's not approved. The timetable adopted by the Conference of Group Leaders by a majority and communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u123	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so. We await the release of colleagues to give Senator Lo Giudice a chance to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us take at least a few minutes to discuss the substance of the measure, after this deluge of minutes on how we are to conduct our work. The measure before us today - it has already been said - arrives in the Senate with such a timing that we only have little time to vote on it, and that is why we have not tabled any amendments. However, we want this decree to be approved by our vote, because it is the final act of a path that has produced, starting from the message to the Senate and to the House of the President of the Republic, a series of measures that can lead to a weakening of prison pressure, what constitutes a precise obligation. Italy had sixteen months to fulfil this obligation, and it has only three months before it so that this objective can be achieved. I am, of course, referring to the request of the European Court of Human Rights to respond, through a change in the management of criminal institutions, to the Torreggiani and others judgment. I would just like to point out a couple of points, which seem positive to me, and to highlight a critical issue that I hope will soon be remedied. The positive elements are, first of all, the measures concerning the definition of the autonomous crime of the possession and disposal of small drugs. The fact of having defined this crime as an autonomous case, rather than simply mitigating the provisions of Article 73 of the single text on drugs, may prevent the effect that has occurred in recent years, so even those who were guilty of minor facts related to drugs were framed in a case of crime with very high edittal penalties. The other point that I would like to stress is a possibility that is given to drug addicts. I remember that we are talking about a very high percentage: today in our prisons, out of 61,000 prisoners, 40% are in for drug law crimes only. Drug addicts are also given access to the treatment of social services more than twice, at the discretion of the magistrate, therefore, where the magistrate considers it appropriate to grant the drug addict a further chance of access to these treatments. I close with an element of criticality, which I hope will be healed soon, and which concerns the establishment of the figure of the National Guarantor of Prisoners. It was a measure expected by many, but in the way in which it was conceived within this decree (a Guarantor of governmental appointment), it does not respect those characteristics of autonomy and independence that a Guarantor of persons deprived of personal freedom should have. I therefore hope that, with this decree, this institution and this figure, Parliament will soon be able to return to this issue, in order to make that figure and that institution a real independent third guarantee institution, to protect the rights of prisoners independently of the policies of the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u125	Colleagues, I have received from the Time Groups that sometimes are inappropriate, because two or three minutes in general discussion frankly are not good. I did not want to take the floor on Mr Lo Giudice. For the next members to speak, two minutes of intervention seem inconsistent to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u126	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, according to Giancarlo Caselli, to delay the treatment of serious problems of justice indefinitely means letting them rot. It's the technique of taking or leaving. It is a technique that has the precise purpose of passing solutions otherwise indigestible, that otherwise would be rejected. This is the case for this measure emptys prisons, nicknamed "indultino" because of the abnormal penalty discount, of 75 days every 180 days of imprisonment, extended also to prisoners who have stained themselves with the worst crimes. The prison emergency has assumed over the years the characteristic of a continuous emergency, which reappears from year to year at least from 2008 and represents, also visually, the failure of politics, in particular the failure of the Ministers of Justice that have taken place until today. Of course, today, in addition to the prison emergency, we also have the sentence Torreggiani, but with your measure, which does not intervene on the causes of overcrowding, but only on its effects, in a year, maximum two, we will have a new sentence of condemnation is then another. Are we going to have to do a new "Indultino" next year? And then another one? What about another one the following year? In fact, from 1946 to today, 24 amnesties and 17 indults have been made in our country: on average, between one measure and the other, less than one every two years. So much for the certainty of punishment! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This measure of yours frustrates the deterrent effect of the penalties provided for in the code and humiliates the victims of the crimes, which are, in this way, raped twice, by the criminal subject and by the State, who renounces to prosecute the guilty. In Italy, the numerical relationship between prisoners and the population is not very different from the average of the European Union. We also have an excellent relationship between the total cube of the prison buildings and the size that could consequently be allocated to the prisoners. It is therefore paradoxical that we are faced with an emergency situation of overcrowding, which, moreover, would lead to the condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights. The logic of the emergency and the derogation to the respect of the rules on the contracts that this involves are a source of concern for us, moreover aggravated by the recent well-known exposed deposited in proxy relative to a hypothesis of crime related to the poor management of the contracts of the prison plan, a cake of 470 million euros certainly able to arouse appetites not always lawful. In conclusion, I recall that a significant responsibility for the prison emergency has precise names and surnames: Fini-Giovanardi and former Cirielli. Compared to the former, the recent, awaited ruling of the Constitutional Court could reconsider the position of thousands and thousands of prisoners. The implications are extremely important for the evaluation of this decree, and therefore the same basic requirements of necessity and urgency could be undermined. All this said, recalling the already many damages caused by this decree, we ask the Government and this majority to let it lapse in order not to cause further detriment to the already weak principle of legal certainty, too long forgotten in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u128	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u129	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary (which I welcome, because he has followed us in the Commission in this very long odyssey), as regards the decree-law in our examination, I consider its title emblematic, which recalls the fundamental rights of prisoners. In this regard, I would like to remind the House, those inside and outside of it, that prisoners have guaranteed rights, both from the Constitution and from the laws in force, starting with the rules on the penitentiary system. With regard to our Constitution, which all too often fills our mouths with alternate meanings, especially from colleagues of the Democratic Party or of the judiciary in general, it is worth remembering the protections provided exclusively for prisoners and those that affect the citizens of all. I refer to Article 13 (4) of the Constitution: It punishes all physical and moral violence against people who are still subject to restrictions of freedom. Those who speak to you are also against life imprisonment and have signed the radical referendums. Dante Alighieri, Florentine (in these days the city of Florence is current), said that they are among colors that are no longer alive. But I also quote the third paragraph of Article 27, Article 28 and the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution. This decree-law so important for the fundamental rights of prisoners intervenes on the protective custody and provides that the use of electronic bracelets in case of house arrests must constitute the rule! Instead of establishing that there must be no protective custody, a condition in which we find 40 percent of the prisoners and, of this, 50 percent are then judged by the innocent judges (they speak of 12,000 people). Those who make these mistakes do not pay; they do not have civil responsibility, as sovereign citizens have pointed out in referendums, who have pointed out that judges, like all other categories, must also be responsible for what they do in their irresponsibility (of course some). In my opinion, this prescription is very useful if it tends to have the effect of limiting the use of protective custody in prison thanks to the use of these technical tools able to allow the immediate physical identification of the subjects subjected to coercive measures by the judicial authority and, therefore, to free our carabinieri to do the checks on the territory, without being obliged to go continuously to see if the prisoners under house arrest are present or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u130	(IT) Mr President, Minister (or who for it), ladies and gentlemen, in a civilised nation, criminals must serve their sentences. The penalty is not a vengeance or an end in itself, but it must be an opportunity to carry out a re-education that brings the criminal person back to the condition of an honest citizen. The aim of justice must be rehabilitation, as provided for in Article 27 (3) of the Constitution, cited by Senator Barani. We must think about the recovery of the prisoner, studying and valorizing a path that brings together the world of associations, cooperatives, social centres for volunteering, the world of work and institutions, to recreate dignity and esteem in prisoners and to offer them the hope of a different life. A young man recovered, that is, extracted from his discomfort and from his disadvantaged position and who will be offered the opportunity to integrate and enter the world of work, will certainly be one less criminal. He will be able to self-determine, produce and pay taxes, instead of being a cost to society, and in many cases he will be able to generate wealth and well-being for society and for himself. Learning, the exaltation of talent, access to teaching tools and the support of young people from the end of compulsory schooling are not only the precise and moral tasks of every civil society, but also an effective economic investment and the reduction of a future economic cost to the community. Investing in this means reducing the costs of a developing society and reducing the costs of justice and a collapsed prison system. According to a study carried out by the Department of Prison Police, the monthly cost of an inmate in an Italian prison is about 3.511 euros per month: an important figure, which must induce the state and society to start investing in prevention (not only in the prevention of crimes, but in the prevention of criminality). It is not enough to empty the prisons: we invest in order not to fill them! We are aware, however, that this decree-law does not arise from the need to solve the prison problem in Italy, but from the need not to pay fines to Europe, our dear stepmother. The European Court of Human Rights, with the so-called Torreggiani ruling, condemned our country for the conditions under which prisoners are forced to live, setting the deadline to remedy in May 2014. The capacity of our prisons is beyond the limit. In some cases there are six prisoners in a cell, without the space necessary to stand at the same time, without the conditions to live dignifiedly. This has led in recent years to dramatic episodes of suicide (we speak of 1,128 people from 1990 to 2011 in Italy), accompanied by cases of attempted suicide, self-harm and numerous protests. Seven prisoners, however, have submitted a request for moral damages to the European Court, which has sentenced Italy to pay 100 000 euros to each of them. Just seven? Yes, it is a good thing that the remaining prison population does not know the laws, does not know the language and does not ask this question, otherwise in a short time the Italian State would be in economic collapse for the fines imposed by the European Court on Italy. So, once again, Europe wands us and only then we run for cover. But how? The decree in question is only a buffer to what is the dramatic Italian prison situation that, once again, is not resolved, even if, in temporal order, this is the fourth decree presented in the last three years on the subject. The problem is not solved because once again it is not addressed, if not marginally, the central hub of the rehabilitation of the prisoner. In the decree in question, there is no provision for and enhancement of social and work rehabilitation and rehabilitation programmes, which are fundamental to ensuring a functioning justice. Finally, last but not least, I would like to address a thought to the prison police, whose staff is forced to share precarious sanitary conditions, at constant risk of their integrity and security, their life sentences even without having committed crimes, dragged also, by a State often absent, in the same group of guardians. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Caliendo.]] Mr President, I would ask for permission to give an annex to my speech for publication in today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u131	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u132	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u133	Mr President, Senators, Mr Senators, once again this House is faced with the debate on a measure aimed essentially at reducing the prison population. And for the umpteenth time he finds himself having to evaluate a partial, disorganic, inadequate measure. To these even less flattering adjectives I inevitably find myself forced to add others: the measure in question is in fact also irrational, inconsistent and unconstitutional. It is a text which, despite the changes made in the Commission in the Chamber of Deputies, still maintains different profiles of inadequacy with respect to the general layout of our criminal legislation. Before we go into the substance of the content, however, I cannot fail to mention some fundamental aspects relating to the process of conversion and the lack of respect for parliamentary prerogatives. All the interventions carried out during the works - both in the Chamber and in the Senate - were agreed on the correction of some aspects that due to governmental inadequacy were instead present in the original version of the decree. I am, of course, referring to the possibility - including for serious crimes and even for very serious crimes - of access to the destructive measures envisaged. In the same way, the assessment of specific aspects - even of constitutional legitimacy - of certain points in the text under discussion today is negative and dismissed by the House of Deputies. Among these, they would certainly have deserved more attention on issues relating to the applicability of the precautionary measure in prison for children accused of drug-related crimes and the extension of the substitution expulsion for immigrants. Even in this case it has been said that the tight times to complete the process of conversion did not allow further deepening. I would like to point out that this decree was presented on 23 December. There is a sort of habit of presenting decrees in some periods: this at our examination on 23 December, the decree value culture before the summer holidays, 8 August. I wonder why: how can we fail to regard such a circumstance as an absolute disrespect for parliamentary prerogatives? It is appropriate to point out that this measure arises from the need to avoid the application of the sanctions provided for by the European Court of Human Rights following the judgment of Torreggiani, a judgment of 8 January 2013: a judgment of 13 months ago. These practices therefore discredit the quality of all legislative work, because they end up making Parliament's speeches useless. On the other hand, I must say that the current government crisis, which has been carried out completely in the party rooms, and indeed in a party, shows the level of consideration for Parliament. How many times in recent months have we had to vote, because in due course, wrong, incomplete measures and with obvious inaccuracies? How many times? We cannot continue to argue that errors will then be remedied by successive measures, because this causes confusion and insecurity at all levels, and it is unacceptable for a serious legislator. Let's get to the bottom of this. Those who think that spot interventions can solve the problems of our judicial system and make a positive contribution to the long-standing issue of prison overcrowding do not deal with history and do not deal with reality. Instead, once again, it was decided to put a patch that - as they say and often happens - is worse than the hole. An illusory intent that may have effects for a few weeks on prison overcrowding, but at the high price of infinitely prolonging the negative consequences of such choices on the safety, the certainty of punishment and the quality of life of millions of citizens. Absolutely questionable are also references to crimes related to the sale and sale of drugs. The introduction of the case of "light entities" and therefore the substantial relief of penalties according to the quality and quantity of substances, is nothing more than a further step towards a society in which those who sell, who sell death, can be considered more and more legitimate to do so. Among other things, what should we say about the recent Constitutional Court ruling on the point, whose effects should lead to the suspension of the legislation in this regard, as Senator Caliendo has widely argued? In the same direction, the double limit for the assignment of drug addicts to therapeutic activities should also be abolished. Here too, what's the signal to the country? It seems clear to me: continue to do drugs, continue to commit crimes, so, at worst, you can always avoid prison with a period in community. The former arrangement was fully in line with the provisions of Article 27 of the Constitution in favour of a sentence which must aim at the re-education of the condemned. Today, this rule risks being distorted to a very different extent, under the banner of a façade goodism that in criminal matters is the most counterproductive there can be for the real interests of society and citizens. A very similar discourse concerns the scope of special early deliverance. Not only is it excessive and unjustified to raise from 45 to 75 days of penalty discount for each semester, but it is truly disappointing to choose not to bring this advantage back to effective good conduct, nor even to active participation in rehabilitation programmes. The special early release is not foreseen, in fact, for the periods in which the sentenced have been admitted to custody or detention at home, demonstrating how the irrationality of this provision is really manifest. All this when, in reality, the very decision of the European Court, which refers to a systemic problem resulting from a chronic malfunction of the Italian penitentiary system, should be read in a completely different direction, starting - this is my wish - from a reform of the protective custody, this yes, no longer postponed, involving almost 40% of the prison population. But a deafening silence has fallen on this point. There is, then, an overbearing consideration: a law less than a series of confused, contradictory and pernicious laws for the safety of citizens. [[Senator Caliendo's applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u134	Once the time has been evaluated, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u137	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, let us make it as if everything were normal, but this Italian pantomime, this absurd theater, the thing that really struck me was to see a convicted person for tax fraud at the Colle; that is, a convicted person for a serious act against the public administration ascend from Napolitano for consultations. But let's try to understand what a tax evader is and get out of the logic of this partycracy, which is said to be innovative without being innovative, and from the distorted logics of a President of the Republic who is said to protect the nation without being so, who they think can fly over a given of such gravity. The effects of tax evasion are economically and ethically reprehensible and a State that is such has a duty to distance itself and repudiate those who have been convicted of such a crime. What primary effects? There is a reduction in government revenue and resources for the community; there is a deterioration in the quality of public services; there is a reduction in the funds available to finance economic growth; there is an increase in the level of taxation and tax burden on taxpayers; there are situations of unfair competition between economic operators; the State must limit resources on public expenditure, such as health, education and welfare, which tends to burden the less well-off. But, as we have said, Berlusconi has been convicted of tax fraud, which is a much more serious variant of evasion and therefore punished much more severely, including criminal sanctions, given its level of extreme social danger. But if the already serious thing, that Berlusconi is a man who acted against the Italian State, bringing ethical and economic damage to all Italians, should not be enough (but should suffice in an ethical and civil and egalitarian country), we know that our man resurrected from the left is also a criminal under trial for the sale of senators in Naples and was sentenced to first degree to seven years for concussion and child prostitution. For the magistrates of Milan the former Premier was the director of the bunga bunga, he was aware that the girl was underage and for this reason he called the Milan police station. And it absolutely does not stand the political justification that wants him to represent a large electorate. Firstly, because the electorate voted it before the final sentence and therefore unaware of the crime. Secondly, because also Fr Vito Cascio Ferro, for example, the first recognized leader of the Sicilian Mafia in the early twentieth century, was representative of a large part of the Italians, but never, I believe, a President of the Republic or a party secretary would have felt the need to consult him on the great reforms or the formation of a new government. Or am I wrong? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u140	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens (especially those of Viareggio), we hope so much that we have misunderstood, even if we are now at comics, so it is better to clarify. We learn from the press that, in the fantomatic totominister Renziano, also appears the name of Mauro Moretti as possible Minister. Even Goldrake couldn't be more science fiction. Mauro Moretti, that of the Railways, yes, that made knight of the work by President Napolitano just a year after the massacre of Viareggio: 32 dead, 32 people burned alive, 32 victims guilty only of living near the railways of the State. As the 5 Star Movement, today we want to give voice to Mrs. Daniela Rombi, president of the family association of the victims of the massacre, who writes: "Stamani, returning from the cemetery, I learned the news that Renzi might want on team Mauro Moretti. We family couldn't miss another hammer between head and neck, and today it's up to Renzi to give it to us! Yet with Matteo Renzi we met in Viareggio and Florence, on the occasion of the last national event of "Libera". On both occasions he personally expressed his closeness to our pain by encouraging us to move forward and not to give up. Renzi, don't do this, immediately deny this aberrant hypothesis! The assumption that a defendant for the death of 32 people burned alive becomes Minister. And let's not forget the other charges and the 47 workers who died on the tracks due to lack of security from 2007 to today. But how do you think that? Is this a carnival joke? No, it's a nightmare. Dear Matteo Renzi, don't even think about doing this. It is so offensive to us but especially to our dead children that it is unthinkable. This and more writes President Daniela Rombi. I would add that the State had a moral duty to form a civil part of the massacre process and did not, and I already announce that we are preparing a motion to revoke the cavalry at Moretti. Mr President, I still have that red sky in my eyes on the night of 29 June 2009, because I live a few kilometres from Viareggio. From home I saw that red sky and immediately knew that the unlikely had happened. If to date someone does not have the conscience to take a step back, it means that in this nation there is no more dignity, no more piety, no more justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u143	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to point out and ask for explanations on an issue concerning the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), which also deals with religious, ethnic, social, cultural and equal opportunities discrimination. Deputy Minister Guerra sent a demerit note for information material aimed at updating teachers on education of diversity in schools. This material was considered to be exploitable by the newspaper "Avvenire" as well as by some senators of the New Right Centre, who asked Deputy Minister Guerra to intervene against the UNAR. In the meantime, given that serious speculation on civil rights is taking place on this matter, it does not appear that this UNAR action was not authorised, first for a circular of 4 October of the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, and secondly for a letter of 26 July 2013 from the Presidency of the Council (which I officially request to provide), signed by Gilda Siniscalchi, who would approve this operation. Evidently Deputy Minister Guerra is lying, and in our opinion she is probably doing so for a make-up and restyling operation, in view of the agreements with the New Right Center. We regret that the matter of civil rights obviously becomes an exchange commodity for the formation of a new government. We are also sorry that we hear that Deputy Minister Guerra had also taken important positions on LGBT rights, such as gay marriage. Then we do not understand why, if you expose yourself with these issues, then come to make notes of demerit to an office that up to now has always done with great competence its work, giving a great contribution to cultural growth to this country, which unfortunately needs it very much. Among other things, if, as is true, UNAR is criticized for dealing with issues that go beyond racial issues, then we will see to it that we take away all issues, including religious issues as well as cultural ones, as well as gender issues and equal opportunities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u144	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-193.ana.u145	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday, February 18, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.29 a.m.
