ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 925, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Ferranti and others, Costa, 110, 111, 113 and 666. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group. Senator Bitonci points out that he wants to intervene.]] BITONCI (LN-Aut). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, please don't do this: you are asking for the floor correctly as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, quietly. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u9	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u11	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we cannot fail to speak on the order of business with a reversal of this kind. That is incredible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But that was not the case yesterday: you know it because you were there. BITONCI (LN-Aut). That's incredible! You must convene the Conference of Leaders! I would ask you to convene the Conference of Leaders immediately to discuss the timetable. Yesterday we began to examine a measure in this House; now that measure is suspended and the examination of the bill on non-convict prison sentences is resumed. There is no such thing, Mr President, there is no such thing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bitonci, there has been no change in the timetable of work, as all those who were present in this House yesterday have been able to verify. We are continuing, as was said yesterday, the timetable for the work planned. There is no reversal and we have moved on in this way. BITONCI (LN-Aut). We are in the middle of the general discussion of a measure, No 580. We have suspended the discussion of the previous, empty prisons. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right, though. We haven't changed the order of business. BITONCI (LN-Aut). Well, then we want to see the rapporteur's medical certificate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Sorry, but we had evidence of Senator Casson's state of health directly in this House yesterday, and you all spoke to say that it was okay to do so. Please, then, everything follows what was decided yesterday. BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as a member of the Conference of Leaders, I call for it to be convened, because there has been a reversal of the agenda. Summon the Conference of Leaders immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u12	There has been no reversal of the agenda: there is the Minutes and the Reports to testify, so you can verify. Senator Casson, you have the floor for the reply. CASSON, Rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. [[Protests of Senator Crosio, who descends from his place to the hemicycle to speak with the Presidency.]] Please, Senator Crosio, do you mind going back to your place and asking for the floor from there like everyone else? Please return to your place and do as everyone else does: take the floor from there. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PI groups and Senator Zin. Protests from the hemicycle of Senator Volpi]] Senator Volpi, please return to your place, do as we all do, and we'll discuss.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u15	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, last night, at 7.50 p.m., I had to speak in general debate. From the offices of the Presidency I was told that the sitting would be taken off and that I would speak this morning at 9.30 a.m. in general debate. I was told by the offices of the Presidency, an official came. Ask the officials: that's what happened. BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Rules of Procedure must also be respected for oppositions!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u16	Look, we're all respectful of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it. Last night, at the end of the House's work, those who chaired the House read the agenda, and the agenda is what I have read again here this morning. I ask you as a group to check the report, but this is it. That is the formal act of the President of this House. Thank you. [[Senator Crosio's protests.]] However, we cannot go on like this. There is a verification of the acts that can be done. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I'm not crazy! [[Senator Crosio's protests.]] I gave you the floor, Senator Crosio, to tell me what you had to say; you can now check with the Minutes and the Minutes of the proceedings of this House. Please, Senator. Senator Casson has the right to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u17	Madam President, I have listened carefully and carefully to all the speeches that were made yesterday, and I have to say that basically... COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Voice! Voice! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u18	Look, colleagues, when you don't even respect a person's physical condition, it's not okay! [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group]] I ask you to sit down, ladies and gentlemen, to listen and to be particularly silent, so that Senator Casson can make his reply. [[Senator Volpi's protests.]] Senator Volpi, please. You have the floor, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u19	As I said, Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the speeches, from which the substantial sharing of the text that has been presented by the Justice Commission to the Senate House has emerged. The distinctions that had been found in the Commission have been confirmed in this House, with particular reference to two points: one on immigration and the other on the cultivation of drugs. We have noted with satisfaction that the main parts of the measure, those concerning non-convict prison sentences, the reform of the system of penalties and decriminalization, have found a broad sharing, taking into account the serious difficulties in the criminal procedural system and the shameful prison situation. As far as the second critical point, the one on drugs, is concerned, I have been informed informally that the relevant amendments will be withdrawn, and therefore the problem will not be proposed. On the other hand, on the issue of immigration, we believe that we must confirm the approach we have followed and, as we proceed to the examination of the individual amendments, we will be able to better detail our comments. In conclusion, with regard to the draft law under consideration, it is reiterated that it is considered a leap of civilization and culture towards a modern and democratic management of our system and the prison situation. This is the first step and certainly not the panacea. Other substantive, procedural and legal measures will have to follow in order to complete the reform of the criminal system. [[The Senators of the League leave the Chamber.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Now a mess is gonna happen!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u20	I call the representative of the Government. (Brusio). I beg the senators to be quiet. FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Madam President, the government means... President. Wait a minute, Mr. Undersecretary. I beg all senators to sit at their desks. (Senator Crosio is threateningly approaching the benches of the PI Group. Exchange of apostrophes by Senators Di Maggio and Olivero with Senator Crosio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Anyone who wants to leave the Chamber will do so quickly. (Exchange of apostrophes between some senators of the LN-Aut Group and the PI Group. Parliamentary assistants are involved). I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.47 a.m. and resumed at 9.49 a.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work. I call the representative of the Government to whom I apologise for interrupting earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u21	Of course, Madam President. As I said, the Government wants to acknowledge the important work done by the Justice Commission and thank its President, Senator Nitto Palma, all the members and rapporteurs for the work that has been done in following and carrying out this important bill, which, as has been said, brings together five draft laws and introduces some very important innovations to address (as well as taking up the message of the President of the Republic) the problem of prison overcrowding by introducing a new type of punishment. This is an important turning point because, together with the provision already passed on to the Senate on custody in prison, one wants to play in advance, and also get used to the judge of cognition, and not only the magistrate of surveillance, to impose a new type of penalty. It is important to make it clear that the entire framework of criminal sanctions is being redefined. The Senate has introduced some important news. In the meantime, he has foreseen and made mandatory the imposition of imprisonment and house arrest for crimes up to three years. This is also a very important element, because, for crimes punished with minor penalties, and in any case crimes for which the suspended sentence or alternative measures were often granted (if under two years old), the penalty for imprisonment is avoided. In addition, he leaves discretion to the judge for crimes punished with an abstract sentence ranging from three to five years. Therefore, it is not an automatic and general possibility, but the choice to impose this type of sanction is put back to the discretion of the judge. These are very, very important innovations introduced by the Senate in relation to the text of the Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, with this measure, Italy adapts itself to what Europe has been asking us for for years with regard to proceedings against those who are not available. The determinations made in this regard are very important because they will save not only from the economic point of view, but also the judicial offices will be able to concentrate on the proceedings against persons available and instead suspend those against the irretrievable. The focus is on the re-educational, remedial function of the sentence (another important novelty) as regards not only the testing, but also the work of public utility, with which we can meet the needs recognized in our Constitution, in Article 27, as regards the re-educational function, while guaranteeing the right to security, the importance of which in many interventions of the illustrious senators during this debate has been rightly emphasized. This measure really seeks to achieve a balance between the guarantee of safety and the exercise of the re-educational function of the sentence. I want to repeat and stress that with this type of sanctions there is no impunity: the subject, in fact, following a criminal trial, if held responsible, is condemned, and a new type of sanction is applied to him, with the limits I have just pointed out. Therefore, it is not impunity, but rather the certainty of punishment and a new type of punishment. Another important factor that for years both the doctrine that all scholars asked for found a consideration is the tenuity of the fact. With reference to the tenuity of the fact and the non-usuality of the behavior we introduce the institute of non-penalty, in order to graduate and let the exercise of the prosecution (as we know, from us the principle of the obligatory of the prosecution) be there for facts of a more important importance. Therefore, for facts of tenuity and, in any case, of non-usuality there is the possibility, for those crimes punished with financial penalty or with imprisonment not exceeding five years, to resort, precisely, to the institution of non-perpetuality. The final point is that of transforming into administrative offences. The Government will, however, express a number of views in favour of some of the amendments tabled, with a view to improving the text. For many years there has been talk of decriminalization, and therefore of aiming at a type of administrative sanction considering some cases as administrative illegal. Among other things, the text provides for exclusions for certain types of crime: I am thinking of the environment (just yesterday, the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies fired a measure on environmental crimes, in a way consistent with all parliamentary and legislative activity). The Government draws attention to the importance of the measure under consideration and, in a collaborative and constructive way, will seek to express a favourable opinion on those improved amendments, which can be agreed by the whole Assembly. This is a very important measure, on which I hope we can achieve a very large majority, because it can bring a turning point and allow us to act on several fronts. This bill aims to punish and re-educate and, at the same time, to ensure security. I do not, therefore, agree with anyone who claims that impunity or other kinds of solutions are being made in this world. It is a new culture in the sanctioning system, which we were asked for so much and which we are now able to achieve. As for decriminalization, by reading the various parliamentary acts produced also in this legislature, I have verified that, both the House and the Senate, it has long been required to decriminalize. Today we have this possibility, which I hope will be collected by everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u24	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, at yesterday's sitting I tried to speak, but President Gasparri felt that he would not let me go on. The intervention that I intended to make yesterday and which I want to make today is a clarification of the legal framework within which we are moving, with reference to one of the points which is the subject of the vast majority of the speeches made in this House, namely the one concerning immigration. I would remind the entire Assembly that, with reference to clandestine entrances, the current situation of the legislation is as follows: at the first clandestine entry, pecuniary sanction; clandestine entry with notice of exit from the national territory with prescriptions; violation of the prescriptions: pecuniary penalty; non-compliance with the order to leave the national territory: pecuniary penalty; accompaniment of the clandestine person outside the national territory; in case of re-entry of this citizen, prison sentence from one to four years. This is the regulatory framework within which we are moving; that is to say that the legislator felt that he had to punish only the re-entry into the national territory of a person accompanied at the border by order of the police authority. Having said that, in order to clarify the regulatory framework, in the light of the speeches made in this House (this is what we are talking about), I would like to stress that, by reading both the Commission's text and the amendments tabled, depending on how this House and therefore clearly its majority will behave, we have solutions to the various problems. Let's start at the beginning. Excuse me, Mr President, but that is the most sensitive point of this measure. In Article 2 (2) of the text dismissed by the Commission, since it is decriminalisation, all offences for which the legislator has provided for a pecuniary penalty, both the fine and the fine, with a safeguard clause, are to be transformed into an administrative offence, which provides that this automatic transformation into an administrative offence of criminal penalties does not occur with regard to certain matters which are specifically indicated in the text. Among these there is no question of immigration, which is equivalent to saying that, according to Article 2 (2) (a) of the measure adopted in the Commission, the three cases punished with financial penalty in the field of immigration are transformed into administrative offences. There is also an amendment, on 2,206, by Senator Stefani, which also calls for the integration of immigration, which is to say that, if this amendment were ever to be adopted, the three cases punished with the financial penalty would not turn into an administrative offence. It is clearly a political decision, which is put to the majority of the House. In Article 2 (3) (b), there is an amendment approved in the Commission, which provides for the repeal of the offence provided for in Article 10- bis of the single text of the provisions concerning the regulation of immigration, that is, the crime of illegal entry, so let's call it, in the national territory, without touching the other two figures provided for in Article 14 of the decree on immigration, also punished with financial penalty. This provision is essentially ultronea, because it is already included in the transformation into administrative offences referred to in Article 2, paragraph 2. Anyway, there is. From this point of view too, there is an amendment by Senator Stefani, on 2.210, calling for the repeal of this point (b) of paragraph 3 of Article 2. Should this amendment ever be approved, but should it remain alive as is paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the text, this repeal would not have any substantial effect, because the transformation into an administrative offence of the three figures of illegal immigration punished with pecuniary penalty would take place precisely in accordance with Article 2 (2). This is basically the situation at the point of law, considering the various amendments. If I can allow myself, and I do so without any political assessment, I would point out that, except for maintaining the status quo, if ever we wanted to intervene on the point, it would still be necessary, from my point of view, to add delegation. In fact, since there are many references in the expulsion procedure to the judicial passages provided for in Articles 10-a and 13-a, however, there should be a possibility for the delegated legislator to reformulate the rules, evidently maintaining the various presidios of expulsions, in the light of the modification that should arise as a result of the transformation into administrative unlawful. Thank you, Madam President, but I considered this absolutely necessary for the clarity of the situation and for the vote of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u26	In accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the Economic Planning Commission, after examining the unified text in title, expresses, as far as it is competent, a non-obstacle opinion conditional on the replacement of the words from: "are transmitted" to "by subject matter," with the following words: "they are transmitted to the Chambers, accompanied by a technical report, for the purpose of expressing opinions by the Commissions responsible for matters and financial profiles" and also observing that, with regard to Article 1, which, in points (b) and (c) of paragraph 1, provides for an extension of the scope of domestic detention, it is noted that the subposition of the legislative decree schemes to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, also for the financial profiles, even if corrected on the level of the rules laid down by the Law of Accounting, does not allow the parliamentary body to express its opinion in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. As regards the amendments, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to proposals 1.255, 3.235, 1.264, 8.0.200, 8.0.201, 8.0.202 and 8.0.203. The opinion is of simple opposition to proposal 3.233. On the remaining amendments, the opinion is of no importance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u27	We now come to the examination of the articles of draft law No 925, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u30	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, President Palma has rightly highlighted the problems. The rapporteur cannot table amendments that have not been adopted in the Commission because it has not been discussed, but it is necessary, if that crime is transformed into an administrative offence, to link the rules on expulsion. If the Government does not provide it, we must dissolve this node, otherwise we cannot find the technical regulatory moment that allows the formulation, in one and the other hypothesis. Eliminated the crime of illegality and transformed into an administrative offence, there is a need for rules or guidance for the delegated legislator. This is the situation, so we have to untie this knot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Caliendo. I would remind you that we are in the process of illustrating the amendments tabled to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that Amendment No 1,204 is withdrawn, which I did not have time to communicate to the Presidency's offices. On the merits of the intervention of Senator Caliendo and President Palma, I think I can say, on behalf of the Group I represent, that the point of the so-called crime of clandestineness and the supplementary proposal that, we understand, the Government has in mind to do (and in any case the general framework of the discipline, based on the remarks made by the colleagues who have preceded me) - that is, what remains in the matter of administrative illicecy relative to the non-EU citizen not provided with valid residence permit - are issues that do not arise, given the obvious existence of the entire plant of the so-called Bossi-Fini law (in the species, Article 13, which provides and regulates the expulsion procedures). Therefore, the implicit administrative illice of the permanence of the non-EU foreigner without any evidence is already in our order and - of course - is not affected by the eventual repeal of the crime. And so also for every other type of conduct, which already has criminal importance today, concerning the non-compliance, by the foreigner, of administrative measures of refusal, expulsion to the border and expulsion. Therefore, we believe that the problem that has been raised, last, by Senator Caliendo is instrumental and aimed only at dilatory purposes. [[Senator Sacconi points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u32	Senator Sacconi, I would like to see the first stage of the explanation of the amendments to Article 1, with which the debate that has just opened has no bearing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Amendment 1,233 has the meaning of increasing the ceiling of the sanctions provided for by the applicability of the main penalty, which is now referred to as home imprisonment, in order to engage the so-called crime of falsehood. At present, the intraedittal space in respect of which it is possible to perform the conversion by the judge, in accordance with the criteria of Article 133 of the house imprisonment, reaches a maximum of five years. The amendment aimed at increasing this ceiling is intended to engage, precisely, the crime of falsehood. That is the point of the amendment that I have allowed myself to propose precisely because of the need to have a greater scope of application of the institution in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u34	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendment No 1,201, which seeks to delete the whole of Article 1. We believe, in fact, as we have well explained in the general debate, that the forecast of arrest and imprisonment for all crimes involving a sentence of up to three years is a completely dangerous and disastrous remedy for our order. In fact, as we have explained, according to the approach of the North League, crimes, if committed, must result in a penalty, which must be completely expiated, and imprisonment must be understood as a remedy which, however considered as an extreme ratio, must be atoned for in practice. In our view, house arrest and incarceration lead to difficulties in carrying out and monitoring. We are at a time when there is a problem of general security; surely the criminal episodes follow and they are read in the newspapers, and of course this is a time when the police and the Carabinieri must protect the territory and control it; Therefore, surely verify and control the respect of the householders involves a use of Forces of the order that could well be used for other types of control, to follow the various interventions and everything else. We at the North League (also myself) have tabled parliamentary questions to ask the Government how it intends to address certain crime issues, taking into account the current police and police staff. For this reason, with amendment 1,201 we want to ask that Article 1 be deleted in its entirety, not only by contesting the issue of the application of house imprisonment for sentences of up to three years, but also by taking into account the possibility that it may be granted for all offences punished with the penalty of imprisonment of three to five years, which can therefore lead to serious danger. We are also surprised that it is not considered the possibility of relapse, and the fact that it is still allowed to resort to certain institutions (let us call them improperly beneficial) to criminals even if they are relapsed. We are particularly surprised that there is even a case of non-penalty for criminal conduct with the sole financial penalty for prison sentences not exceeding five years. And this would be the case in the case of particular tenuity of the offense and non-usuality of the behavior. In our view, when it comes to crimes which, in any case, involve a prison sentence, even if they do not exceed five years, it must be borne in mind that this Parliament itself, at the time when it drew up the code of conduct, considered them to be of particular seriousness; therefore, the particular nature of the offence in our view cannot be considered as a cause of non-perpetuality. A crime for us is always a crime, regardless of what may be its consequence. As far as the public works that are included in the text are concerned, while sharing the idea that they are certainly a remedy even re-educational, we believe that they are also a way to further aggravate the penalty, to which they must add, but never replace it. In fact, if it is true that a criminal, at the time of committing a crime, can be used for public works to realize what it means to work for that community of which he himself, committing the crime, has damaged a primary interest, however this type of work must simply be added to the prison sentence. We also believe that, of all the solutions proposed for home imprisonment, the provision which excludes it for the offences referred to in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975 is certainly not satisfactory. In the meantime, there is no point in including this indication when Article 4-bis provides for offences that even involve penalties of more than five years, so this inscription is almost useless. However, we believe that there are other offences that should be excluded, and this will be specified in the amendment that I will later present.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u35	We greet three foreign guests who are attending our session: three women entrepreneurs from Morocco and Tunisia, accompanied by the president of Corrente Rosa, Serena Romano, who have come to our country to learn some practices on equal opportunities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u36	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u37	Madam President, first of all, I would like to say a word about the procedural issue raised by Senator Caliendo. I would like to remind you that it is perfectly true that the rapporteur cannot withdraw amendments from the Commission, but the rapporteur can table amendments at any time, for which he obviously assumes responsibility, so much so that the deadline for sub-amendments can be set. Having said that, I give my opinion on the amendments tabled to Article 1. I call on the authors to withdraw amendments ranging from 1,200 to 1,254, otherwise the opinion is against it. On amendment 1,255 the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,256, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 1.257, because the wording of (i) and (b) and (c) of the text renders point (m) useless and inoperative. Consequently, I call for the withdrawal of amendments 1,258 and 1,259, pointing out that if amendment 1,257 were adopted, they would be absorbed. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 1,260 and 1,261, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of Amendments 1,262 and 1,263 (which basically coincide), while on Amendment 1,264 the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u38	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u41	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I had only outlined the first of my amendments to Article 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you know that in the ten minutes at your disposal you could illustrate them all. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Forgive me. Today we are in the absence of our Parent Company. I was told, however, that there was no time to comment on the amendments, so I had only explained the first of my amendments, but I would also like to explain the others, and I would ask you to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u42	Senator Stefani, there is an article in our Rules of Procedure that states what I have explained to you. You probably didn't know, and your parent didn't say, but you did. You have exhausted your time by presenting the first amendment on Article 1. If you like, I will read you the specific Rule of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, you have already run out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u45	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Rules of Procedure provide that each senator may speak on the amendments tabled to an article for ten minutes. Of course, if I raise my hand to call your attention, you jump me, it's not okay. That said, you decide what you want to do. I repeat that, with regard to this measure, we do not agree on how it was set up and how you are managing the order of business, because it is clearly a coup d'état. Beyond that, Madam President, the word never goes up. Then you give the judgment, take the responsibility to vote on it, but we, I tell you now, as Senator Santangelo did for the votes, will speak on each amendment for 10 minutes; on each article we will make explanations of vote for 10 minutes; and this is due to every Senator of the Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you have already made the explanation of vote on the amendment? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, Madam President, I spoke on the order of business. I now ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Take it easy, Senator. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. So we're getting ready...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u46	Wait, let the presidency work. Then she will be given the word when she is due. Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u48	Senator, what are you asking for? I would remind you that we are already in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u49	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to understand exactly how the mechanism works, so that we do not create problems every time about who is to speak or not to speak. Can all of us in an explanation of vote speak to express our intention to vote, do you confirm that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, a Senator per Group may speak in an explanation of vote. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). And for how long? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For 10 minutes. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u52	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, do you confirm that I can give an explanation of vote on every single amendment to this Rule for 10 minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, please. STEFANI (LN-Aut). With regard to Amendment No 1,201, as I said earlier in my explanation, I am sorry that I have not been able to explain the other amendments as well, because in my opinion there are also amendments that are important for the aims that we want to achieve. With regard to the first, as has already been stated in general debate, our amendment aims to delete the entire article because we contest and strongly oppose the provision of this delegation law which, in our opinion, is intended to create a change not only in the perspective of the execution of the sentence, because here we are not really talking about execution of the sentence, but an alternative penalty that is institutionalized, such as that of house imprisonment and house arrest, which in this case are considered as obligatory remedies for the judge, who, for the crimes up to three years, will therefore provide for arrest and house arrest. Among other things, account shall also be taken of the fact that the penalty is counted in accordance with Article 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this respect too, we strongly dispute that this remedy is being used, since Article 278 makes the penalty for precautionary measures, while in this case we are talking about the final penalty. But not only for this: Article 278 does not take into account very important elements, such as, for example, aggravating circumstances and continuation. We then contend, as has already been said, that the possibility of arrest and imprisonment is provided for for crimes punished between three and five years of age. Again, we believe that in the presence of penalties up to five years we must talk about crimes of some importance and a certain seriousness. We have made considerable efforts in this House to ensure that the criminal offence of stalking is included in the calculation of criminal offences with a prison sentence. At the moment, there is a particular sensitivity to this crime, given the cases that have occurred and the even media clamour that has taken place around this issue. Now the stalking crime is included in the sanctioned crimes with prison sentences but, at the same time, there is a strong mitigation of the sanctions themselves. Although we know that, good or bad, home imprisonment nevertheless creates an impediment and limitation for the daily life of a criminal - who for us always remains criminal, regardless of the degree of gravity of the crime committed - this always finds himself living his own life without being subjected (even if we have understood the reasons) not only to the difficulties, but also sometimes to the infamy of the prison. Prison, therefore, in our opinion is the only remedy, the only solution, the only end to which the person who commits crimes must be destined. In some ways we have also shared the contents of the letter (f) of paragraph 1 of Article 1, which provides for imprisonment or arrest in prison, if a suitable address is not available to ensure the custody of the sentenced person or if the behaviour of the sentenced person, for the violation of the prescribed prescriptions or for the commission of further crime, is incompatible with the continuation of the same, also on the basis of the needs of protection of the person offended by the crime. We believe it is essential to think about the very important figure of the person offended by the crime, which we sometimes forget. At a time when, however, there are attenuations of the sentence, as you established in Decree-Law No. 78 of last July, we put ourselves in the shoes of the offended people who will see circulate or live freely in their homes those who have caused harm to them or their family members. Sometimes even pleasant episodes happen. For example, in Brescia, house arrests were imposed on a clochard, a person who in some ways was obliged to be present at his bench. It's news that may make you smile, but I wonder what place a clochard can consider as his home. In the case that I mentioned to you, when the clochard was contested the fact that he was not at his bench, he had to answer to the judge, but of course he was acquitted, because, as was evident, he struggled to comply with the obligation of house arrest. We also dispute the exclusion of the punishable conduct with the sole financial penalty or with prison sentences not exceeding five years, when it appears the particular tenuity of the offense and the non-usuality of the behavior. Here too, of course, they are voting in favour of our amendment and strongly against the provisions of Article 1. We believe that the extent of the offence or the particular gravity of the matter must be noted for the purposes of the granting of mitigating measures, but that it cannot even be expected to exclude the criminality of such conduct. This exclusion really poses a serious danger in concrete cases. Let us think, for example, of the small thefts that take place in supermarkets, shops and shopping malls. I think stealing doesn't mean a package of candy, but a bottle of some product or other similar goods does show a tendency to delinquency on the part of the subject. I'm not talking about human cases where someone can't even get to the end of the month because they don't have the minimum to eat. But surely these are facts. If we predict non-penalty for certain crimes, we come to recognize that it can be stolen in supermarkets. This is the consequence of the provisions of the measure. Can I turn to the explanation of another amendment, or does that apply as an explanation of vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is the explanation of vote, the amendments had already been tabled, as I explained earlier. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Forgive me, Madam President: this is the explanation of vote on the first amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On Amendment No 1,201, and since you have not accepted the call for withdrawal, we must vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u55	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, we call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B.) (Senator Bellot reports a disguido with the card, which returns to the parliamentary assistant). We've reported it, Senator Bellot. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. As the authors do not accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,202, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u59	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have paid particular attention to this amendment by calling for the deletion of points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 1. For those who do not have clear what this is about, since it is important to understand well how to vote, I recall that letter a) states that in the legislative decrees it is expected that the main penalties are life imprisonment, imprisonment, house imprisonment and house arrest, fine and fine, and that the imprisonment and house arrest are expounded at the house of the sentenced person or other public or private place of care, assistance and reception, hereinafter referred to as "domicile," with continuous duration or for individual days of the week or for time slots. In addition to all this, the decree of delegation previews to paragraph 1 of Article 1 that the Government is delegated to adopt one or more legislative decrees for the reform of the system of penalties in certain modalities and within certain terms. It is clear that the government is being delegated here on a matter in which Parliament should intervene directly, not delegate a subsequent measure to the Commission. If you don't find an excess delegation here, where do you find it? Point (b) provides that for offences for which the penalty for arrest or imprisonment is provided for not exceeding three years, in accordance with Article 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is provided that the penalty is that of house arrest or house arrest; Do you realize that this is an excess? A law of Parliament should intervene directly on this; there can be no delegation, as provided for in Article 1. So let us return once again to the meaning of the measure. What is it? That of really giving a sponge on crimes for which, instead, people ask us to be strict and not to allow these criminals, who can be identified in some case, in summary, in the discussion as small criminals, but who are the most ferocious, who enter the houses, who take away sleep to the people at night, who then produce situations of social distress and make our cities insecure, remain unpunished. We also think about what is connected to a serious crime such as drugs: it is not simply a matter of consumption, but of dealing, and around this there are a series of heinous crimes: we think about who goes to steal, who insinuates in schools, who comes into contact with the youngest. Well, all this risks creating a further wave of lack of serenity in our communities. So, dear President, in order to help colleagues to orient themselves in the vote, I would like to bring back to the attention of the Assembly what he writes in an open letter to Minister Cancellieri the National Deputy Secretary of the Police Union: Mr. Minister Anna Maria Cancelleri, may I ask you a question? I, as a law enforcement officer, how do I interpret this decree as empty prisons? Have you been informed, as well as the conditions of prisoners, of those of honest Italian citizens? What about law enforcement? How should we feel about ourselves as policemen? - and I add: policemen and exponents of all the other Forces of the Order - when we arrest a criminal and a few minutes later we find him in the street who mocks us and continues his criminal actions? How should these guardians feel about the order? That is the question that we must ask ourselves before we vote. Are these the socially useful workers? The criminals we put out of jail? Then the letter goes on: "Socially useful jobs? Why don't these jobs be done by honest citizens who pay their taxes and who don't even think about stealing? Do you know that one crime is reported every ten seconds in Italy? Then explain to us how we can instill confidence in the citizens, if then those who rule in the opposite direction. We work for the citizen and the administration of the State Police gives us the opportunity to carry out this task, but ours is only the first act and if then the final is this of the empty prisons, all we have to do is resign ourselves. So think about it, ladies and gentlemen, before you vote on this amendment. Still writes the representative of the police union: No doctor orders people to commit crimes and therefore everyone has to take responsibility. The wrong party must pay and the penalty must be certain. This reflection introduces an important subject which, once again, I invite you to consider before voting on this amendment. You cannot think of solving everything with a sponge stroke, decriminalizing the crimes and putting the criminals out of jail, just because over the years the successive governments have not fixed the problem of justice, because the real problem that is behind is that of a justice that leaves people in prison without a definitive judgment; it is that of a justice that, when it wants, acts quickly, and when instead it does not care about the crimes committed by the people - as in this case - even lets free, for the beginning of the terms, fierce and vicious criminals. So what are we talking about? These servants of the State continue in their letter: The attenuators are provided by our penal code and no one questions them, but you cannot forgive people who with their crimes, even if judged "minor," often cause real family tragedies. Adult? Amnesty? What else lies behind these measures? That is what we must ask ourselves; That is what you must tell us today. We are preparing not to vote on this legislative amendment, which is why we support the amendment that we have tabled. Police officers continue in the letter: "Many foreigners come to Italy to delinquere because they know very well that our system is very soft and almost always you can get away with it, perhaps with some "sweet" semi-freedom or with a "serene" control, such as the probation - just what we are talking about - "or, even better, with house arrests with permits for all hours, from that to accompany the dog to take a ride to that to go home of friends for a birthday". And so - I add - also the level of security that we have to demand from a prisoner therefore fails, because, if today in the Italian prisons happens that even the "pizzini" are passed among the mafia, let alone when these types of subjects are put under house arrest. What criminal networks will still be allowed to maintain unchanged? The criminal and judicial system must disintegrate crime and prevent criminal ties from being maintained. In this case, however, the rule proposed in the measure under consideration provides, if not amended, for this type of criminal networks to be maintained, and we certainly, as well as the representatives of the law enforcement forces, do not agree with that. He still writes this police officer and listen to what he writes to guide your vote: Mr. Minister, we hope that your ideas will be positive and reason will be on your side, but know that if even one of these individuals you have allowed to leave prisons will return to delinquere, perhaps killing or raping some young people, the responsibility will certainly not be of the police. I say this to my colleagues in the New Right Centre: think about this before you vote on this kind of law that is proposed to you by the Government and the other parliamentarians, indeed in this case directly by parliamentarians. Think about it, because you will be in contradiction with what Minister Alfano continues to say every day: We have confidence in the Forces of Order, we give them means, resources. Let's put gasoline in the cars. So I ask: what is the confidence given to the Forces of Order? Therefore, Madam President, we will vote in favour of Amendment 1,202. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u60	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Pascoli-Giovinazzi" of Castellaneta, in the province of Taranto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u63	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, even on this measure - as has happened so far every time the Senate has met to discuss draft laws - the Group of the Democratic Party, with great care and attention, has avoided either speeding up or hastening or slowing down the debate for instrumental reasons. A short while ago, however, the Group of the North League announced a obstructive tactic, which, if I understood correctly, has been so de-elineated: each member of it will ask to speak on every amendment, using our Rules of Procedure, and will intend to speak - we have just seen it - for ten minutes. An approximate calculation leads us to say that, with this system, with the timetable we have adopted, we will not even be able to approve some of the amendments tabled in Article 1 at this morning's sitting. All the substantive discussions and all the in-depth discussions are necessary and must be respected by the House. This obstructive tactic forces me, however, to ask the presidency of the Senate to evaluate the convocation, in a timely manner, of a Conference of the Leaders that will allow us to [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] or to suspend the time or to sit throughout the day and night, until the measure is approved. [[Applause from the PD, PI and Misto-Aute ironici groups of Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u66	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Madam President, I would like to disagree with what has been said by the representatives of the North League, including with regard to the invitation to the senators of the New Centre to meditate before voting on the articles in question. I think we need to be clear about this. The starting point of the measure that we are voting on is certainly not the desire to create a criminal law favourable to the accused or the condemned, but to intervene on a point absolutely to the attention of the public opinion, on which the Government and Parliament have repeatedly expressed their views. I am referring to the poverty of the arsenal of sanctions, which requires the judge to give sentences to prison sentences, which must then be executed, but above all to so-called short prison sentences. The conversion or, better said, the enrichment of the sanctions arsenal, which next to the imprisonment and arrest today should also provide for arrest and home imprisonment, is precisely the so-called short prison sentences. That is a statement that fully clarifies the terms of the matter. We are talking about crimes or violations punished with penalties up to three years and, therefore, adjustable with prison sentences even possibly well below the limit of three years, that is to say crimes and violations ranging from three to five years of imprisonment. The point of my preliminary warning is precisely to give concreteness to what represents one of the arguments on which the reflection of criminalists but, above all, of the legislator has focused in recent years, namely the highly criminal nature of the short prison sentences. Everyone has always observed the need to prevent the prison circuit from opening up to subjects who have to atone for very short periods of time because, given the brevity of the prison sentence, in those contexts not only is not guaranteed the re-educational function of the sentence, therefore the principle contained in Article 27 of the Constitution (since the short prison sentence is incompatible with the re-educational paths, which inevitably involve wider sanctioning spaces), and especially for the criminal effects of short prison sentences. That is, if you take a citizen, perhaps sentenced many years later by the commission of a crime, who has already returned to society, who has found a job, lives in an ordinary family context, and you put him in prison to atone for a sentence of six to seven months, perhaps in a context in which, hypothetically, the so-called alternatives are not even applicable in the execution phase, you inevitably create a situation of criminal tension. Instead of re-educating the condemned, a healthy subject is placed in a criminal context, causing serious damage to his possibility of reintegration, once he is released. It should therefore be noted that the measure does not affect in a general way (and certainly not possible) prison sentences, but affects only short prison sentences, avoiding that criminal circuit that a detention as a result of a sentence execution order for short periods determines. It must be said, among other things, that the short prison sentence with rules of execution for weekly days or, even, for time slots corresponds to a necessity also strongly warned to regulate certain dysfunctional situations of a criminal type particularly linked to contexts that characterize the commission of crimes only on the occasion of certain events. Let us imagine the violence in the stadiums or the use of drugs or alcoholic substances during the attendance of discotheques on Saturday evening, with a whole series of related crimes, perhaps not only in the matter of the use of drugs, but also of serious facts related to the circulation of motor vehicles, which are determined precisely when participating in events linked only to certain occasions that take place, perhaps, on Friday evening or Saturday evening. A short prison sentence for time slots, or for predetermined days of the week, is precisely the aim of achieving a double result: for a verse, punish with detention penalty, even if not prison sentence, the condemned; for the other verse, punish him only at those events that determine his criminality. In this case, the sanctioning intervention is particularly selective, because it identifies, within healthy sections of the population, only those who delinquency at particular events. Therefore, it does not sanction anyone irretrievably and damagingly, but only punishes him with reference to those occasions that stimulate his criminal conduct. In order to clarify further the issue from which I started, saying that they are sanctions dedicated to short prison sentences, I would stress that they are still prison sanctions. It is therefore necessary to clarify an absolutely obvious question: the house arrest and the house arrest are prison sanctions, but of a non-convict type, so much so that the law or, better said, the scheme of delegation to the Government provides, although superfluously, the reference to the crime of evasion for the case of the violation or non-compliance with the limitations to personal freedom related to the application of prison sanctions, which we classify as home imprisonment and house arrest. Moreover, this measure is absolutely necessary if we are to avoid grafting on what is a completely irrational solution to our system, namely the so-called surveillance process. Well, today we condemn those who have been responsible for certain crimes and then convert the sentences to short prison sentences with alternative penalties. The value of the measure under consideration that we delegate to the Government consists - precisely - in allowing the judge of merit, therefore to the judge of cognition, to apply immediately penalties that do not then require an alternative conversion by the judge of surveillance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ascola, please finish your speech, because your time is running out. D'ASCOLA (NCD). The merit, therefore, is to avoid what at this point becomes an unnecessary phase of judgment, i.e. the stage of execution. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u69	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to be able to endorse Amendment No 1,202 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, I believe that the political assessment made by my colleague is correct and correct and that all Italians would expect the solution he has indicated. Secondly, I would like to make a comment aloud, in particular by addressing my colleagues in the PD Group. Until a few months ago, when certain positions were taken within the parliamentary classrooms, which today, as then, have been defined as obstructionism, this attitude was considered legitimate and normal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Today, instead, we call back and invite colleagues who do not think like us (in this case, I think like the Senators of the LN-Aut Group and not like those of the PD Group, who are mostly) not to do obstructionism. The translation of this word could mean, for those who are listening to us, that the colleagues of the North League, and all the others who are not in the majority and do not share certain attitudes of the majority, should not even speak. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] According to this false and today's interpretation we should only listen or go home and ensure that the majority can do a peaceful and peaceful job without having anyone on the other hand leading their political battle by the means that are made available by democracy: I am referring to that obstructive attitude that someone wants to qualify and consider uncomfortable, but that instead is normal and legitimate in time of democracy, and it should and could be done by parliamentarians who are on the other side of the barricade without any kind of difficulty for anyone. To hear someone, for whom I have the utmost respect, to invite the President to take heavy attitudes towards Members of this House who are exercising their activities in this House, leaves me somewhat puzzled. I believe that you, Madam President, are autonomous at 360 degrees and will not be intimidated or will need suggestions from someone for the conduct to be carried out. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u70	Senator Scilipoti, in the meantime there is the Rules of Procedure, which is respected, as happens so many times that other procedures are also respected. So, please, no one here is intimidating or intimidating at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u73	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am amazed and shocked by Senator Zanda's request. Although I do not agree with the vast majority of the speeches made by my colleagues in the League these days, I believe it is essential to respect the possibilities, including regulations, for any opposition and any political force to intervene. Times are not, however, contingent, which has been known since this measure was scheduled. So, please move on with the work as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u76	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we sincerely regret to hear President Zanda's words, because to date, if we are not mistaken, we are not yet in a dictatorship or a monarchy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is a regularly elected Parliament...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u77	May I invite you to use your own words? Here we are all in democracy, even in the expression of opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u78	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). More own than that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We are in a regularly elected Parliament, which has a Rules of Procedure and in which, as the word itself says, we talk, debate, confront each other, above all. The word "obstructionism" is very bad, because in this case we are not doing obstructionism. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Really ugly this word, because in this case the League does not obstruct. The League is simply asking what some colleagues asked for yesterday when the debate was interrupted, which is asking colleagues more carefully to reflect on what we are voting on. We have applied the Rules of Procedure, we have done nothing else; a regulation, Mr Zanda, which has been in force for many years and which is also applied precisely by the offices (and we thank them for that), and which has also been applied this morning in a perfect way, without smearing. We respect Parliament's work, Mr President. We respect it to such an extent that, although we do not remain silent, we have only expressed our opinion in a subtle way when this Government has presented omnibus decrees, with unplanned arguments that were not even to be dealt with, or when this Senate was given the role of merely ratifyer of other people's choices, with the debate reduced to a mere one: We vote because there is no time. There is time today, because it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We therefore ask for the time available to us in the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry to hear the request from President Zanda to convene a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, because this morning, when my President rightly asked for the Conference of Leaders to be convened to decide today's agenda, he was denied this. Instead, President Zanda calls for such a call to shut up a parliamentary group. It's a shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u81	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I rise to support the request by the President of the Democratic Party Group, Senator Zanda, to convene the Conference of Leaders for an assessment of the order of business. I would remind my fellow Members, particularly those who are complaining at this time about an attempt to reduce the democratic space, which we have a long memory of: let us not forget what has happened in the past in this House and in other parliamentary classrooms about measures of some importance, and the attitudes which, from time to time, majorities and oppositions have taken on matters in the field. In particular, I would like to point out to my colleagues in the League that they are doing a legitimate obstructionism, but distorted by an incorrect interpretation of reality. My colleague, Mr D'Ascola, who spoke on behalf of the New Right Centre, has clarified in a precise way the areas of intervention of this measure, the contours of the delegation, which certainly do not take on attitudes of a permissive or goodist nature, but instead try to achieve objectives provided for in our Constitution, which are primarily those that contribute to the reeducational purpose of the sentence; moreover, they try to determine a situation of concrete application of the sanction. In fact, very often we notice that the measures remain simple Manzoni screams, since then they do not affect concretely the behaviors that must be sanctioned, since our system is not able to satisfy the demand for effective sanctioning. Therefore, introducing a sanction other than detention in prison is certainly a concrete element that we must take forward, how to differentiate from crime: not all crimes can be treated in the same way. We need to select and recognise what are the most worrying crimes for society and public opinion. Therefore, rather than making every representative of the League Group intervene for ten minutes, a more focused action, which could certainly be carried out in the Commission and which can still be carried out in this Chamber, allows everyone, through a genuine and non-instrumental dialectic, to pursue in a more effective way the objectives that we all have: to give greater security to citizens, to society and at the same time to save the weariness resulting from the application of rules that, in essence, cannot be realized and aimed at our real objectives, namely to ensure security to citizens and justice also to those who have committed crimes and who are responsible for crimes. In fact, a democratic state, a true rule of law, recognizes to everyone, guilty and innocent, a correct application of the law. In this respect, I think it is necessary to call for a different organization of work to be taken over or taken over again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u84	ALBERTINI (PI). Madam President, I would like to add, on my own behalf and on behalf of my Group, my support for the proposal which Senator Zanda has just presented for a meeting of the Conference of the Leaders, in order to intervene in order to quote speaking time and thus enable this House to fulfil its two institutional profiles: that of deciding and that of allowing all colleagues to express their thoughts on what is the subject of the debate. I would add an experience, which I do not take as an example, in the sense that we must imitate it, but only to say that it works in this way in the largest Parliament in the world, where 28 countries are represented: I am referring to the European Parliament, in which there is a Regulation defining the number of minutes allocated to the various groups present in proportion to the number of seats, but which puts - it is a matter of pure rationality - the discretion of the Presidency (both the Commission and the House) the quota of speaking time when the time required for the fulfilment of decisions and the number of interventions is such as not to make the abstract norm compatible with the present, concrete and real, of fulfilling those two institutional tasks. I conclude with a joke by a well-known journalist, Longanesi, who said to his director: Excuse me, director, the article came too long; I didn't have time to make the summary. It may take a minute to say sensible things; ten minutes is not enough for us to waste our time. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bruno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u87	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I speak very briefly to support President Zanda's request. I believe that this debate has already found in the Commission a very important deepening on the part of all of us. This was a serious and in-depth debate, which we have tabled in this House; we are proposing it again: this was the case in the general debate, and I believe that it will take place - when it is useful - also during the examination of the amendments, and also, and especially, during the explanations of vote. Therefore, I believe that the request is well founded and that these attitudes also show that, before any other institutional reform, a revision of the parliamentary regulations is most appropriate, for the purposes of the functioning of the Republic and for the effectiveness of our action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u90	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, like Senator Albertini, I also think it is okay to convene the Conference of Leaders, because, on a sensitive point like this, we must try to comply with two issues which - honestly - I think are both significant. I think I am perhaps, in this House, that - or among those, because I do not want to speak only of myself - which has a greater cultural and political distance from the amendments of colleagues in the League. In fact, I consider these amendments very far from me and I regard them, like the attitude of the Legist senators in this House, as totally intolerable on many aspects. However, I would not like this argument to be used (which is a political problem for me, because the things said by the representatives of the League during these days and the racist attitudes they are having towards a Minister of the Republic are a very serious political problem)... [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]] Bisinella (LN-Aut). Again! De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). ... I would not want this political problem to be used to, let's say, put in place an element of stranglehold of democratic times, which I believe - instead - a truly very important constitutional guarantee that is given to oppositions. Therefore, the Conference of the Leaders will well come to find a measure of common sense: where the right of opposition comes to be able to use the parliamentary regulations without instrumentalization and where, however, this right stops in the face of the need - however - for the national Parliament to be able to legislate and do its job.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u93	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if the Conference of Leaders were to be convened, as requested by Senator Zanda, I would like to consider one aspect, given the impossibility of concluding the examination of this measure today and since it is not acceptable to stay in this Chamber both in the afternoon and at night, as Senator Zanda suggested. Considering, therefore, that yesterday we suspended the examination of this measure in order to examine draft law No 580, in order to avoid leaving both measures suspended at the end of this week, I would, if necessary, ask for the latter' s procedure to be completed at least. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, but this proposal concerns the Conference of Leaders, if you will. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). However, I urge you in this House to take this into account by the Heads of Groups. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can continue our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u95	Senator, what are you talking about? Your Group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u96	Bisinella (LN-Aut). I'm acting personally.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u97	Personal interventions are carried out at the end of the sitting. Bisinella (LN-Aut). I only ask you, Madam President... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I repeat to you that personal interventions take place at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u100	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to know whether the news I have heard from the press agencies is true, according to which a group of senators occupied President Grasso's offices. Furthermore, if that were true, I would like to know whether the presidency of the Senate has tolerated this occupation and whether it still remains. I would like to have some very timely information on this point. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u101	We'll take some information. I was here; no one told me anything. I respond to you live, but I ask the offices to take up the information and present it to the Presidency. Let us continue our work and proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,202, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words: (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 925 president. The remaining part of Amendment 1,202 and Amendment 1,203 are therefore excluded. Amendment 1,204 has been withdrawn. The rapporteur then asked the proposers to withdraw amendment 1,205. Senator Buccarella, do you accept this proposal? BUCCARELLA (M5S). No, Madam President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,205. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,205 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 925 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u104	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, with this amendment we call for the deletion of the words: 'home imprisonment' under point (a) of paragraph 1, Article 1. We ask this because one of the prison sentences to which a person who commits a crime can be subjected is home imprisonment, which - be careful - does not only mean that he can stay at home instead of in a cell, because the person who commits a crime must be in a cell. I remember the importance of the certainty of punishment. Another particular aspect of this rule on home imprisonment is that this can be taken for granted even at fixed times, only for part of the day or only in a few days and in others not. In this regard, I would like to read to you an AGI press agency of 4 January this year. The title of this press agency is: "Schiaffi and fists to wife and son of two years, arrested twenty-eight years old." One of the possibilities provided for by the measure in our examination, apart from testing, is that these persons should be granted house arrests. So this man beats his wife and two-year-old son, and one of the possible penalties could be to serve the sentence at his house, where there are the two victims. I read the agency, which is not biased and that everyone can go and read, leaving to you the interpretation: Crotone, 4 January. The Carabinieri of the station of Isola di Capo Rizzuto have arrested, in flaganza of crime, a Romanian worker of 28 years, resident in Isola di Capo Rizzuto, accused of ill-treatment in the family against his wife and his son minor living together. - I repeat is a two-year-old child - "In the afternoon of yesterday, according to the rebuilt by the military, the twenty-seven-year-old wife of the man, even of Romanian origin, had presented herself at the Station of the Carabinieri. Frightened and trembling, with her only two-year-old son in her arms, the victim had reported that she had been assaulted with slaps and punches by her partner. - slaps and fists - "The woman had shown to the military the visible signs of bruises on her face, reporting that the attacker would have struck even the two-year-old, also addressing her heavy death threats if she had denounced the incident to the Carabinieri. The woman said that violent behavior would start for about three years, due to the state of alteration due to the abuse of alcohol in which her husband was often found. She also reported that she was also often the victim of abuse by her husband. The agency continues as follows: In the light of her husband's violent personality, the woman would always have avoided pressing charges hoping that the birth of her son might somehow cause him to desist from carrying out such ill-treatment. I recall that in another part of the provision in our examination it is also provided that a person can say: "Don't worry, I've become good, I'll never do it again: test me, so you'll see that I'm an angel." [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] That, gentlemen, is the classic example of the failure that this measure would have to face. This gentleman, who will certainly not receive a sentence of ten or twenty years (it is imaginable that he can receive one from three to six years) may not go to prison, because now, with this measure, he will be able to choose an alternative solution. But do you imagine what this woman is suffering? In addition to being abused and subjected to violence - she and, I stress, the two-year-old - now that she has had the courage (so much of a hat for this poor woman) to denounce the man who abused her [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] , the famous stalker, these will not be subject to a sentence that you send him to prison, and will certainly put in place retaliation against the wife who denounced him. Let us remember that, as the agency says, these ill-treatments have been going on for three years: and you now think that everything is OK? Everyone can have their own ideas, of course, we are not here to recriminate: we of the League are on one position and you fellow senators are on other positions. But on these situations it is really crucial that you make a greater effort to reflect: do not take things as they happen, do not give things to certain because they resolve so much. Let us give our citizens the opportunity to live safely and safely, let us give this woman and her two-year-old child the opportunity to live peacefully. How many women, we've seen, are they even dead? How many? And if we allow these situations now, if we allow this 28-year-old to continue his quiet life, we are allowing him to continue to do violence against his wife and child. So maybe in a few months, given the history of the man, we'll read a news agency where we won't talk about slaps and punches to a wife and two-year-old son, but a wife killed by her husband. We don't have to allow these things, we have to think. The measure that we all approved a few months ago with regard to stalking was very much heard. On that occasion all colleagues, particularly women, but fortunately there are also men who feel this problem, have invoked tougher penalties. What struck me above all was the difficulty, which is recorded many times, by women, to denounce the family members, the cohabitant, the husband, precisely because they are afraid of retaliation. At that juncture, everyone said: We must support these women who have courage, we must help them. Well, gentlemen, we are doing the opposite today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u107	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Madam President, the problem raised by the senator who has just spoken, namely that of the possible incompatibility of the crime committed in respect of which he was sentenced to the execution of the imprisonment or house arrests, is in fact a problem solved by Article 1 (f) which states that it is necessary, in order to apply the sentence in question, for the sentenced person to have a suitable domicile for the execution of the sentence, and provides, if not, for the replacement of the house arrest or house arrest by imprisonment or arrests in prison. The problem is also solved by the further assertion that arrests in prison or imprisonment are achieved when the person who has been imprisoned has committed other crimes, but above all it is to be said that at the end of point (f) there is the express indication that the protection needs of the victim must be taken into account. Therefore, the problem raised by the senator who has just intervened is an objectively acceptable problem, but precisely in so far as it is acceptable, it is a problem solved by the text of the delegation, which makes express reference to the need to have a suitable domicile and the need to treat the measure in any case according to the needs of protection of the offended person. It must be said, among other things, that measures concerning violence in the family are usually characterized by the intervention of the ancillary penalty of removal from home, which, in fact, also in the precautionary phase solves the problem already indicated. For these reasons, I shall vote against the amendment. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u108	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,206, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Ironic applause from Senator Candiani.]] Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u111	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, representatives of the Government, illustrious fellow senators, I would like to spare the staff of the offices appointed by the Presidency, at the express request of the leader of the Zanda Democratic Party, to see if at this moment some senators of the North League are occupying the offices of President Grasso. Well, I repeat, I want to save the staff some time, and so I confirm it: this morning the Group of the North League divided, but happily divided, because a part is occupying, presiding...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u112	You're taking the ten minutes you need to talk about the amendment, aren't you? Otherwise, if you wish to talk about anything else, I would ask you to speak at the end of the sitting. Please, Senator, if you don't mind, I'm gonna have to take your word off. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u113	But another part of the Group is here to examine the amendments and speak in an explanation of vote. Moreover, to those who, like Senator Albertini, invite us to sum up the simple and sensible things, well, I would like to remind you that for two years now, on a sensible thing, that is, the reform of the taxation of real estate, this and the previous majority are screwed, crumpled, [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] and moreover the party of Senator Albertini (Civic Choice for Italy) even threatens the crisis of majority for the TASI. Well, from Civic Choice, which invented the IMU two years ago, we do not accept lessons! We believe that the measure under consideration is even more relevant to the general prevention function that the penalty should exercise. We wonder what kind of deterrent can have such a rule on those who want to commit crimes such as personal injuries, beatings, tearing thefts, house thefts, private violence, child pornography and persecutory acts. (I apologize for your low voice. I hope that San Biagio, the protector of the throat, will do to me the same miracle that he did to the rapporteur Casson). We are talking about crimes that cause serious social alarm and that directly affect the weakest and poorest sections of society: theft at home, theft with violence and dexterity, theft committed on public transport, to the point of reaching acts of terrorism with deadly devices, fraud in public supplies, false testimony, false expertise, incitement to criminals, forest fire because of guilt, and more. In our opinion, it is not possible that those who commit these crimes, or even those who only intend to carry them out, should know that at most they risk going back safely to their own home. Nor is it possible to think of guaranteeing the safety of citizens with electronic bracelets, a huge investment of public money that has served nothing, effectively downloading the problem on the Forces of Order, that at present, due to lack of staff, are not able to adequately monitor the number of prisoners who will serve the sentence to house arrests. We continue to underline the fact that the type of crime that could be re-entered and that will fall within the discipline dictated by the measure under consideration - such as those whose penalty the lestophant serves at home - are precisely those of which there has been an increase, according to the reports from the newspapers in recent days, in giving account of the last budget of the Ministry of the Interior on crime. It is for this reason that the Group of the North League, with amendment 1,207, proposes to provide for Article 1, which delegates to the Government in the matter of non-convict prison sentences, that the legislative decrees provide exclusively for arrest in the prison patriae and not for arrest at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u114	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,207, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 1,208 on which there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Buccarella, what are you going to do? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I will not withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,208, which is identical to Amendment 1,209.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u117	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Amendment No 1,209 - the wording of which, as you can see, is virtually identical to the amendment proposed by Mr Buccarella - provides for an amendment to Article 1 (1) of the draft law under consideration, in order to possibly improve the text with respect to the non-communicable - in our view - introduction of the institution of home imprisonment and house arrest for the cases mentioned. Article 1, paragraph 1, letter a), provides that the main penalties are life imprisonment, imprisonment, house imprisonment and house arrest, fine and fine, and it is expected, again, that the imprisonment and house arrest are expounded at the house of the sentenced person or other public or private place of care, assistance and reception, hereinafter referred to as "domicile," with continuous duration or for individual days of the week or for time slots. With a view, as has been well understood, to contest and strongly oppose the introduction of these rules - as I have said before and as the other colleagues of the Group of the North Legacy are repeating, continuing to insist that these rules are not acceptable in the most absolute way - to any good account, if this hypothesis is to be passed - I repeat this again, absolutely not acceptable - we ask that at least the part of the article in which it is expected that imprisonment and house arrest can be arranged for individual days of the week or for slots. I am sorry, in some ways, what has been said, and I follow what Senator De Cristofaro said that, speaking of the interventions of the League, he accused us of racism and everything else. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the North League, with regard to the measure under consideration, is certainly not talking about racism or anything else: we are talking about a situation that is emerging for us, so that not only is there a political problem, but also a technical issue. We believe, in fact, that these arrests and house arrests, if this institution should pass that we do not share anyway and we consider not acceptable in the way it has been structured, must be atoned continuously and certainly not limited to a few days or hours. In fact, we believe that the penalty must be fully atoned for. In the belief that our reality must surely be removed from the degrading or inhumane exclusions - there would be nothing else - we think that a very grievous component of the penalty should be envisaged. At a time when the subject decides to commit crimes - if ever there is a time when one decides to become a criminal - he must be placed in a position to know exactly what the consequence of his actions will be, and this consequence must be particularly serious. In the Commission we are talking about exacerbating certain cases of crime, because it is believed that a penalty, insofar as it is grievous, is discouraging the person who wants to commit a crime. In the Committee on Justice we are talking, for example, in the area of the abuse of the professions, about a worsening of the penalty. At the same time, however, we find ourselves with these measures where, on the contrary, there is an extreme mitigation, which for us is also given by the fact of predicting the arrest and imprisonment of the home limited only to a few days or hours. This is true even though - as we said in the Commission - there may be cases in which this kind of solution could be useful: for example, violence at the stadiums. In some ways, for the person guilty of having committed violence within a sports facility, house arrests or - of course - removal from the stadium could certainly have a grieving character. However, we do not want it to be included as a general institute, generally applied, because the limitation to a few days and hours of the week could still be seen as a kind of escapism, a benevolent solution to those who have committed a crime. We have some doubts and we raise some concerns, because we have to seriously think about how compliance with this sanction can be controlled. If a person is forced to be arrested and imprisoned for the entire day, police officers and police officers in charge of control can carry it out - I use an English word now in force - in a random way, i.e. with a sample check to verify compliance with house arrests or imprisonment. In the case of time slots, I wonder if it is not difficult for police forces and police officers to go and check on individual subjects about whether or not they comply with their duty of time. Turning back to what I said earlier, a major problem is control over the measures in question. We believe that in today's situation, in which police forces are already being used with difficulty, unfortunately the staff of which are being asked for an increase, and complaining everywhere about insufficient protection of the territory, it is difficult to have these checks carried out. To posterity the arduous sentence. We will see in the serious and concrete application of this institute if you actually feel that you have done something right, beyond the political profiles that you can well understand, and I say this seriously, without making proclamations, about populism or alarmism: none of this. We really must ask ourselves the question of the practical application of this measure. We'll see about that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,208, which is identical to Amendment 1,209. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,208 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, identical to amendment 1,209, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. Senator Stefani, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 1,210? STEFANI (LN-Aut). No, Madam President, I maintain the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,210.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u121	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to explain and comment on the amendment and draw the attention of my colleagues who seem a little too distracted. Since they urgently wanted to continue their work on this measure, we expected them to be worthy of the matter of interest. What I am going to explain is an important amendment. The previous speaker has already mentioned the extent to which house arrests are being carried out, explaining the effects, to what types of offences it applies and the consequences. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the proposal, which is of common sense, which we are moving forward. With Amendment 1,210 we propose that house arrest and imprisonment should be carried out continuously, in any case not less than 300 days, taking into account the fact that it is the termination of the sentence that is granted under house arrest, but still for a crime committed. As I said, the colleagues who preceded me have already indicated the types of serious crimes for which, however, the measure provides the possibility of serving the sentence with home imprisonment. These are crimes that involve a sentence of three to five years, very serious crimes such as theft. Well done my colleague Comaroli who preceded me to remember the crime of stalking. We would like to draw attention to the underlying hypocrisies that we live, unfortunately, in these classrooms in some cases. I'll write it down to the government, too. This Parliament says that it wants to do everything to combat the so-called phenomenon of feminicide, heinous hateful crimes perpetrated against women, innocent victims, even in the presence of minors, such as stalking, but it contradicts itself, and it does so in a shameful way, because, while it tries to tighten the penalties and carry out tougher measures on this front, on the other it opens the doors of the prison precisely to those who have spotted this type of crime. This is unacceptable, and I assure you that the citizens of Europe, women, do not understand it! Already very few women have the courage to denounce what they suffer. I know things that happened in neighboring areas where I live. Imagine how they can feel, what courage other women can have when they see that the author of that heinous crime is serving his sentence comfortably in the living room of his house, perhaps in the same condo that the victim lives in. These are cases reported in the chronicles. I'm not inventing them. Often the supervisory tribunal and the judges applying these measures do not realize how the operations are carried out, with the resources and means of control available. Often the executioners, those guilty of such heinous crimes, find themselves serving the sentence in the same condominiums, however in neighboring areas, or in the same neighborhoods as the victims of the crimes. Even so, there was a striking case, reported to the judiciary, in which they were on the same landing. This is truly unacceptable and shameful. Imagine the repercussions in terms of moral and ethical influence that this entails, the devastating social impact that a victim can have, and how it can react, how it can be really upset in a serious way. We cannot accept this and we ask, with the amendments that we are proposing on this front, that at least in a very serious and rigorous way the arrest should be carried out without interruptions of continuity, for a period - in fact - of continuous duration. I remember - Mrs Stefani has already done it well - that these types of crime for which house arrests are granted also put in difficulty the State on another floor, because they put in trouble the Forces of order. For example, policemen, who do so much and with so much sacrifice (and also put back their safety), arrest and deliver to justice and jail the perpetrators of these crimes: after all they do and the risks they run, they see them moving freely or know that they are subjected to certain measures. In fact, the application of such a penalty certainly does not correspond to the heinousness of the crime committed; there is not even a deterrent effect or a proportion to the seriousness of the fact committed. I would point out that there are often reports from the operators themselves that it is not possible to continue to operate in the face of this state of affairs. It is unbearably superficial and irresponsible. Not only do we of the North League support it, not only do people of common sense say it out of here, but the law enforcement, justice and legality, the law enforcement, say it. They claim that the health and life of the workers and servants of the State themselves is at stake, but they turn from another side pretending not to see, even if they know that it is no longer possible to face such a difficult and dangerous job under such conditions. With this kind of measure, these conditions can only worsen. These interventions, therefore, do not allow these servants of the State to have the right respect, making them almost to be considered as failing or weak in the State, persons who do not have the same protection as other categories. I would also like to point out (and I address in particular to many colleagues in the centre-right, because I know that they are sensitive to this issue), that the Forces of Order, and especially the Police, live in a condition of constant lack of men and means. They are people who must operate, as servants of the State, every day in the presence of ever more serious and worrying situations: from an operational point of view, they increase their risks to an extent - we have already pointed out - to chase the criminals, to try to maintain the safety of citizens and public order; moreover, they provide all this without means, because for them the means are never adequately recognized. I remember, then, that very often the perpetrators of such crimes should not even serve the sentence here, in Italy, but should serve it in their countries, i.e. they should be repatriated because they are not Italian citizens. That would solve the problem of prison overcrowding! If the expulsions and repatriation measures were actually carried out, those who have been guilty of crime would go to jail in their own homes. Instead, the state turns to the other side and lets the situation deteriorate and become increasingly worrying. It is the same operators of law and legality who testify to this reality, making them aware and thus confirming, unfortunately, the known danger of many irregulars who are in Italy and do not respect the rules, the laws, as the other citizens do. I repeat that we have nothing to complain to non-EU citizens who enter and remain regularly in Italy, working, maintaining their income from work and paying taxes. We are talking about the whole category that instead of delinque, does not respect the rules, does not respect the justice. With this I would also like to publicly, and I always address the Presidency (I would have liked to have done so before), to draw attention to the fact that it is time to end the accusations of racism that are being launched to us every time the North League deals seriously and objectively with the issues of migration policies. This is something that my Group and I no longer want to accept. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u124	CASSON, Rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to speak quickly on a sensitive point, because the question of the protection of women, of the victims of stalking has been raised. I wanted to reassure you, in the sense that it has absolutely nothing to do with what has been said, because for the crime of stalking the penalty is more than four years and there is no automaticism. Moreover, this bill, in letter f) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 expressly provides that the judge may replace the house imprisonment and house arrests with the prison, to protect the needs of the person offended by the crime, including women, minors and persons unable, in the case of stalking. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u127	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Madam President, I do not want to offend anyone: you are doing the work well and colleagues in the League are doing a legitimate obstruction for the time being. However, if the explanation of vote is on the individual amendment, the general debate cannot be repeated every time. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] I have been listening to the same thing for five or six amendments. Please, the presidency will take the floor... [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] ...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u128	Please let my colleague speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u129	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). ...to those who go out of theme. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u130	I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 1.210, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. The remainder of Amendment 1,210 and Amendments 1,211 and 1,212 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,213.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u133	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I needed to recall the question of San Biagio, about which my colleague, protector of the throat, spoke earlier. He must be the saint whom our Senator Casson addressed with his prayers to be improved...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u134	My colleague, Council, I think it is important to be on the subject. [[Applause from Senator Mastrangeli]] You are exercising a regulatory right, but you are making an explanation of vote, so you must remain on the substance of the amendment. Please, Senator Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u135	There's a reason I made this premise. The problem is that many are sending down big bones these days. Maybe San Biagio will have to pay more attention to this Senate, because he'll have some work to do. The amendment to which I refer calls for the deletion of paragraph 1 (b) which deals with a rather serious problem, because we believe it is appropriate to exclude completely the provision of arrest and house arrest for all offences for which the penalty for arrest or imprisonment is not greater than three years. This triggers an unvirtuous mechanism. The amendment aims to raise this problem linked to the possibility that the sentenced person may serve the sentence to the housekeepers, then to his home, if a house has it. The amendment seeks to delete point (b) of paragraph 1, which provides for house arrests for penalties punished in maximum imprisonment for up to three years. If so approved, this decree will cover many thousands of prisoners who will end up under house arrest; if it is actually approved, the result will soon be known, since the precedents have shown that, even in other cases of amnesty and indult, there has been a huge flop, which has been denounced by us in all the locations and that it has been confirmed also by the professionals. (at 12 p.m.) (continued COUNCIL). All the directors of the surrounding houses, as well as other professionals, like the members of the Forces of the Order, have denounced the absolute ineffectiveness, and the prisons, after a rapid emptying in the first days, have seen in the following months the same subjects return. We would also like to know what this blessed Europe, which has so wandered us, thinks of your solution; Europe probably asked for prisons to be more worthy of being occupied by these criminals, but I believe that your solution absolutely does not solve the problem and only causes others. Capturing a subject who has committed robberies at home, which are the ones that scare the citizens the most, and putting him under house arrest, seems more like a prize than a conviction. The police forces, dear President, will have a great problem: they are already scarce, they have limited means, even sometimes they do not even have the opportunity to supply their own vehicles with petrol, and they will be forced to leave the streets, so they will not do the work for which they are elected, to go and ring the bells of these subjects. So they're gonna spend a great deal of their time ringing the bells, like we used to do when we were kids, and they're gonna come out and say, Yeah, I'm here. This will be a role to which the Forces of Order will have to learn to get used, because by decree there will be a downgrading of their ability to assure the country and citizens more security and protection. Amendment 1,213, if adopted, will be in line with the great problem raised by all the mayors, who, even in meetings with the prefects, showed this lack of security and pointed out that they are powerless to guarantee their citizens safety, due to limited means and technical capabilities. With regard to house arrests for crimes for which a sentence is provided for up to three years, if any account is taken, thousands of persons will be released. One of the things that surprised me most, about the inability of the Carabinieri stations to actually be useful for citizenship, is that, if they catch someone and hand him over to the judge, the carabiniere's thief comes out of the court first, because the carabiniere takes three or four more hours to get out of it, to fill all the papers and documents that are necessary to carry out bureaucratic practices. Therefore, for every person who gets caught, there is a lot of work on the part of the Carabinieri that causes the protectors of citizenship to be flooded with a completely useless bureaucratic work. As we said, Mr President, we consider house arrests to be absolutely harmful for a number of reasons: it is a reward to those who have committed criminal acts, especially against very weak persons. They come into your home and violate your privacy: this is something you've been carrying in for months, and the problem of going home is always to hope that this doesn't happen again. We consider the housekeepers to be in fact a prize, and even the citizen who has never faced justice that sometimes does not work will find himself in a position to be very critical in accepting a measure like this, that I really would like to be put to the vote in a referendum, to see that - perhaps - he would not have a large percentage of votes in favour. [[Applause from Senator Candiani Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u136	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,213 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1,214 and 1,215 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,216.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u139	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, with Amendment No 1,216 we ask that, in paragraph 1 (b), the words "three years" be replaced with the other words: "one year". Why? I understand the colleague of the 5 Star Movement who complained that some themes are often repeated. However, unfortunately, beyond this word, "obstructionism" which, it was said, sounds ugly, in reality what we want to do is, perhaps repeating concepts, to succeed in making the idea of what we want to do and are doing. In our view, therefore, arrest and house imprisonment are not possible and acceptable remedies in this situation and for these crimes, although - I must say - it is a credit of the Commission to have dismissed a text which can be considered to be significantly better than the original wording. I remember, in fact, that in the original formulation we expected the arrest and imprisonment of the house for crimes punished with imprisonment up to six years. As you can see, the Commission has made an assessment, and it has certainly realised that, probably, this extreme expansion of the application of the arrest institute and home imprisonment would have had negative effects. However, despite this effort made by the Commission, we cannot - in any case - share the outcome. In fact, the forecast of arrest and imprisonment for criminal offences up to three years is a solution that does not convince us at all. We can always remember, in fact, that, although they cannot be considered very serious, the crimes punished with imprisonment up to three years are nevertheless such that they must be taken into consideration. With the proposed amendment we suggest, at least, the change from three to one year. Why? Even if arrest and house imprisonment are included in our order in such a widespread way, in any case we believe that at least they can be applied for truly bagatellar hypotheses. The aim of my speeches is to raise the awareness of colleagues that we need to think about the trend towards which we are going. This type of remedy, i.e. the provision for arrest and detention, included in the measure under consideration, merely adds to other interventions which we consider to be buffers, if I may use this term in this House. We are talking, for example, about the measure that we called empty prisons; there was also a text in July in this regard, and a decree-law has just been adopted which will also be discussed in this House. These are all measures that continue to include specific measures. In our view, therefore, there is a lack of an overall view. I think I understand where you're going. Since we are talking about principles such as the certainty of punishment, we must really think about what it means, that is, if we are certain of the penalty simply because the text is readable. We will see this in the legislative decree that will be adopted, because the direction of the House seems to go towards the adoption of this bill. However, at the time of the adoption of yet another measure of this tenor, I believe that the person who follows a criminal course or who, for his reasons, believes that he carries out the profession of criminal rather than anything else in his life, when he reads the article will feel that he is entitled to arrest or imprisonment at home, because for his crime there is a sentence of up to three years. However, by constantly intervening in commercials, as the legislator has been doing for many years (respectfully, I allow myself to raise a criticism of the way of law-making in Italy), the subject who follows a criminal course how can he think of knowing exactly what his penalty will be? Can we say that the principle of certainty of punishment is respected only because the article is well written and is understandable? No, the problem is that, going forward, there is a feeling now common among those who commit a crime for which it is believed that so much, sooner or later, something happens. I don't know if anything happens, if there's a benefit, if there's a mitigation. You will probably be right, because if this is our tendency, our way of working and moving forward, we only create a certain insecurity in the application of the penalty: nothing but certainty! This, not in the reading of the rule, but in the prediction that there may be positive interventions in the future. I think you too have long since received the call of the lawyer on duty asking if the amnesty or the indult arrives: there is therefore an attitude of waiting to have benefits. I would like to say, even if this is not about the amendment under consideration, that the overcrowding of prisons is an existing problem, but that, even if the government and the majority want to resolve it, they should at least deal with it systematically, unitely and evaluate an overall context, and not continuously intervening as you are doing, with punctual measures that we cannot even predict the results of: how many will be the freed? How many people will have arrests or house arrests? How will it affect the panorama of the problem of overcrowding? It's going to ease, but at what price? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u140	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 1,216, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 1,216 and amendments 1,217, 1,218, 1,219 and 1,220 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,221.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u143	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Amendment 1,221 is important because it provides for the exclusion of the institution of arrest and imprisonment for the offences mentioned, i.e. for the crime of illegal immigration. The subject of this amendment has opened an important debate in the Senate House in the last few hours, a debate which, in our opinion, is between those who demand that there be rules and that we enter Italy with rules, and those who say instead: Free everyone, come in and do whatever you want. The rules must be there. Those who arrive in Italy must know that we are not the Republic of bananas; those who arrive in Italy know and must know that, in order to enter our country - as others have done coming from outside - they must make specific requests. Then we will evaluate these requests, how and how they should be made, but there can be no such thing as irregular entry into this country. The crime of illegal immigration also exists in nearby Vatican City, colleagues. Mr Manconi (PD). It existed. It doesn't exist anymore. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Therefore, we do not see why it should not be so in democratic Italy, in advanced Italy, in Italy, especially a welcoming country that gave birth to many migrants from any region, who went to other countries of the world, to America, South America, in Europe, with rules, and before entering they respected these rules and suffered any visit possible and imaginable, before being able to enter. There had to be a contract of employment, very often. Being populists and saying that we must be good, we must go against the crime of illegal immigration, because the bad, ugly, dirty, barbaric, maybe even vulgar, of the League are asking for rules, in our opinion - contrary to the mayor of Florence, we do not have the Gospel in hand, we are not depositaries of the truth - means going against the Italian citizens. In this historic moment, when there are no jobs, when people don't arrive at the end of the month, when we see very often our pensioners during the markets do not go shopping, to buy, but look in the boxes of vegetables left by sellers to look for something edible, in which we see families and fathers of family who, not arriving at the end of the month, steal by hunger, say: "Free all, enter all without problems" means to go against the Italian people. We simply ask for compliance with the rules, we ask for nothing more: there is a law and this law must be respected. Some people, to refute our thesis, tell us that it didn't get results, but it's not true, and where it didn't get results, it's because there were magistrates who, puffing up the chest, told you: I didn't apply it. Mr President, if there is a law in Italy, it must be enforced. Mr Fornaro (PD). What does that have to do with this amendment? It's out of the question! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). So, our proposal is to keep... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, we are discussing Amendment 1,221. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mastrangelo]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). In fact, I am talking about amendment 1,221. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. We understand each other. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Mr President, so that I do not, at least, waste time on my fellow Members who, because it is Thursday, would rather go home than sit here and discuss a measure that is of interest to the Italians, but not to those who are doing their own business and are distracted. What we are therefore asking for is simply for our amendment to be adopted. Then everyone will take responsibility for what he votes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u146	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like, as the President of the Commission of the European Union has done, to simply do a truthful operation to clarify to us, but also to the public, what we are discussing here, on what presuppositions of existing legislation these rules are included and, from my point of view, what must be done to make the fight against illegal immigration more effective, and therefore illegal entry into our country. I am referring to those who do not respect our laws, who do not address embassies, that is, do not do what is right to do when you want to enter another country. I would like to remind you of what the President of the Commission has said. We are debating an amendment that has passed into the Commission justice, but this measure already provided, for all fines, for the fact that they were degraded to administrative offences. In fact, what happens today (I tell colleagues of the League, if they listen to me, because I think we could find some convergence with them too) is that the Ukrainian caregiver (or the girl who comes to study in Italy with a scholarship), if she expires her residence permit and is found, for example, at the market while shopping, commits a crime, the famous crime we are talking about, which translates into a fine. This case has created, both when the residence permits expired, and as regards the situation in Agrigento, colleagues of the League, some tens of thousands of criminal proceedings, and if they had a conclusion, they would end with a fine. I would remind everyone that Mr Bossi, with whom I built the Bossi-Fini law, was totally opposed to the crime of illegality at first instance for the simple reason that one can and must expel or reject an illegal immigrant without having to make a trial that lasts years, without committing several thousand lawyers and magistrates to the conclusion that at the end of the trial you can expel him, because you can expel him immediately administratively. If the person who is expelled or who received the paper does not return to his country, let's go see what the Bossi-Fini law says. The Bossi-Fini law provides that if that person returns to Italy he commits a crime and this crime is punished by a fine. But beware, go and read article 13, paragraph 13, of Legislative Decree n. 286 of 1998, which says that the foreigner who has been expelled from our country, if he returns illegally, is punished with imprisonment from one to four years and is again expelled with immediate accompaniment to the border. If he comes back, he's serving time. I would therefore point out that Article 2 of the measure decriminals the crime and turns it into an administrative offence, resolving in these terms the problem of the caregiver or of those who arrive in our country as a refugee. In this operation I tell the colleagues of all the Groups that we must also get into reality. The expulsion following the commission of a crime serves to fight the criminals. Therefore, those who know these situations know that in certain quaestures they have decorated themselves with gold medals thanks to the expulsions carried out by hunting caretakers or students to whom the residence permit had expired. We have sent so many people away in this way; they have sent away the Ukrainian caregiver, the Russian caregiver: they have done a great police operation! That is what raises social alarm. Of course, it is easier to take the caregiver than the drug dealer, who exploits prostitution, who delinque; arresting and expelling these subjects is much more difficult. Then we must also check how the rules are applied. This looks like a psychodrama to me. With a little reasonableness let's ask ourselves a question: where do we want to get to? I think everyone wants to get to defend the legality, to strike the wrongdoing, but making a distinction for the carer or the refugee who arrives in Italy with the boat, subjects to whom is sent a warranty notice (100, 200, 300, 400, 500) to make surreal trials. I ask the friends of the League: how many fines have been paid in recent years by those who have been subjected to criminal proceedings because they are illegal? How much has the State collected from the application of these fines? I get the impression he cashed zero euros. Some may object that after the sentence on payment of the fine, expulsion may take place. But then let's expel them now. Do we have to go with this whole ride? [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] I think I have made this issue more difficult, and I also believe that this Parliament can find a more suitable and more appropriate way of achieving the objective that we all want to achieve, namely to guarantee the legality of our country. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups and Senator Marino Luigi]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u147	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of amendment 1,221, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, up to the words "made of which" are mentioned. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 925, 110, 111, 113 and 666 PRESIDENT. The remainder of amendment 1,221 and amendment 1,222 are therefore excluded. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders was convened at 12.30 p.m. However, I would ask you not to leave the Chamber because this House could be called upon to consider any decisions that the Conference of Leaders should take on the timetable. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.28 p.m. and resumed at 13.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u148	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders redesigned the timetable already adopted last week. An afternoon sitting was scheduled for Tuesday 21 January, beginning at 9 a.m., during which the debate on amendments to the draft law on alternative measures to prison until 12.30 a.m. will continue, with the timing being shared between the groups. The explanations of vote will take place from 12.30 a.m. onwards, after which the final vote will be taken. The announced debate on the Minister of Justice's report at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 21 January is confirmed, with the timing divided between the Groups for 2 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote. The following week will discuss the topics not concluded during this week (design of law demolitions abusive works and documents defined by the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity, with the exception of document IV n. 3, for which was represented the need for a resumption of examination by the Junta) and the others already planned, as remains firm what already established for the following week. Finally, the Conference of Leaders decided, by a majority, to postpone the discussion of motions for resolutions on hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u151	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to propose an alternative timetable to what you have just set out, assuming that the debate on motions for resolutions on hydrocarbons was on the agenda for the sitting of 26 June 2013 and has been repeatedly postponed. I propose to continue, starting today, the examination of the bill n. 925 and, to follow, of the bill n. 580, possibly calendarizing it also on the night of today and until Friday morning. In view of the fact that in the afternoon session next Tuesday there will be the presence of Minister Chancellors I propose to insert two hours earlier, once the Minister is already here, our motion of individual distrust, presented on November 5, 2013, and, to follow, we confirm the calendar as you set out. I call for this proposal to be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Santangelo, we can put to the vote the proposal to continue the debate on the current draft law. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Mr President, I should like to explain. I ask for the continuation of the examination of the acts which have already begun today and, since the debate on the motions for resolutions on hydrocarbons has been removed from the timetable, I ask that we introduce the motion which we have tabled to the distrust of Mr Cancellieri, considering that the Minister will be present at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday. I would ask you to deal with this motion, which I remind you of, which was tabled on 5 November 2013, two hours earlier in order to avoid further organizational problems in the work of this House. I would ask you to vote on this proposed change to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u152	I get it. Since this is a partial change to the timetable, we can vote on the proposal to continue the examination of the draft law under discussion today and tomorrow. It could also propose that the debate on the motions for resolutions on hydrocarbons be resumed, but it was decided to postpone it to another place and not to introduce the motion of distrust. Moreover, since the Minister is expected to be here with the report, you know that you will not only be able to speak, but also that the Minister's own statement will end with a vote, which also has a political value. This is to say that your Group will also be able to communicate and express all the evaluations. We must therefore put to the vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u155	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, and I apologise to my fellow Members, but I will try to be even clearer. At the afternoon sitting next Tuesday, the Minister for Justice will be reporting on the administration of justice, on an issue which is therefore absolutely not relevant to the motion of individual distrust, which is quite another matter. Without prejudice to the sovereignty of the two branches of Parliament - and we remind the Members of this House and you, Mr President - it would be appropriate to vote on this motion. What we are asking is for the inclusion in the timetable of this motion to be put to the vote, in accordance with the proposed amendment that I have outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u156	I get it. I repeat that what I have read is only a redefinition of the timetable that was already voted on last week. The request to put to the vote the motion of individual distrust of Minister Chancellors had already been represented and not shared by the House. [[Comments of Senator Santangelo, who points out that he wants to intervene]] Excuse me, Senator Santangelo, but now there is also Senator Crosio who has asked to speak on the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u159	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wanted to make a point on the timetable. The Northern League Group agrees on the schedule of next week's work, but it is good to point out that this is the result of mediation. This morning there was an attempt to gag the opposition and we took a firm and firm stand. The majority's proposal was to move forward, with the same democratic arrogance, once again changing the timetable: you changed it last night, you changed it this morning and you still wanted to change it for next week. The timetable for next week's work is not changed. We are pleased that the majority have come to more meek advice with the Northern League Group during the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. We agree on that. However, Mr President, I would like to stress what happened last night, what we were told and guaranteed last night and which was then ignored this morning. The hope is that on Tuesday the commitments made by the majority, albeit shaky, will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u160	Senator Crosio, I believe that your Group has had ample opportunity to express its views. I understand that four hours and 20 minutes have already been taken. Nobody has been gagged, on the contrary, it seems to me that at various times you have represented, even in a way that does not comply with the rules of this House, your position of dissent. Anything can be said, therefore, except this; indeed, the opposite could be observed and, having personally presided over part of the work, I am a direct witness to it, and you know it perfectly well. Having said that, we must proceed to the vote on the proposed amendment of the timetable, tabled by Senator Santangelo, on the continuation of the work on the draft law under discussion today. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo, who asks to intervene.]] Senator Santangelo, that's right. SANTANGELO (M5S). Ma'am, let me talk to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you made a proposal. I give you the floor, but your proposal to continue work is clear: we must therefore vote on this, in contrast to the timetable adopted by a majority. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, my proposal relates to the continuation of work on the draft law under consideration and to the inclusion in the timetable of the debate of the motion of individual distrust against Mr Cancellieri, pursuant to Rule 53 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask you to put this proposal to the vote, pursuant to Rule 55 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, and then the House will be able to state what it considers most appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Santangelo, on this point the House has already spoken when it voted on the timetable on which we are working. SANTANGELO (M5S). She didn't say anything. Mr President, I have referred to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, and that is what you must adhere to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am sticking to the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you need a few minutes to refresh your memory of the Rules of Procedure, take the time you need. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What I am asking, however, is to include, in the afternoon sitting next Tuesday, before the Minister of Justice's report in the Chamber, the vote on the motion of individual distrust of the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u161	All right, Senator, you made a proposal, and you spoke three or four times. I respect your position, but I repeat to you that this proposal, which has already been put forward, has been rejected by the House. SANTANGELO (M5S). Under what Rules of Procedure? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have now made an adjustment to the timetable and we are voting on a change of timetable. You have put forward a proposal for the continuation of the work, which I shall put to the vote at this point, while, I remember, SANTANGELO (M5S). No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...I remember that the Conference of Leaders decided, by a large majority, on Tuesday morning. Then, I put to the vote the proposal to change the calendar put forward by Senator Santangelo... SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I call for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Santangelo, we are in the process of voting. I gave her the floor four times already. You can't always ask. Now I'm going to give you the floor for the last time, and then we're going to vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you must stick to the Rules of Procedure at this time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u162	Tell me what rules. I have told you and I repeat this once again: pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 3, I ask you to vote on my proposal, and you must vote on it. If you don't, tell me what rules you're following.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u163	The proposal has already been voted on under this timetable at last Wednesday's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u164	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you must tell me where it is planned, otherwise you must put it to the vote. The House will therefore be able to speak democratically on this possibility or on the other. You absolutely must put to the vote the President of the Five Star Movement Group's proposal on the calendar. So, please kindly... president. With the same kindness I have reminded you several times... SANTANGELO (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have had the floor many times. SANTANGELO (M5S). You are not referring to any Rules of Procedure. I ask you...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u165	It is now up to the Presidency to take the floor. Your proposal, within this timetable, I repeat, has already been voted on in recent days and rejected by the House. We are now voting on the redefinition of the timetable, having led this majority vote to the sitting on Tuesday. You have made a different proposal, and I therefore put it to the vote... SANTANGELO (M5S). The calendar has been changed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...while the Conference of Group Leaders expressed itself by a majority on the way in which the debate was concluded at the sitting on Tuesday morning, which were outlined. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Mr. President! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, put forward by Senator Santangelo. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the proposed amendment has been rejected, the timetable adopted by the Conference of the Leaders by a majority and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the dialogue is certainly complex. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I've given her the word several times, so I don't think I've done any forcing. SANTANGELO (M5S). His choice is absolutely subjective. I'll tell you... president. I take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u166	Mr President, allow me at least to speak without interruption. As the timetable has been changed, please have a second vote. Since a change has been made to the timetable, I would ask that the insertion of the motion of individual distrust of Minister Chancellors be taken into account in accordance with Article 55 (3). The House must express its views on this request which I am repeating.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u167	The House has already expressed its views on this proposal and, therefore, we are fully in compliance with the rules in accordance with Article 55 (4) as well. I took note of your assessment. We probably have a different opinion, but I took responsibility. President, this is not paragraph 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, please. Among other things, there will be a debate at Tuesday's sitting with the Minister for Justice, in which he will also be able to express much more on the subject than possible mistrust.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u170	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to bring to your attention, the House and the Government, the story that has matured these days. I'm referring to the news of that father who, about ten days ago, kidnapped his son and who, through his lawyer, is letting him know he wants to go home. Clearly, this gentleman is wanted by the police. In the meantime, the mother has turned, in addition to the police forces, also to "Who has seen him?" Other television broadcasts have taken up the case, and have done so with the usual unbearable and harmful mode, i.e. dealing with such delicate events with attitudes of morbidity that damage, in the first place, the right of minors to be protected and not fed to the media. Yesterday, for example, in television broadcasts (one on the RAI, the other on Channel 5) there was a very improper discussion of this story, and during the broadcast was also passed a video, which the father posted on YouTube, where you see the child with the father behind him who suggests to tell him how much he loves this father by blaming the mother. Beyond this story and the video on YouTube, on the one hand I stress the need for maximum respect for privacy to protect children, on the other hand I hope that this child can return to Italy and that the images broadcasted a few months ago when the police took the child away from Padua's kindergarten will not be transmitted again. I would also ask the Government to pay close attention to the police and social services so that the child, who has already been subjected to a particularly emotional and not only emotional situation, can return to peace and quiet. The other issue is the relationship we have with RAI. I believe that we should ask, on the one hand through the RAI Supervisory Committee and, on the other hand, by appealing to the Protocol of Understanding between the State and RAI, for a strengthening of the ethical code of the category, in order to really prevent journalists and conductors from using children's lives in such an unworthy way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u173	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, it is known that when the cat is not there mice dance. On 14 January a technical table agreed with the Superintendence the following with respect to the story of the University Library of Pisa, located in the Palazzo della Sapienza. What this technical table has decided is exactly how much I had been excluded from a meeting with the Ministers, that is the perpetual division of the Library, its dispersion, while every concrete assumption of responsibility on the building has been postponed. All this without even inviting - it is a technical table, it is argued - the representatives of the readers, and not even those of the students and departments involved. We ask ourselves: from which assemblies, from which academic Senates, from which council deliberations, from which public needs derive the decisions taken in this technical table? Is this the Pisan decision-making model? Contracting at the limit of the private between officials of dubious representativeness who exchange favors for their parishes in the absence of any project? In the absence of a public stand by the mayor and the rector? Is it by chance that these decisions are taken while our Minister, Mr Bray, is in Chile? Pisa risks being destined to remain a provincial city as long as it continues to leave room for the personal initiatives of this or that rector, or city councilor, without being able to involve citizenship in forward-looking projects, and especially until it involves citizenship in publicly declared projects. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u176	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Abruzzo and Aquila, the honest ones, are having very difficult days because of the continuous scandals and investigations that in the last few hours are sweeping away the entire political class involved in the management of the reconstruction phase in L'Aquila and Abruzzo. In addition to witnessing the almost certain and shameful reverse on the resignation by the mayor of L'Aquila Massimo Cialente, the citizens are now daily forced to swallow pills of evil, yet another this morning. The local press, in fact, reports the news of a school, the Institute for Geometries "De Nino-Morandi" in Sulmona, badly rebuilt with the earthquake funds. The Aquila magistrates, within the framework of the wider investigation into the affairs of the schools to be secured, have established that the school De Nino-Morandi would have been rebuilt with half foundations and would have cost, because of false invoices, five times more than it had to: from the initials 49,000 euros previewed up to 248,000 euros actually spent. The investigators considered the work carried out incomplete and liable to determine conditions of danger, as there are 32 micropales of the 80 provided for in the specifications necessary for the structural maintenance of the school. Colleagues, this story is part of the investigation carried out by the magistrates of the Aquila prosecutor's office concerning six schools in Avezzano and three in Sulmona, in which - the investigators say - some 4 million euros would already have been wasted under the pretext of an anti-seismic adjustment. We in the 5 Star Movement Group support the work of the judiciary in identifying the very serious criminal responsibilities, but we do not want to go back one inch in identifying the equally very serious political responsibilities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason, I come back again to ask the President of the Senate to set a time limit for expressing the opinions of the Commissions and the 13th Standing committee to schedule as soon as possible the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, at my first signature which aims to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into post-an earthquake reconstruction in Abruzzo. It is time for the Senate Assembly to give a strong signal against the system of corruption and collusion that has dominated the municipal administration of L'Aquila. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u179	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to ask the written reply to Question 4-01200, which I tabled with Senators Granaiola and Amati. It is the realization of an fish market in Viareggio. The City Council of Viareggio, with resolution n. 756 of 26 October 2007, approved the executive project of the center. The new market should have been completed by mid-2009; to date work is still under construction. I quote that in the Tuscany Region, relative to 2005-2011, there has been a decrease of approximately 30 percent of the boats. In particular, in the city of Viareggio, home to one of the most important Tuscan marineries, where was established the Citadel of fishing (an organization of all the producers of the marineries of Viareggio) to face the crisis of the sea and economic, against the 146 boats recorded in 2007 today there are little more than 100 and there is a very strong crisis. In the question that you have recalled a moment ago we ask the Minister of agricultural, food and forestry policies to intervene to the municipal administration of Viareggio so that the management of the new fishing center, as soon as completed, is immediately entrusted to the organization of the producers, in order to resolve the economic crisis of the sea and the marineries and to realize the famous short supply chain, that it would allow to start a small increase in that part of the Tuscany region.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u182	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, my speech was not planned, but given the change in the timetable, I think it is appropriate to say a few words. The citizens of the House have already shown us lobbyists outside the Commissions and recordings, so I thought I had seen everything, but knowing that Silvan is participating in the Conference of Leaders and making a motion disappear already scheduled is another novelty that I learned today. For seven months, president. It's not like that. The timetable is decided by the group leaders and then, when there is no agreement, by the House, as was the case today, absolutely in full transparency. CASTALDI (M5S). If you will allow me to conclude, thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, but if you say things clearly unreal, I have the right to point out. CASTALDI (M5S). It is not unreal that the debate on the motions on hydrocarbons has disappeared from the calendar. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I meant the magician Silvan. CASTALDI (M5S). Also, Vice President Gasparri, I saw you defend Mr Renzi today, who pretends to be a political opponent. He had clearly stated that if he were the secretary of the PD the Chancellor would go home, yet you do not have the courage to schedule a motion of no confidence on the Minister of Justice. This is the reality of the facts. But above all, I resent my colleagues, who tell me that there is no bipolarism in Italy, because there are three political forces. It is not true, bipolarism in this country is: business committee on one side and citizens on the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u183	The timetable, of course, is set by the Conference of Leaders and, when there is no agreement, voted by the House. That is also what happened on the motion of no confidence. Those who chair must respect the Rules of Procedure and not interpret them according to their own political views, which everyone can also express in this House and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-168.ana.u184	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.57 p.m.
