ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u4	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported) I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Following the quorum check) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 116, 273, 296, 394 and 546, in the unified text proposed by the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure on candidacy and political and administrative eligibility and the relocation of judges to non-elective public functions tends to respond to a long-standing issue and to the problems that have touched on Italian politics and the relationship between politics and the judiciary for over twenty years. The situation, at least for me, from the theoretical point of view is clear, because those who perform the function of magistrate in our order, not only in the case of the exercise of judicial functions, but also in the case of the exercise of commanding functions, must correspond, in fact and in appearance, to the principle of impartiality. As is well known, the magistrate deals with issues of particular importance that affect individual freedoms, but also economic relations between subjects that characterize Italian society. The magistrate therefore expects a position of absolute thirdness, which must be guaranteed both by concrete behavior and by the image they give. Membership of a political force, that is to say, being candidates to represent a political force or a political movement in the institutions, both national and local, certainly calls into question the position of third parties and impartiality, at least from a theoretical point of view. Concrete behavior can certainly refute this hypothesis, but we need to remove any residual prejudice to the work of public officials who perform such a delicate function. It is not a question of denying the right of citizens from the judiciary to be elected, nor is it a question of depriving politics and its political-administrative institutions of the cultural and professional contribution of members of the judiciary. We must, however, eliminate any suspicion of an instrumental use of the role of magistrate. We must not give rise to any prejudice, because the magistrate - as I said - acts on particularly sensitive issues concerning the lives of citizens and, therefore, the position of impartiality must be the first requirement. By this provision we intend to regulate the matter so that the judge, and in general the magistrate, may appear impartial. Unfortunately, there is no clear separation between the judge and the prosecution in our system. In other laws the prosecutor, the magistrate who exercises the function of the prosecution, can be excluded from strict regulations with respect to the guarantee of protection of his image, since we know that he is even elected by the citizens in certain countries. In the Italian law, however, the prosecutor has the same characteristic as the third judge, since we are still dealing with a very clear rule regarding the mandatory prosecution, and therefore we cannot fail to consider within this issue also a position that, I repeat, in other laws is considered excluded. The separation of careers would certainly have been a contribution to clarity from this point of view, but it has not been achieved, although progress has been made in recent years. We must therefore deal not only with the third judge but also with the magistrate of the prosecution. Repeatedly it happened that magistrates, in particular of the prosecution, were chosen or climbed into politics and then decided to return to the function of the magistrate, both the prosecution and the judge. (Some senators converse aloud with the speakers.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u10	Excuse me, Senator Buemi, but I must turn to the Commission table: theoretically the rapporteurs should reply. I do not say to listen, but at least to pretend to do so, avoiding even disturbing those who intervene. Senator De Petris, please, it's impossible to work like this!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Many situations could be overcome. I believe that the measure before us is a step forward, but it can be improved in the course of the debate in this House. Limits remain in the current draft, because once again we have not wanted to deal courageously with this issue which - I repeat - absolutely does not want to penalise, from the point of view of career or economic treatment, those who make choices that concern the civic commitment of all citizens and their possibility to be elected in the highest institutions of our country. A problem certainly poses him the return to judicial activity. If from the point of view of descent, or ascent, some appropriate measures have been introduced in politics (something more could have been done, but in any case I think there has been a clarification and an acceptable regulation), there remain very strong limits regarding the return to judicial activity. These limits are highlighted in the possibility not only of the judge to return to be the judge, but also in the possibility of the investigator magistrate to return to perform this function, completely losing the image of impartiality and third-partyness that citizens expect, and in particular those who must undergo, in the stages of the trial, the sanction of the law applied by the magistrate. I believe that we must face with serenity and without vindictive or vindictive spirit the examination of legislation that allows the Italian judiciary to be freed from prejudice of partiality. I repeat: the concrete facts may deny this prejudice, but we have an obligation to ensure its total removal, at least for judges in good faith. Going to the substance of some questions left open, I think it is necessary to clarify and clarify better the scope of the new use of the magistrate when this returns to assume a role of public officer, that is, of the one who is called to carry out functions of particular importance for our country. From this point of view, I believe that we must surely guarantee the return to a professional activity comparable to that of the magistrate, but not to the activity of magistrate. These indispensable professionalisms for our country can be reused in the Billing, in the Ministries, in international commissions, in all public administrations where a particular sensitivity to the principle of legality is necessary. At the same time, I believe that we must pay particular attention to economic issues. There is still legislation in place that allows the magistrate to choose between the parliamentary allowance and the magistrate's salary, which very often, contrary to the opinion of the citizens and the popular population, is still higher than that of the Members of Parliament. I have therefore tabled an amendment which seeks to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this aspect. We must ensure equal treatment, for good and for bad, for all citizens who decide to face the burden and honour of the elective function at all levels. I therefore expect the Government to clarify the issue of equal treatment between judges and other civil servants on leave. If there is an indisputable clarification from the Government to that effect, I will withdraw the amendment. However, Mr President, the question of the diversity of economic treatment between private and public employees remains open when they are called upon to perform elective functions. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u12	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u13	Mr President, today we are debating a very sensitive issue. We are talking, in fact, about the margins that distinguish the activity of the magistrate and the exquisitely political activity. The points on which we are examining are well known. On the one hand, there is a call for a clear separation between judicial activity and political activity. On the other hand, however, we must bear in mind that judicial citizens can freely decide to avail themselves of their constitutionally guaranteed right to elective office. One of the many points on this issue concerns the figure of the magistrate elected to Parliament and the possibility for the latter to return to the roles of the court of origin with an expired term of office. Now, while it seems impossible to exclude, subject to reasonable limitations, the right of every citizen - including, therefore, the citizens of the judiciary - to assume elective positions in conditions of equality, the need to intervene with a law especially at the final moment of the electoral mandate is appalled, in order to protect the essence and the image of the magistrate and the judiciary itself, thus avoiding passages from one career to another which, in reality, may not be fully understandable even to our fellow citizens. In the course of this parliamentary term, the question has been raised again with the presentation of several draft laws, and there have been many issues that we have dealt with in Commissions 1a and 2a together. From the very beginning, as had already happened in previous legislatures, it emerged precisely the need to find a balance between the various proposals, and a balance, therefore, between the different interests that are constitutionally protected: the right of passive electorate, the right of the magistrate to participate in political life as well as other citizens (as enshrined in Article 51 of the Constitution), but also the issues related to the image and exercise of jurisdiction. On the subject there were also case law and specialized doctrines, lamenting procedural shortcomings and the absence of a complete regulatory framework. Beyond the more technical terminologies contained in this measure, however, we must realize the important step that we are going to face at this very moment in history and politics. Our Constitution has already provided for a clear separation between powers (judicial, legislative and executive powers): all powers created to be distinguished. There has been a sort of fog around the work of the judiciary itself, as well as around political activity: these are fogs that we must absolutely unravel; we must try to remove any kind of pollution from the activity that is being carried out, or even just the suspicion of pollution, because at this moment - we must remind all our fellow citizens - confidence is being lost in all the institutions, first of all in the branch of Parliament in which we sit, but also in the function and role of the magistrate. It seems, in fact, that there are always suspicions about the type of activity, whether it can be politically oriented or not. Therefore, it is important to make passages such as those provided for in the text under consideration. These are important moments that must serve to start putting stakes in the activities that are carried out: the activities of the politician and those of the magistrate. As then we will be able to make it all, we will see in the examination of the text, which is quite complex in some of its passages, and in which surely we note the spirit of the Commissions justice and constitutional affairs to try to find that point of encounter between these requirements: on the one hand, to keep clearly separate the activities of the magistrate and those of the politician; on the other hand, to recognize, however, the magistrates a freedom, a sure right to access political offices and, at the end of these, to return to doing their work. These are passages that may not seem so loud, because they are not themes that touch the belly of those who follow us, but they are very important for our democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Albertini and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u14	Colleagues, this is the second time I have made a call, after which I suspend the session. The measures are closed in the Commission and we come to the House without having to discuss them at the Commission's desk. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u15	Mr President, it has already been pointed out in this House that the draft law now before us is the result of a long journey, which began in particular in the previous parliamentary term. Certainly, at the point of method, the choice to lay down special rules for magistrates who want to engage in politics can be welcomed. In my opinion, however, the decision to address the specific issue of the status of magistrates with regard to politics is less acceptable, in a completely separate and independent way from a comprehensive reform of the regulatory system on the ineligibility and incompatibility of parliamentarians. Not by chance, days ago, I stressed the need to accompany the same path that must lead to a new electoral law with the contextual examination of a new organic legislation on ineligibility, incompatibility, incandidability and even compensation of parliamentarians. In this overall plan of reform of electoral legislation in the broadest sense, it would have been reasonable to extrapolate the legislation on the various magistrates, whose components cannot certainly be considered as other civil servants. It is this latter approach which represents the basic philosophy of the draft law we are considering today, which is largely due to the commendable efforts of the rapporteur, Mr Casson, and which is supported by recent constitutional jurisprudence. I intend to refer to the pronunciation note of Consulta No. 223 of 11 October 2012, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of articles 9, paragraphs 2 and 22, and 12, paragraph 10 of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010. Although with regard to economic issues, the Constitutional Court has emphasized the constitutional peculiarity of the status of magistrates. Precisely the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, which undoubtedly represent a pivotal, if not unchangeable, principle of our Constitutional Charter, must be able to combine with another fundamental value of the Constitution, enshrined in Article 51, according to which all citizens (including magistrates) under conditions of equality have the right to access the elected offices, as laid down in the first paragraph. In addition, those who are called to elective public functions have the right to maintain their jobs, in accordance with the third paragraph. Around these three constitutional provisions revolves the sense of the bill under consideration, whose contents are known and I am not here to repeat them pedessequamente. Public opinion pays great attention to the issue of the ineligibility and incompatibility of magistrates, certainly now more than in the past. The same phenomena that led to a certain delegitimization of politics - that is to say in 1992 clean hands and Tangentopolis and 15 years after the so-called anti-political (still in progress) - have called into question the role of the judiciary, first of all the ordinary penal one, but also, especially recently, the administrative and accounting one. Added to this are the most recent polemics against the administrative magistrates because of the positions of Government covered, agitated in particular, first, by Romano Prodi and then, last, by the same entourage of President Renzi. So, let this bill come along, but it represents - to be very clear - a "stralcio" also from another point of view: not only with regard to the overall status of the parliamentarians, but also with regard to a new organic discipline of the status of the magistrates, especially with regard to extrajudicial duties and their limits, not being able to consider the recent legislation to be entirely satisfactory. I intend to refer to paragraphs 66 et seq. of Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2012 (the so-called anti-corruption law), from which it originated - as is known - also the so-called Severino law. However, in this case, the Government has not exercised the delegation referred to in Article 67, which concerned precisely the identification of additional tasks, also in the offices of direct collaboration which, in addition to those referred to in paragraph 66 (i.e. the apical and semi-apical ones), involve the mandatory placement in an out-of-role position. This confirms that, perhaps, it would have been appropriate to intervene on the overall status of the magistrates, where there are still obvious gaps, and not only on the ineligibility and incompatibility of political positions. With this double reservation, rather than method, but which also becomes of substance, for us the judgment on the individual prescriptions of the bill can only be positive. On the other hand, the criteria already set out in Article 8 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957 are based on the criteria, so that more extensive consequences can be drawn in a way consistent with the fundamental choice to prevent problems of conflict of interest from arising, both before and after a candidacy and the conduct of an electoral mandate. In an attempt to balance various constitutional values at stake, however, it is also necessary to avoid providing for reverse discrimination. In this sense, it seems to me frankly excessive the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 1, according to which magistrates who, at the time of acceptance of the candidacy, have not been on leave for at least six months, in the event of the natural expiry of the legislature or the provincial or municipal council, except in the case of early dissolution, for which it is sufficient to ask for the placement in expectation within ten days from the date of dissolution itself. On the other hand, it seems to me excessive to ask a magistrate to put on leave six months before the elections because of a candidacy, which may not even take place given the considerable amount of time that is still missing. I guess it's an unpaid leave. There may be a need for further reflection on this point. On the other hand, I believe that the new institution for the relocation of magistrates who have already been elected to the national or European Parliament, as well as magistrates who have held positions of national or local government, can be welcomed. In essence, a period is introduced consistently at the various stages which we could improperly define as a five-year procedure, borrowing the juslavoristic formula, in the sense that the candidate and unelected magistrate cannot perform any function in offices included in his own constituency for a period of five years since the elections took place. In addition, relocation is linked to the exercise of collegial functions for a period of five years. With regard to judges who have ceased their parliamentary mandate, whether national or European, the institution of retirement provision is also provided for, with the possibility of voluntary continuation of pension contributions for a period not exceeding five years of service. Finally, I believe that Article 13 of the draft law, which includes among the causes of abstention and objection, referred to in Articles 36 and 37 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, also the participation in electoral competitions or the holding of positions of government, when one of the parties, this time in the previous ten years (it is not clear why only in this case a ten-year period is established), participated in electoral consultations and held positions of government itself. Perhaps the reference to a period of ten years could be considered excessive, even if it could be recalled in this case the usual term of five years. In conclusion, we express a positive opinion on the overall philosophy of the bill and on the innovations it entails in relation to the current discipline, which responds to the expectations of the public that there is a system of further guarantees and qualified for the performance of the functions of the magistrates, that is to say one of the cornerstones of the modern state. Politics and the judiciary are not dialectical elements, nor sides of the same coin, but fundamental elements, each in its own sphere, of the democratic state, which can only be based on free, genuine and periodic elections, and the rule of law, which is based on independent and autonomous judges both within itself and with respect to the pressures of politics. In this sense, the text before us represents a step forward, which is as necessary as ever, in this direction. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u16	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u17	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, my colleague Senator Stefano would have liked a broader measure to regulate ineligibility and incompatibility in many respects. On the other hand, however, he himself, recognizing to the measure in our examination the dignity of taking a step forward in any case, pointed out how bankrupt the so-called Severino law has been in this respect, of which Mr Stefano can rightly claim the rank of one of the highest connoisseurs in this House. The measure under consideration is a necessary law. I hope it has not come too late because, as Senator Buemi said this morning, the subject of the legislation before us is, above all, the time for the return, the time for the relocation of elected candidates or candidates to a political office. However, at the same time, what you aspire to regulate is also, downhill or uphill, the entrance. Yesterday afternoon the excellent speaker, Senator Zanettin, recalled the phenomena Di Pietro, De Magistris, Ingroia, characterized by an excess of politicization of the attribution to themselves of "meriti" in the prosecution. If we want to escape the vulgarity of that history of Italy, without personalizing (because, as far as Di Pietro can arouse disgust, similar sentiment aroused in me since 1992 its chief prosecutor, Dr. Borrelli, who derived from the intensity of the consensus of the public opinion the exercise of the prosecution), we must recognize, and I address in particular to Senator Buemi, that the stakes that had foreseen our Constitution against the politicization of the exercise of the prosecution have proved fragile, small and have been killed because they were placed in the place that turned out to be wrong. We had placed them in graduating the right to participate in the life of the parties, precisely because - let's stop with these hypocrisies: the partycracy is not the daughter of the Christian or socialist democratic currents, it is a choice even before the Constitution, which the country made at the Congress of the CLN held in Bari in 1944 - in the second Risorgimento (let's think about a formula like the CLN) the parties were the strong moment of politics. And then from that point of view those stakes that the Constituent had put there were of little use, because Zanettin, with the examples he carried, called us to the most widespread, misunderstanding and evil-smelling exercise of anti-party, done in the exercise of the prosecution by those names that did not honor the robe they wore and that recalled yesterday the same speaker. With the Bicameral presided over by D'Alema they have also failed - let us say this - the hope and hope of entrusting to Article 111 of the Constitution a rediscovery of neutral powers and powers of guarantee. The neutral power and the power of guarantee in a democracy founded on universal suffrage is that distance that separates the gubernaculum (as once defined what today, in times of politology, we call government) from iurisdictio. This was therefore not the place where to deal with the problem of a distinction between prosecution and judgment, and related careers. For the sake of Rule 111, we hope that we can do so on another occasion. To those dark moments in the national history that the rapporteur Zanettin quoted yesterday, I would also like to add the vile and wrinkled aggression that was perpetrated at that time and by those same characters against magistrates who had honored the toga, who had returned to law and not to public opinion. I think of Filippo Mancuso, who is no longer there, and Corrado Carnival, who is still there. What, thanks to this set of rules, we would like the order to recover is not the much celebrated independence and autonomy of the judiciary, which now guarantees itself and imposes itself, sometimes with real squadrism. On the same level, in a liberal conception of the system, there are independence and autonomy from the judiciary. For these rules that help to be and appear independent I too make the ritual quote of Calamandrei, many times taken up by Sandro Pertini and who have made many colleagues. From this point of view we hope that the debate and the vote on the amendments will improve the text to which we have looked with great sympathy and very favorable; even more accentuated sentiments when we saw that there is a friend like Enrico Costa, to whom all the senators of the New Centre send a very affectionate and heartfelt wish for good work and to whom I can recall the sympathy and commonness of liberal ethical and political ideals that have linked me to his father, Minister of the Republic in various sectors and Vice Minister - I think - also to justice, where Enrico has succeeded him for ten days very much. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u18	I greet the students of the Oppido-Molochio-Varapodio Institute of Oppido Mamertina, in the province of Reggio Calabria, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law has unfortunately turned, for the words of many speakers, on an occasion of attack, almost revancism, towards the judiciary, which has given this country so much in terms of defending legality, democracy and law, and which we are all used to remember only on the days when the massacres are commemorated. Instead, we forget about it every other day, when many citizens of the judiciary do their duty, carrying out justice in this country, with the scarce resources that are made available to them and the confused and contradictory laws that are passed. The 5 Star Movement says something clear, colleagues: we cannot lend ourselves to operations that we do not share. If the wording of Article 13 were to remain that provided for in the text of the draft law in question, in these terms establishing a new case of forms of abstention and recusal by the judge, we would announce that we would vote against it. In fact, the forms of abstention and recusal by the judges are already governed by the Code in a clear and precise manner and do not need any further. This bill speaks of something else, and this rule, inserted in this context, with an incredible extension to ten years - which are almost a lifetime for someone - is frankly not homogeneous to the text or to the purposes that should be underlying its approval. In calling on the rapporteurs to reconsider this rule, we will vote in favour of the deletion of Article 13 proposed by the Mixed-SEL Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, in wishing you well, I hope there will be a chance of positive cooperation, as we have experienced in the past parliamentary term with you and the Minister, even in different roles. I have heard a number of unfounded comments today. Senator Buemi referred to the privileged treatment of magistrates when that legislation concerns public employees. Senator Stefano has come to talk to us about our own idea, namely the Justice Commission, to predict, in the event that there are fixed-term political elections, that the magistrate has been on leave for six months: but it has always been so and still is today. Senator Giarrusso wants to see some other problem around the hypothesis of abstention and recusal: great magistrates, such as Senese and Rizzo, have returned to carry out the collegial function and have refrained, after being senators and MPs. This is the rule, even if it is not written: it is not true what Stefano said, that is that it has been spoken about only now for the first time, since the beginning of the judiciary. On the other hand, the judiciary has been debating this issue for thirty years, because the constitutional values of its independence and autonomy are only instrumental in achieving the function of impartial guarantee proper to the jurisdiction. And for this to happen, President Pertini said that the connotation of independence must also concern appearance. I quit, and I'm not going back to the judiciary. But how do you want a magistrate, after making politics, to go and administer justice in a completely different context? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] I take account of the balance between the constitutional rules. Article 51 of the Constitution, in my opinion, prevents you from saying that you can no longer be a magistrate. Those who were present in the Commission know that I have fought a battle to say that those who are politicians or, for example, are candidates as city councillors, when they return to the judiciary they have to perform only collegial functions. I would have taken ten years, but we found the mediation at five years: so for five years he can take neither managerial nor semi-directive positions. There is a competition in the judiciary to be a magistrate and not the manager or the prosecutor. The deformation in this country after Clean Hands has led to the consequences we have heard. Abstention and recusal are warranty clauses for the judge, the state and the citizens, so that that function of impartial guarantee of the jurisdiction can be realized. But today I hear: no, we have to look at corporate positions, at defending personal positions. Are you kidding me? Or to glimpse which architecture around a law desired for years. When Pertini said independence must be about appearance, what did he mean? Pertini said, rightly, that even if you are the most correct person in this world, the very fact that you are a candidate (beware that then you were applying as an independent Left in the Communist Party), it does not matter if independent or not independent, it must have its own connotation so as to guarantee you the return, because the Constitution prescribes it, but there is a serious problem of reflection. That is why I am addressing the rapporteurs and the Government. I have proposed alternative amendments which may even appear schizophrenic, because in the Commission there was an alternative between three possibilities for the magistrate, almost as if we were to guarantee him a free choice once he left Parliament. The first is that one can go to be a lawyer of the State, but the Attorney explained not only the problems of constitutionality that would exist, but even the difficulties existing in the same Advocate: today in order to go from prosecutor to lawyer one must take an examination; not to mention the fact that, even with an autonomous role, this would be an economic gain for the magistrate, so there would be a prize. In addition, this possibility conflicts with Article 51 of the Constitution. A second possibility is created, which is that of an autonomous role of the Ministry of Justice. But do you realize that any party could tomorrow guarantee itself, through this system, the occupation of entire posts in the Ministry of Justice by preventing any Minister from making a different political choice? The third choice is the obligation of collegial functions for five years and non-access to managerial and semi-directive functions. The two amendments I have proposed are alternatives precisely because you have to choose. I choose the collegial function and remove the other two hypotheses that conflict with the constitutional principle. The fact of ending political activity must not be a prize for the magistrate: it must only be given the opportunity to work in a college. At the same time, when working in a college there are the rules of abstention, which apply even if you had been part of any association, such as Catholic Action. If you're in Catholic Action, you've all got leadership duties and you're going to be a magistrate, you're sticking to what was with you: these are the minimum rules that apply to the magistrate. So, let's make a rule that has its own logic, its own meaning and that guarantees that appearance of independence, which serves to guarantee the equality of citizens. The independence of the judge is not a value in itself, as is his autonomy: they are only instrumental values. The guarantee and impartiality of jurisdiction only serves to ensure equality of citizens before the law. Appearance also comes to guarantee us this. Certainly there may also be a magistrate who is the leader of a political party and is also able to guarantee the equality of citizens before the law, but it is not this concept that we must defend: we must defend the principle that when the citizen goes before the judge, he must have the perception that he is a person who guarantees him the impartiality that the Constitution demands. It is in this logic that the amendments must be seen, forgetting those positions of corporate defence that are no longer sponsored within the judiciary. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u23	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very important and delicate stage in the work that has taken place in the Committees and Constitutional Affairs, and which is now arriving in this House. As with other measures, rules finally come into this Parliament which take into account a long debate and which are in a position to give serious and balanced solutions to issues that are otherwise at risk of becoming entrenched, on which the moment of reflection has come to an end and which have also outlined various positions within society and in the same policy. So it is with regard to the rules we are examining, in terms of candidate status, eligibility and relocation of judges at the various elections, both political and administrative, as well as at the European elections, which are equally important and we will soon have to face. Colleagues, first of all we must clear the field of some statements, which have also emerged in this morning's debate, namely that we are finding solutions to compress the function of the judiciary, as if we wanted to avenge ourselves on the exercise of the judiciary, regardless of a serious reflection on the role that the magistrates have played in our democratic system, on the contribution they have made in the fight against the mafias and against terrorism and on the maintenance of the high levels of legality in our country. Let us clear the field: let us leave this opposition behind and let us see that Parliament has a system view, with a system objective, that is able to strike a balance between the constitutional value of the autonomy and independence of the judiciary and the value of the exercise of the right to participate in electoral consultations. I think that the balance has now been achieved in the Commission and is being proposed again here in this House. There have been two schools of thought in the Commission, supported across the board by the various parliamentary groups, and in the same internal reflection on the judiciary and associations, including the National Association of Judges. One idea was to foresee new rules, raising the bar to determine a possible return of the candidate magistrate to his function; the other idea, opposed at the beginning, was to prevent the relocation of the candidate magistrate, elected or not elected (if elected, at the end of his institutional function, if not elected, immediately after, preventing the return to the function of magistrate and providing for a relocation within the public administration). These two addresses at first were far from each other, in fact they were in contrast. I think, as I proposed in the Commissions, that this conflict should be avoided. It would have been a sterile conflict, called by the expert zero-sum conflict: in the end, that is, we would have produced no results. We have chosen a path, which we have indicated, which is to ensure both solutions. I repeat: both solutions. I have now listened to Senator Caliendo, who reminded the House of his position on a sort of structural incompatibility between the function of magistrate and the function of representative of the institutions. But I remember well - he said here - that Senator Caliendo did not exclude the return to the function of the judiciary. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in line with our Constitution and with a mature reflection that has taken place, we anticipate the possibility of raising the bar when a magistrate has to run. This bar must provide that the candidacy does not affect its function, predeterminating the choice to run in a political game that is practiced while still working as a magistrate. We have therefore envisaged the possibility of there being, of course, also for the magistrate, the evaluation of running, but this must be free from any political game. Therefore, he must have access to the possibility of running outside of any mediation while he is still a magistrate. We also discussed the magistrate who, once elected or not elected, must return to his office. I think that the balance we have achieved is very serious: the magistrate returns and cannot carry out managerial and semi-directive functions. We also found another balance in the Commission, which is to use the magistrate in a collegiate role. There is also a debate on this: it is a point of balance, because here too, in this House, we are discussing the possibility of maintaining it or not. We believe that this balance that has been achieved together in the Commission can be maintained, but it is not an objective and solid balance - let us call it that. The judiciary itself agrees. The National Association of Judges has been proposing for years that the return be in collegial function, because there is a question that we have all reiterated here: autonomy and independence must also appear, as well as be. We therefore need to think carefully about this issue - we will return to you in the debate on the amendments in this House - which is linked to Article 13 and the issue of the judge's abstention and objection. Ladies and gentlemen, as we shall see in the vote on the amendments, we believe that a transitional rule should be laid down in order to prevent the wrong readings from being made. We also believe that all the rules, when they affect such fundamental rights, must be able to act without retro-pensive and without penalising exercises, also because we have ordinary rules on abstention and recusal that secure the ongoing processes. And then we think that maybe ten years is too many, because we predict five years for other circumstances. Therefore, a reflection on the amendment that proposes equalisation and therefore the five years also on abstention and objection should be made, with an assessment that we hope will be positive. Colleagues, we will now enter into the examination of the amendments. I think that, like yesterday, when we dealt with the sensitive issue of torture, we can find agreements that break the pattern and give nobility to the work of this House, so that we can come to positive and virtuous conclusions that will enable us to say that we have done a good job on this historic point too. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u25	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u28	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to apologise, on behalf of my fellow Members, for the liveliness of the debate that led the Presidency to a call. But let me tell you, as I speak, that I consider your criticism to be ingenious when you say that the measures are being studied in the Commission. I believe that this measure has been deepened within the framework of the Joint Commissions. It is no coincidence that it has come to its launch, if I recall correctly, unanimously or almost unanimously. As you know, Mr President, then there is an amendment stage in this House and the debate focused precisely on one or two amendments, on which, because of the composition of the Commission, the majority and the opposition, and that objective which we have always sought to achieve in the Commission, namely unanimity, the debate had developed. But this was not about the old, but about the amendments tabled, which obviously could not be known in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u29	Senator Palma, my curiosity is always born from these measures adopted unanimously in the Commission and on which I see you quarreling at the desk of the Commissions. Obviously in a productive sense for the House and for the country! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You'll see how it ends. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since neither the rapporteurs nor the representative of the Government intend to speak in response, I would like to inform the Presidency that the views expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's Minutes, have been received.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u30	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 1,100 to 1,106, while I am in favour of Amendment No 1,107. Two words to explain that some of these amendments have also been dealt with within the Commissions and that the text which has been formulated on Article 1, as has been said on several occasions, is of balance between the most restrictive and the broadest demands. It is therefore considered that the text of the Commissions is substantially confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u31	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u34	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u35	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,102 tabled by Senators De Petris and De Cristofaro. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u38	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur for his explanation of vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u41	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, the general assessment we have made as rapporteurs is that, with particular reference to this amendment, there were requests to restrict the territory to the Municipality alone and other times to extend it to the Region and we found the balance in the province. That is why we call on Senator Cuomo to withdraw according to the broad majority of the Commissions and this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cuomo, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u42	Mr President, on the basis of the rapporteur's explanatory statement, I withdraw the amendment, warning the rapporteur himself and the House that there are cases in which the provincial territory does not coincide with the court. A clear example of this type of judicial geography is the court of Naples Nord, which insists on Aversa which instead is the province of Caserta. There is a dysmetry that greater attention should lead us to evaluate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u45	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, while I agree with Senator Cuomo's observation, I recall that the problem arises not only between Province and Province, but also between Region and Region: the latest changes in judicial geography, from this point of view, have introduced some elements of perversity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u46	Thank you for your clarification, Senator Buemi. Amendment 1,103 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,104, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.105. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,105 tabled by Senators De Petris and De Cristofaro. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.106. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,106 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.107. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator Caliendo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 1 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u47	Mr President, we call on the presenter to reformulate the amendment by adding a paragraph in which, in any case, it is without prejudice to violations of criminal law. In that case, the rapporteur's opinion would be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u48	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u49	Senator Buemi, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u52	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u53	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,100 (text 2) tabled by Senator Buemi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 3 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendment 4,100 was tabled, which has been withdrawn. We shall then proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u54	I am against Amendment 5,100. I also think that I should give a favourable opinion on the wording of amendment 51.02 proposed by Senator Buemi with a clarification. To the third last line of point (b), after the words: "by a collegiate body" I propose to add the words: "indicated in point (a) ". In other words, reference is made to the magistrates of the general prosecutors at the Court of Cassation, the Council of State, the Court of Central Auditors, the Military Court of Appeal and the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor's Office who, when they are not elected, should return to a collegiate body referred to in point (a), such as the magistrates who were already members of the Court of Cassation, the Council of State, the Court of Central Auditors and the Military Court of Appeal. Therefore, with this rewording, the opinion on amendment 51.02 is in favour. Consequently, I call on you to withdraw Amendment 5101. I am also in favour of amendment 5,103, and I would like to withdraw amendment 5,104 following the rewording of amendment 5,102 which has already been clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u55	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u56	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 Senator Palma, the rapporteur has requested that Amendment 5101 be withdrawn. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Buemi accept the rewording of amendment 5.102 proposed by the rapporteur? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 51.02 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 51.02 (text 2) tabled by Senator Buemi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,103 tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 Senator Palma, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendment 5.04? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u57	Mr President, Amendment 6,100 concerns the most controversial aspect of the measure. In the text launched by the Commission, the magistrate elected to the National Parliament or the European Parliament, when he left political activity, has several options, one of which is the relocation to the judiciary, that is to say back to being the magistrate. This was one of the most controversial aspects because in the Commission it was discussed whether or not to bring the magistrate out of politics into the judicial order, or to convey him to the State. Hence the amendment in question, which simply leaves the House completely free to take this decision. On the underlying problem there are two currents of thought, and I will be allowed by President Stefano not to share the content of his speech on the right to the preservation of the place, because on the point - already mentioned by Senator Casson in his report - the Constitutional Court itself allows a weakening of that constitutional principle, especially when the constitutional principles at stake are more than one, (in this case, that of the right to the preservation of the place, referred to in Article 51, and that of the third party of the judge, referred to in Article 111). So, basically, in the balance of these two constitutional values, what we need to establish, by voting favorably or adversely on this amendment, is whether the magistrate who leaves political life can go back to being a magistrate, that is to go to the State Court. Moreover - it is a fact of which I am sufficiently aware - would go to do an absolutely similar job, but with a not indifferent economic advantage, being known to all (the situation is really not understandable) that the lawyers of the State, in addition to the remuneration that comes from the State, arrive also the subdivisions of the so-called fees in case of victory and the so-called fees that the administrations pay to the State even in case of defeat. This, in terms of spending review, of revisiting spending, seems to be really a profound anomaly. What I personally think is that when the magistrate enters political activity, at the moment of his exit, and therefore of his possible relocation in role, it is not that he does not recover his impartiality, but certainly does not recover the appearance of his impartiality. It is no coincidence, for example, that one of the best magistrates we have had - I am referring to the Attorney General of the Ugo Guarnera Supreme Court - in 1972 (dating time, but the problem does not change) stated that it is not superfluous to reflect that the act that will come out of a politicized judge - and such is a judge who has made politics - will never be credible, it will never be appreciated by anyone as an act of justice, even if absolutely in accordance with the law. In fact, in practice, who is the problem? If, by memorizing, I refer to the current composition of the national Parliament, I believe that this problem does not concern more than three or four magistrates on leave for parliamentary mandate. So, on the one hand, we have to assess the legitimate aspiration - we would miss something else - by the magistrate in politics to return to being a magistrate, but on the other hand, the image of third-partyness that affects the entire judiciary. And when it comes to third parties, I believe that the personal interests of the magistrate - legitimate, I said - are completely sub-valent to the interest of the entire category. It is not by chance that, in the current disciplinary legislation, as in the previous one, the behaviours put in place by the magistrate do not reveal as such but as damaging to the order and prestige of the judicial order. I would like to add one thing, Mr President, and I am silent. What I pose is a problem that I, as well as Senator Caliendo, have solved in the context of our respective personal behavior. When Senator Caliendo was appointed Undersecretary for Justice or when I was appointed Minister of Justice, we both adopted the exact same choice, that is to resign from the judicial order (Senator Caliendo after five years of expectation, I after ten years of expectation), so let me say that the being called into question in the polemics that have recently witnessed a failure and possible, presumed, appointment as Minister of Justice are, as usual, not generous to me and completely incorrect. But if it were true that what I read in the newspapers and, that is, that basically a certain person would not have been appointed Minister of Justice because, so to speak, it came directly from the judicial order, this would have happened because of the fact that the problem concerned his return to the judicial order. So, if this is the problem, if we can't really imagine that a magistrate, by virtue of an unwritten rule, cannot do the Minister of Justice, but, hypothetically, can do the Minister of Transport, I think that to decide in a way that keeps the matter and to say that the magistrate who assumes positions of government, who enters into politics, the National Parliament or the European Parliament, is destined, once he leaves political activity, to the Court of State, to establish a clear, transparent and valid criterion for all. A criterion that is also certainly functional to the principle of thirdness, as laid down in Article 111 of the Constitution. This would, by a verse, lead to greater institutional serenity and, on the other hand, would certainly bring water to the mill of the substantial and formal third-party of the judicial order. [[Applause from Senators Mussolini and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u58	Mr President, this is a very sensitive point, and President Palma knows that it has been a long debate in the Commissions. First of all, I would like to point out the two schools of thought which have been the starting points we have assessed in the Commission. The first school argues that it is possible to return to the exercise of jurisdiction and, therefore, to return to being a magistrate; the other school of thought claims instead that one cannot return. These two schools of thought, ladies and gentlemen, have been debating for years, and they have been opposing each other for years. Colleagues, these two schools of thought are cross-cutting to the judiciary and politics. The result was negative because neither of the two schools of thought prevailed. No one has convinced a majority in Parliament in past legislation. Neither of them prevailed during the discussions and discussions of the Commissions. We then put forward another proposal, aimed at balancing the two possibilities, making them available and both respectful of autonomy, the independence of the judiciary and the possibility for a magistrate to participate at the time of the elective representation of a democracy, without having absolute preclusions or exclusions. I think we have found a good balance, because to be able to participate and re-enter you have to have some requirements. One cannot assume a monocratic function, but one must participate in a collegiate function. There is no responsibility for directives and semi-directives. I therefore believe that we have achieved a good balance, which finally allows us to arrive at a result that is able to bring our Constitution into line here too, where we guarantee access to the active and passive electorate and where, at the same time, we guarantee access to autonomy and independence of the judiciary in a serious and responsible way. Colleagues, this is the balance we have achieved. It is a balance which, as you have already seen in the first votes on the other articles, has given a result that is difficult to find on the issues of justice. I think this balance must be maintained, because it is an excellent balance, constitutionally solid, modern and advanced. [[Some senators are calling for intervention.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u59	Colleagues, we are presenting the amendments. When we arrive at the amendment on which you intend to speak, then I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u60	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 6102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u61	Mr President, I am not going to explain Amendment 6101, if not in summary terms, but I would like to make a comment. Between the said "I don't understand," but I adapt and that "I understand," but I don't adapt, I choose the third solution: "I understand and I adapt." Therefore, for reasons of a political nature, of solidarity with the Government, because of the problems that could lead to the vote on this amendment, I withdraw amendment 6101, but I repeat with great conviction and determination the reasons that led me to subscribe to it with my colleagues Susta and Di Maggio. I believe, in fact, that objectively - as has already been argued - those who become a political man must necessarily forget the toga and can no longer be, because it no longer appears impartial (even if it can remain in his conscience), the independent judge we want. Therefore, once a political role has been played, one must necessarily retain - as the Constitution provides - the salary under acceptable conditions in this respect, but one can no longer exercise jurisdiction. That said, however, I withdraw amendment 6,101. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Scilipoti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u64	CASSON, Rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr President, but I would like to ask for a clarification. It seems to me that an opinion has been expressed against Amendment 6,101 by the 5th standing Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, but it was withdrawn anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u65	Mr President, the Commission has not removed a point on Article 6. I beg colleagues to pay some attention. The decision is put back to the free choice of the candidate magistrate or the elected magistrate: when he comes back, he will decide himself whether to return to the judiciary in a collegiate function or go to the state's bill. As I said earlier, I have tabled amendments to schizophrenics, precisely because this choice has not been made. I think it is perhaps wrong that it is Parliament's job to choose and give a precise indication: if it is considered possible constitutionally, then it is possible to send to the State's bill, even if it is not possible for me; if, on the other hand, it is considered right that they should be sent to carry out a collegiate function and that they cannot hold managerial and semi-directive positions for five years, it is decided in this sense. Anyway, we have to choose. That is why, Mr President, I am giving up amendment 6,103, which was formulated precisely with a view to giving the House an alternative. However, since Senator Palma has tabled Amendment 6,100, which is also the alternative to Amendment 6,107, in my signature, I withdraw Amendment 6,103. Amendments 6,104 and 6,106 take account of the fact that, while for those who are candidates and unelected we have provided for the obligation of collegial functions for five years and who for five years cannot have semi-directive and managerial positions, in this article there is a mistake for those who are elected. In fact, as far as semi-directive and managerial tasks are concerned, two years are mentioned. For this reason, I have tabled amendments 6,104 and 6,106, in which I propose an equal period. In fact, it is clear that one who has a collegiate function for five years would simply submit the application and obtain the managerial or semi-directive task in order to escape the collegiate function. For this reason, I maintain Amendments 6,104 and 6,106 and withdraw Amendment 6,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u68	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I agree with both the withdrawal of Amendment 6101 and the reasons put forward by Senator Albertini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u71	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, this is the knot of the knots. The problem had arisen in terms of access to applications, but the most important issue is that if we want to guarantee that image, and not just the substance, we must try to create a filter as effective as possible. The rule, as it is articulated in the proposal, represents an important point of progress in the direction of creating the conditions for the image of the magistrate to be strongly protected in his third-party. It is clear that the result is not definitive, in the sense that there is still a fumus that can encourage criticism in the face of judgments and others. Evidently the inclusion in the collegial bodies mitigates this concern, because the decision is not monocratic, but depends on a college, and therefore, from this point of view, there is a strong mitigation of prejudice. Nevertheless, I would say that a clearer rule would have been needed on the detachment from the function of magistrate in activity, since the cultural and professional scope of the magistrate can be used in the Billing, the Ministries or the international commissions. It would therefore have taken a little more courage, even if one step forward was taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u74	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I would like to suggest to my dear friend Senator Albertini that there is also a fourth way: I do not understand and do not adapt. I'll see to that. President Palma is right when he says that we are dealing with the most important article. I would add that it is also, in some ways, straightforward, because whether or not this article is approved then it will also depend on the vote of our Group. The fundamental point I believe is that we must realise the importance of this vote. Ours is the country of the made law, found the deception. But it becomes paradoxical if it is the legislator who encourages deception. On this subject, which I would say is extremely important and important, it is true that two schools of thought exist - as Senator Lumia says - but to these two schools of thought I believe that the legislator should not submit to the demands of some corporation, but that Parliament's power to legislate and therefore to re-appropriate itself, especially in a case such as this of which the daily chronicles are full, of its power should be left free. Why do I say "made the law, found the deception"? First of all, Amendment 6101 once again calls into question perhaps the most important issue, namely expectation. I suggest a simple comparison. In the causes of incandidability we often find in the law that, for example, the regional manager cannot run for office as regional councillor. Immediately afterwards, however, the expectation through which the possibility of applying is made possible comes to the rescue. I would like to read, simply to point out the level of hypocrisy, Article 6 of the draft law that we are about to vote on. It reads: The ordinary, administrative, accounting and military magistrates elected to the National Parliament or to the European Parliament, upon termination of their parliamentary term of office, shall not return to their duties before their term of office. The provisions laid down in this Article and in the regulations referred to in Article 8 (b) shall apply for the relocation of those magistrates. This is peaceful. This is the solution we would have found. As well as in paragraph (a) we read that they may be re-placed in a court of appeal district other than that in which the electoral district in which they were elected is included, in whole or in part. It's like saying that if I do politics in Lombardy and then I go to practice in Basilicata or Molise, those ideas are no longer valuable. We cannot continue to make fun of ourselves in this way, and that is why I maintain Amendment 6,101. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u77	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. The rapporteur, Mr Casson, has just reported that the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on Amendment 6,101. I would like to point out to the House that this is due to the intervention of Deputy Minister Morando with a new opinion of the Ministry of Economy regarding the engraving with the possibility of figurative redemption, despite the phrase "total load of the applicant and without charge for the budget of the State" seemed to avoid any increase for the treasury. Mr Morando told us that, in his view, that sentence was not sufficient to cover the risks of increased expenditure in respect of the Treasury and, therefore, the Budget Committee gave an opinion contrary to Article 81. This does not, however, coincide with the original text of Article 6, because it appears in that text. The extensor of the amendment had taken up, with regard to this particularity, precisely what is said in point (d) of paragraph 2 of Article 6. As the opinion of the Budget Committee was prompted by a new intervention by the new Government in relation to an assessment made on the text by the previous Government, I would ask if it is not appropriate for the new Government to express its opinion on the text as well and the Budget Committee would forward a new opinion regarding this impact in the original text and that it had not been modified by the proposers of the amendment. [[Applause from Senator Pagano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u78	Senator D'Alì, the Government expresses its opinion, but the Budget Committee expresses an independent opinion, which in this case is negative. Colleagues, we know that the Senate House can also express itself with the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. Having no other warnings than the President of the Commission, I remain with the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u81	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to raise this point with the invitation of Senator D'Alì. Both the text of Article 6 and that of Article 12 makes it very clear how it is a total load on the applicant. He may have deceived the engraving with the possibility of figurative redemption, and I propose then, together with the co-rapporteur, to replace in letter d) of paragraph 2 of Article 6, as well as in letter d) of paragraph 1 of Article 12, the word "figurative" with the following: "through voluntary contribution" (then continue with the total load of the applicant) This is so that doubts are eliminated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you, as rapporteur, propose it as an amendment, I must send it to the Budget Committee. I would like to look at this aspect. CASSON, Rapporteur. Since we are also voting on other articles, for the sake of tranquility and in view of the objection made, we shall vote on the rest and put aside this point. The Budget Commission could intervene. If that's what this means, I think the doubt should be escaped by saying that the ransom would be fully borne by the court clerk requesting it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If a new amendment to Article 6 is tabled, I must put aside all the amendments tabled to it, pending the reply of the 5th Commission. CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, as I have already proposed, let us vote on the other articles and put aside the six.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u82	Since the amendment tabled by Senator Palma, 6,100, completely replaces Article 6, it is clear that if the text of the article becomes another, we must put aside all the amendments tabled to the first version of the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u85	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I agree with the reformulation proposed by Senator Casson. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u88	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, I had asked for the floor for a long time, in order to reiterate the same comments as Senator D'Alì on the inconsistency of the decision - which I took part in - of the 5th Commission, which, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, expressed opposition to amendment 6101 and not to the paragraph of Article 6 which the rapporteur is now trying to change. If Article 6 is amended, the other amendments, including 6,101, must be amended.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u89	So, ladies and gentlemen, if you agree, I would put aside Rule 6, by drafting the wording to be submitted to President Azzollini, in the hope that we will be able to give an answer, in accordance with Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure, already in this Chamber, without calling the 5th Commission, and then come back to the point. If there are no objections, I think that is the best solution to the problem. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u90	Mr President, I call on Senator Palma to withdraw amendment 7,100, as the metropolitan city has not yet been introduced into our system, so it makes no sense to include it in this law. On the other hand, I am in favour of amendment 7,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u91	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u92	Senator Palma, do you intend to accept the invitation to withdraw from the rapporteur? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 7,100 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,101. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7,101 tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u93	Mr President, in fact Amendment 8,100 needs to be put aside, because it is linked to the amendment of Article 6 and therefore to Amendment 6,107, which provides for the deletion of Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u94	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the provision of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u95	Mr President, this is not a matter of principle, but I would just like to say that, in any case, even if the text that came out of the Commissions were to pass or if the amendment tabled by Senator Palma or the other amending proposals were to be adopted, an Article 8 should, however, remain in place for the regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u96	I'm of the same opinion, Senator Casson. I therefore have the provision of Article 8 and the amendment referred to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u97	Let us turn to Article 9, on which amendment 9,100 was tabled, which has been withdrawn. We shall then proceed to the vote on Rule 9. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 9. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u98	Mr President, with Amendment 10,100 we are calling for the deletion of the reference to circumscription councils in paragraph 1 of Article 10, because we believe that this is an excessive measure. It is true that in some large cities the municipal and circumscription councils are large enough, but in most cases it is absolutely not so. For this reason it seems appropriate to expunge from the text the reference also to the presence in circumscription councils.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u99	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u100	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 10,100, otherwise the opinion is opposed to a question of consistency: since that in the districts is a political task, like that as a city councilman, provincial and regional, it is not clear why there should be a derogation. The consistency of the system requires that the circuit counselor should also be treated as another political office.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u101	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u102	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,100. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,100 tabled by Senators De Petris and De Cristofaro. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 10. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 11. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u103	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 12,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u104	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 12,101 for the same reason that I withdrew an amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u105	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u106	Mr President, as I mentioned earlier, the same question is being asked of Article 6, which we have already submitted to President Azzollini for the replacement of the word 'figurative'. At this point, when the answer is given to us, it will apply to Articles 6, 8 and 12 and we will be able to proceed. I therefore call for Article 12 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u107	I have the provision of Article 12. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u108	Mr President, Amendment 13,100, which deletes Rule 13, was the subject of an early debate yesterday. We consider this article to be somewhat inconsistent with the rules on the exclusion and objection of judges and provides - also with respect to the general arrangement of the whole measure, which takes on the five-year reference period - that if a judge has participated in European, national, regional, provincial or municipal consultations or in positions of government of various types, national, regional or local, in the previous ten years (and this applies both to abstention and objection), it is determined in some way its non-tertiarity and therefore the possibility of using the institution of abstention and objection. However, I say to the rapporteurs that it is not only foreseen in the other articles that there is a constant reference to the five years, but there is another particularity: it is clear that the rules examined so far concern the future (i.e. if a magistrate will run for the next European elections or if he will assume, in another Executive or in case of reshuffle, positions of government) and obviously concern cases that still have to be manifested, therefore they are rules that rightly govern the future; instead, Article 13 clearly impacts, precisely because it concerns the institutes of abstention and objection, on the ongoing proceedings. During yesterday's debate - I am asking you to confirm this, however - I felt that the rapporteurs had taken up a possibility of amendment, which should have already been tabled, with regard to Article 13, always to prevent the rules from impacting on ongoing processes: a transitional rule which clearly states that the measure will not apply to ongoing processes. In our view, the question of the choice made, with regard to abstention and objection, of the ten-year period remains open, and we insist that the duration of this period be aligned with the end of the five-year period assumed for all the previous rules. I look forward to the rapporteur's answer to my question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u109	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u110	I immediately respond to Senator De Petris and reassure her that we have already planned a change in the rule, with an amendment by the rapporteurs presented yesterday evening and contained in the dossier distributed to the House: this is Amendment 13,500, where it is expected that the provisions of this Article will not apply to the proceedings in progress on the date of entry into force of this Act. Therefore, on Amendment No 13,100 I would ask you to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment 13,500 by the rapporteurs, since several evaluations have also emerged in the debate this morning, I would ask that it be put to separate votes. On points (a) and (b), which concern the issue of five or ten years in relation to the period of abstention or recusal by the magistrate, we refer to the opinion of the House and accept the verdict. With regard to point (c), which introduces paragraph 3-a, the opinion is in favour. Finally, I am in favour of Amendments 13.0.100 and 13.0101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u111	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u112	The rapporteurs therefore propose a separate vote on amendment 13,500: on points (a) and (b) they are put back to the House, while on point (c) the opinion is in favour. I would ask Senator De Petris whether she accepts the call for the withdrawal of Amendment 13,100. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I accept the call for withdrawal because the rapporteurs have tabled Amendment 13,500. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 13.500. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u115	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make it clear to Senator De Petris that the five years envisaged in the entire text concern only and exclusively the career of the magistrate. He imagined he couldn't weigh too much on the magistrate's career in putting too long-lasting constraints over time; from there, the time scan of the five years. Why do we insert the 10-year forecast in Article 13? Because this does not concern the life of the magistrate, but the third party of judicial proceedings. It's about the judicial function. What do we say on the point? Very well: it is decided that the magistrate who makes politics returns to be the magistrate and we have inserted some causes of abstention and objection all connected to having that subject made the magistrate and the possibility that he is to judge in a trial - civil, administrative or criminal little matter - that has as part a subject that has made politics, or on the same political side, or in an opposing political part. We are not talking about the absence of third parties in substance, but we are discussing the appearance of third parties, exactly as the Attorney General Guarnera said earlier. Why do we say that this abstention and objection must cover a period of ten years and not five years? Because we consider the ten-year period more suitable to discolor over time the political action of the magistrate and more suitable to avoid that the magistrate can be faced, as a part, a subject who has carried out politics in the same period of political action. I cannot really understand why we should dwell on the five or ten years. What matters to people, and that concerns our Constitution, is that a citizen finds a judge, and that this judge is and appears third. It doesn't matter that that trial is decided by Judge Casson or Judge Barani: what matters is that it is decided by a judge that it is and appears definitively third. Personally, Senator De Petris, if I had not resigned and had thus returned to the judiciary after the outcome of my political action, be assured that I would have no interest in making the trial - I know - of Senator Cuomo (I refer to him as he is right in front of me); on the contrary, I would be the first to abstain, regardless of the cause of abstention, and I would feel nothing diminished by the fact that I cannot trial or judge (or what is) Senator Cuomo for my next ten years. The problem is not about people, but about the function: who exercises the function and who undergoes the act that derives from the exercise of that function. Get rid of the concept that we are undermining, in its entirety, to all round, the figure of the magistrate. What interests us - but why can't you understand it? - it is guaranteeing the judiciary, and you do not realize that the weaker we are in guaranteeing the third partyhood of the judiciary, the more we pollute the judiciary by suspecting that the actions of the magistrates may be related to interests other than those of the administration of justice. But what do you want me to care about being judged by one subject or another? It's completely indifferent to me. What matters to me is that those who judge me do not, by hypothesis, have any reason other than the one ordered by the cards to make a decision in one verse or another. That is why, on behalf of my Group, I express my absolute opposition to the fact that the ten-year period in the cases of abstention and objection is reduced to five years. Here I would like to open a parenthesis: end with suspicion! This rule of abstention and objection, the Members of the Commission are well aware, has been included as the correct compensation to allow judges in politics to become magistrates. But what sense does it make, if I could ever return, that I, who have done the Minister of Justice, cannot do trials in Milan, but can do them quietly against my adversaries or political friends, perhaps in Campania or Sicily? Abstention and objection were institutional compensation when the magistrate returned to his career. That is why, on behalf of my Group, I am voting against the first part of the Commission's amendment. As far as the second part is concerned, I obviously agree with it, although it is nothing more than a surrender to a culture of suspicion which is not based on a specific fact either. Here no one has come to tell us that this rule applies to such proceedings as those where Guy is accused and is Judge Caius. Get out of the suspicious culture! If we are finally to rebalance the relations between the judiciary and politics, this culture must end, and you must guarantee the judiciary through rules that prevent any suspicion of the magistrates' actions! [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u118	Barani (GAL). Mr President, we declare our vote against, both on the first part and, dear Senator Palma, on the second part, because in this House we are voting against any theory of suspicion, which has always hurt Italy and the Italians. That is why we - I repeat, with our heads high - are voting against it. There are two DNA that are opposed today: that of those who want to appear to be friends of the judges and that of those who want a fair trial, wants serenity, wants thirdness, wants the application of the Constitutional Charter. Colleagues, with the current times of the trials (from five to ten years for the various degrees of judgment), the ten-year deadline introduced in the Commission was a point of balance. We discussed this in Commissions 1a and 2a, and we all shared it. But now there's someone with that DNA who's changed his mind. On the other hand, the transmission of characters is such that there is nothing to do: the guarantors and the executioners will always be on opposite fronts. It is no coincidence that these observations come from SEL, such a maximalist movement, and it is no coincidence that a reformist like myself will try, until the end, to counter them. I shall end, Mr President, by making a general remark, which perhaps has not emerged in this House. According to Articles 7 and 10 of Law No. 361 of 1957 there are dozens and dozens of people who cannot participate in the elections, such as all the directors general, health and administrative of the ASL, all the prefects, all the commissioners of government, all the heads of cabinet of ministers, all the inspectors general of public security, the chief and the vice chief of the Police or all those who are legal representatives of companies and private enterprises that are bound with the State. What harm then if for our Constitution and by law these categories - and they are thousands of people - cannot be elected and the Constitution and the constituent Fathers at that time have also put the court's third-party? We believe that putting limits on candidacy and reintegration and the possibility of recusal is nothing more than applying our Constitutional Charter. We shall therefore vote against both the first and second parts of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u121	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the work we have done in the Commission in this House looks at this with the culture of systematicity. We must put aside both the idea of suspicion, now echoed by President Palma, and the approach of the so-called rebalancing between the judiciary and politics. Let us clear the field: we must have a systemic look and think of rules that are functional to the respect of our Constitution and give dignity and value to the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. At the same time, we must regulate the choice, which we propose to the Assembly, both to guarantee the possibility of the magistrate to return, under certain strict conditions, to the judicial function of magistrate and to assure, in this case too, the magistrate who applies the possibility of carrying out a function within the public administration. Abstention and recusal are already regulated and guarantee processes; it is good then that there is a systemic standard that does not have retroactive value and that there is a system balance related not to ten but to five years. We have chosen the five years and we have found a balanced relationship on them to ensure the accountability and effective transparency of the return to judicial function and we believe that the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs is serious and can be accepted by this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u124	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we will be voting in favour of both sides of the amendment. I would like to point out to President Palma that it is not the culture of suspicion that pushed us, indeed we had asked for a suspension to have certain data. In particular, I would like to point out that the application to the only trials that will open up is important because, if it is true that the condition of the judge, as someone has pointed out, also applies to the ongoing proceedings, it is also true that if we introduce a new rule that provides for mandatory cases of abstention and this one goes to affect the proceedings that are in their final phase, when in the initial phase the judge was not in the condition of being able or having to abstain, nothing can exclude that a future other rules can be approved as far as possible in order to have an effect as deleterious as possible. This was the sense of non-application of the rule to ongoing proceedings. However, it is also true that in the matter of abstention there is Article 36 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for an open case, where it states: "other serious reasons for convenience". This always allows one of the parties, for all the cases listed by President Palma and Mr Barani, if there are reasons for convenience to raise a conflict with the judge, not simply because of the fact that he was a candidate but because maybe there is an effective political connection, friendship or other, to raise this exception anyway, even without any time limits, therefore even after five, ten, fifteen, twenty years. Therefore, it is always a possibility, it is not excluded. However, this is not a general rule and it is expected that the parties will abstain and object. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u125	I would point out that the first part of Amendment 13,500, tabled by the rapporteurs, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time until point (b) is included. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on the remainder of Amendment 13,500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would point out that the second part of Amendment 13,500, tabled by the rapporteurs, was voted by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 13 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13.0.100, tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 13.0.101, tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u126	Mr President, I would ask the presenter to withdraw Amendment 14,100, because Article 8 of the 1957 single text which he would like to repeal has already been explicitly repealed by Article 14, and in any case the text is completely reworded by the wording of the draft law. Therefore, the amendment would be supplementary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u127	Senator Buemi, do you accept the invitation to retreat? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 14. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 14. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 116-273-296-394-546 We shall resume the examination of the articles and amendments previously provided for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u130	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, the situation is quite complicated. First of all, I must apologise to Senator Albertini, who tabled Amendment 6101, because it had not been noted that the content of this amendment was identical to that of two parts of the draft law. I therefore apologise to my colleague for the fact that the text had been properly censored by us for the absence of a technical report, but in the same way I censor the texts referred to in Article 6 (2) (d) and in Article 12 (1) (d) because they present the same problem as in relation to amendment 6,101. For the sake of truth, the Commission - if you will allow me to make a joke - is usually very gloomy, which Parliament complains about, even more than the Government is. In this case, in fact, since there had been a Government note clarifying the aspects of Article 6, the Commission, which had previously pointed them out in the rapporteur's note, following the reassurance, considered to give an opinion of no obstacle to the text; however, it did not correctly point out this issue, which has clear profiles of cover and need for technical report. Mr President, in order to overcome this impasse, which I have also spoken of with the rapporteur, Mr Casson and with Senator Lumia, I may be able to find an idea and allow the House to move forward with the work, but it is a classic case in which I cannot express an opinion under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I would ask you to allow me to convene the Budget Committee for a quarter of an hour in order to carry out the checks necessary to return to this House to give our opinion in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u131	Mr Azzollini, I am happy to allow you until 12.15 p.m. because, even after your presentation, the problem exists, in my opinion, on the basic text which is proposed to amend as well as on Amendments 6,100 and 6,101, because they are all without cover. Mr Azzollini (NCD). I have already expressed my opinion, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the group leaders whether they agree to allow time to the Budget Commission until 12.15 p.m. and then resume work with the examination of the provisions. By not objecting to it, it remains established. I therefore suspend the sitting. On the resumption of work, if there is some cooperation in the explanations of vote, perhaps we will be able to finally approve the measure already today. (The sitting was suspended at 11.52 a.m. and resumed at 12.19 p.m.) Colleagues, as the work of the 5th Commission is still under way, I suspend the sitting until 12.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.20 p.m. and resumed at 12.57). Let's resume our work. He asked the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u132	Mr President, the Commission's work has led to a rewording which tends to go beyond clear critical aspects of the current text, both Article 6 and Article 12, as well as Amendment 6101. In the light of this reformulation, the debate revealed the need for a technical report from the Government, which was present at the debate. On the basis of that reformulation, the Government has undertaken to present the technical report to us next Tuesday. It is clear that the Commission's attempt was to produce a text that goes beyond the possible critical profiles that were highlighted earlier. I would like to say to the rapporteurs that this is not a technical report that is required in general: the Government, present, has undertaken to present it next Tuesday in order to allow us to give our final opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the assessments made by the President of the Budget Committee, I refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u136	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I rise for a correction in relation to the vote on Amendment 13,500, first part. I was wrong to press the button and instead of voting in favour, I voted against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u137	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u138	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and the students and of the Technical Institute "Benedetto Lotti" of Massa Marittima, in the province of Grosseto. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u141	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of a fact which I do not wish to miss and which, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the State. It is yesterday the news that, in Naples, the Carabinieri of the NOE have made 17 arrests for the realization of the landfill of Chiaiano, at the conclusion of investigations started in 2009. The owners of the companies, the members of the testing commission, professionals and entrepreneurs are involved, investigated in various ways by mob association, illicit trafficking of waste, false. The owners of the companies - evidence the interceptions - knew, already before the award of the contract, that they would be awarded the contest and where the landfill would rise. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u142	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice and those who need to speak out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u143	Please, Senator Moronese. MORONESE (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. You know what Chiaiano's dump is? It is the first landfill in Italy to have been built with the citizens around. It's the dump inside the city of Naples. Do you understand? Inside. Outside there are citizens - about 200,000 - and, at the top of the dump, there are also three hospitals, among the largest in Central-South. In 2008 that dump was imposed by you, the Berlusconi Government. Bertolaso, who led the construction, ensured that it was the safest landfill ever built. They shouted in all the TVs that had done the miracle, and today the Carabinieri arrest the technicians and, from what I read in the newspapers, it seems in some way that a certain "Giggino' in purpetta is involved, a deputy still in office. You see, we're here, we know everything. We were there to demonstrate, as citizens, in a peaceful way: the only ones who denounced everything and were unheard. On the one hand, we had the state that was pressing to make the dump inside the city; on the other hand, the camorra and, in the middle, us citizens, who were being ganged by the police. Madam President, in this House I have heard praise from a famous actor, Toni Servillo, who brought the name of Italy to the top of the world for a film called "La grande bellezza" (The Great Beauty). No one said, however, that Toni Servillo was also present in the movie "Gomorra" in which they denounced the illegal spills of waste in the landfill of Chiaiano. So today we tell you that you have also made a film about the lives of citizens, but it's called "The great crap" and - rest assured - you will pay for all this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u146	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I read you an excerpt from Alex Zanotelli's letter: In this election campaign for the European Parliament, we believe that a serious debate, not only in Italy, but in all 28 countries of the European Union, on the Free Trade Treaty between the United States and the European Union, known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, is extremely important. The negotiations, which began in complete secrecy last July in Washington, are conducted by a handful of experts from the European Commission and the US Ministry of Commerce. The fourth round of negotiations will be held in Brussels in March. This Treaty will create the world's largest free trade area between two economies representing half of world GDP and one third of trade flows. All this with great exultation of the business world. There are many who challenge the truthfulness of these data and resize them. But very few people are wondering what the consequences will be for the European Union. "The Treaty" - writes Monica De Sisto - "it aims to reduce not so much the customs taxes between the EU and the USA already low, but the so-called non-tariff barriers, that is, the prohibitions of import and specific taxes that, thanks to the great battles against hormone meat, chicken washed with chlorine, phthalates in toys, pesticide residues in food, GMOs and so on, keep away from our market unsafe, toxic products." In fact with the T-TIP will fall the taxes and rates that have kept these products away. The Treaty will have a major impact on the environment, on work and on our own democracy. At environmental level, the Treaty will increase the export of fossil fuels and gas extracted with fracking and will allow oil multinationals to bring national governments to court to introduce restrictive regulations in this regard and also to appeal against national environmental laws. The Treaty will also have a major impact on the world of work, circumventing the rules of law and emptying regulations for the protection of workers. But above all, it will be our own democracy, already so weak, that will come out crippled. The Treaty is in fact a negotiation concluded in total secrecy (not the European Parliament or the US Congress are aware of the negotiations), without the active participation of the citizens. It is a real coup d'état on the part of the economic and financial powers that today rule the planet. It is the victory of the lobbyists (multinationals and banks). It is a political project - wrote Stefano Rodotà - to enslave even more workers to corporate plans, privatise the health system and overwhelm any national authority that would hinder their way of acting, and I add to force the South of the world. As citizens we cannot accept such an economic and financial monster. We ask everyone, both believers and non-believers, to join this important campaign to stop an "intractable" treaty. Signed Alex Zanotelli. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u149	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, many M5S spokesmen have been in schools for months to talk to students and teachers. We have always done this as representatives of the institutions, leaving out membership of the Movement and trying to depersonalize the meetings. What happened to Syracuse is truly unheard of. Prime Minister Renzi visited a school, meeting teachers and young and very young children, to bring them the verb: "The Gospel according to Matthew." On the one hand, the sister of Salvatore Raiti, to whom the school is named, who died at the hands of the Mafia, was excluded from the visit for not specific reasons. On the other hand, the children were duly instructed to say welcome to Renzi with a song that recalls Mussolini's visits to schools during the fascist period. And what about the gaffe, the request made by the Premier to children if they used Facebook, forgetting that the social network membership provides, for obvious protection to children, a minimum age of 13 years? The school needs concrete facts, continuity, certainties and investments, not propaganda ("Hey, give me a five!"). "Who leads to Fiorentina?." I mean! The country needs everything, less than selling pots in schools! The school must form free minds, not soldiers trained to satisfy the ego of the President of the Council on duty! Many comments about this are written to me on the Net. I deliberately leave out those who begin with: "shameful", "rebreeze", "voltastomach" and I read to you that of a school educator, Edgar Alhadeff, who writes to me: It is frankly disarming that a school director and the teachers of a public school have organized such a fatious reception committee, with musicians, songs and involvement of the school in honor of the visit of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. Nothing removing the due respect for the institutions and for those who solemnly represent them, this story, also for the words used in the lyrics of the song, leaves bewildered. Here's a little verse: From now on, wherever you go, don't forget about us... about our dreams... the hopes... that we trust you today at the pace of blues. The girls... The boys... all together... We entrust the future to your ideas and work. Do we entrust the future to your ideas and your work? It is indeed a good teaching if we are to promote servility, delegation and self-restraint! One wonders, in a school that should prepare the children to face their future, that of the community and a democratic nation supported by the Constitution with awareness, critical capacity, freedom of thought and speech, if it is through this initiative that the school and the school director representing it can teach and promote the principles of freedom and democracy. I can only deprecate this diseducational, totally diseducational initiative. And again Stefano Mantellassi writes to me: Children under the age of ten have been instructed to sing, recite, and even dance in honor of the new Prime Minister. Is it too much to talk about plagiarism? When it comes to children so young, it is really necessary to pay the utmost attention to everything that can constitute violence towards their will: in this case we really feel we can talk about the work of conditioning. If this fact represents the announced "we will start from the school" of the Renzi Government, we really feel very much, indeed very much, worried about what will be the follow-up. In these years we thought we had seen the worst, except then realize that at the worst there is no end! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u152	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, after years of cuts and absolute forgetfulness of the institutions of the school autonomy of this country, for the first time a President-in-Office of the Council not only devotes a large part of the trusted speech addressed to the Chambers on the subject of school, to students and above all to the return of dignity to teachers and school staff, but keeps the promise made to this Assembly by obtaining the confidence: go every week to visit the schools to listen from the loud voice of students, teachers and school staff what are the difficulties they are experiencing. I believe, Madam President, that this action, of listening and, above all, of the presence of the State in schools, close to the citizens and, in particular, to the younger ones, can only benefit. [[Ironic applause from Senator Lezzi.]] At this moment Matteo Renzi goes as President of the Council, and therefore goes to represent the Italian State in the school: this is the meaning of his presence when he listens to students and teachers. I think he deserves the credit for that. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u153	Please! There is freedom of opinion in this House and I hope that you too will respect it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u156	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, I too want to bring the voice of the school world to this House this morning, in conjunction with what my colleague Francesca Puglisi has just said: at last there is a government which, in sharp discontinuity with past governments, reinvests in the world of education. One of these investments was the extension of the contracts that the Government allowed for socially useful workers in schools throughout Italy, and it was a good thing, because many contracts are broken down and, in most regions, the situation is stabilising, while the Government has activated a table involving the Ministers of Education and Labour to find a longer-term solution. I intervene to point out the serious situation in which my region, Abruzzo, is located. For a number of circumstances, due to the fact that the new one had already taken over, indeed the new operators of the services, although having implemented the extension, in these days the new managers are proposing to the workers contracts that are shameful. These workers go from a number of hours already not substantial to six monthly hours, for a salary that, for the most part, does not even reach 150 euros. The Filcams CGIL has raised the problem both at the management of the work and at the prefecture, but the attitude of the new companies that have won the contract is serious and wrong and risks to compromise the fate not only of these workers - many of whom, being close to the pension, would suffer a substantial damage at the moment of their exit from the world of work - but also of the services, because the reduction of the hours is paradoxical. I appeal to you, President, just as I did yesterday directly towards the Minister, so that this voice can arrive very quickly to the Government to intervene both in the provincial directions of the job and in the prefectures so that the managing entities, in the transitional phase, use the instrument of the extension and the resources for the purpose for which they have been identified, that is, the costs of the staff, and do not make Abruzzo a separate region.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u159	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, yesterday Minister Maria Elena Boschi said that it is not this Government's intention to request the resignation of Ministers or Undersecretaries on the basis of a guarantee notice but, if necessary, for reasons of political opportunity. I ask the Minister what political opportunity is. For us in the 5 Star Movement, the political opportunity is to guarantee the citizen that those who administer the public thing have an integral reputation. I also ask: why is a person being investigated? It is investigated at a time when there is at least one magistrate who believes that he has a certain probability of being involved in the facts under investigation. Is it appropriate, then, politically, to entrust public positions to persons whom a state order such as the judicial one counts as potential guilty of a crime? For the 5 Star Movement this does not seem appropriate from the political point of view, while for the Government of Renzi, the Government of the new, of changing direction, of doing, of running suspected for crimes of fraud, flawed, aggravated flawed, office abuse clearly represents a signal of strong political opportunity and coherence with his message. Even the New Right Centro was no less. He will not demand resignation to balance the sacrifice of Gentile. However, the appointment of inquisitions could and should have been prevented simply on the basis of Article 54 of the Constitutional Charter, which guarantees and protects the honour of all those citizens entrusted with public functions. We're on the paradox. The governor of Sardinia Pigliaru did not want to investigate in Giunta, while the Government recalled, with obvious hypocrisy and clear double-pessism, the presumption of innocence. We would have expected the Minister Boschi and the President-in-Office of the Council to be truly rigorous, effective coherence, real transparency and real commitment to the choice of people who were actually carriers and carriers and interpreters of these qualities in the role of Subsecretaries. I therefore call on you, President, to immediately schedule motion 1-00225 to my first signature yesterday on behalf of the 5 Star Movement to remove Dr Barracciu from the government office. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u160	You know that it is the Conference of Leaders that decides when and how to schedule the debate on the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u163	Mr Valentini (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out a very serious and unsustainable situation concerning the closure of many historic and craft shops in the country. But today in particular I would like to highlight the situation, reported in the chronicles of all the newspapers these days, of the prestigious local Caffè della Pace. The Caffè della Pace is the property of the Pontifical Teutonic Institute of Santa Maria dell'Anima; recognized as a historic workshop, it is a historical place in Italy, now apparently without any value for the institute of property, present in all the tourist guides of the world. The ancient Caffè della Pace is scandalously driven out of the square that has hosted it for a hundred years to leave room for something we do not know, but that will surely turn off the lights and will erase the identity, history and culture of that Roman square that has seen (since 1891 district Parione has always been characterized by the Caffè della Pace) Ungaretti, Monicelli, Fellini and many others being there in that context. I would therefore point out today in this House to the Presidency that, together with other colleagues, we have tabled an urgent question to activate all useful contacts, including with the Holy See, in order to avoid cultural and economic damage in the country (there will also be unemployment) and above all to check whether there are other projects of building speculation. In fact, it is evident that the alternatives to a coffee of that type, with a history of a hundred years, can affect above all the historicity of the building and of the whole area where the same insists. We ask you, President Faithful, to President Grasso and Minister Franceschini to ask also a meeting with the prefect, together with the mayor of Rome Ignazio Marino, for the conditions for an emergency order to suspend an executive eviction can be verified. Together with my colleague Camilla Fabbri we presented a project for the protection and defence of historic and craft shops and we followed the various events of the latter. Unfortunately the property refused to talk to the tenant in this last year; he never wanted to talk; he simply sent the eviction by withdrawing the contract. So, I'd like to ask the prefect if it's possible to stay the proceedings and figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u164	The Presidency will take responsibility for prompt response from the Government to your question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u167	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, in a note of 20 February, the State Police trade union organizations pointed out that the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior is completing a study for the revision of the State Police offices and offices. This means that there is no money, that there is no staff and that we are considering being able to suppress some police stations. In particular, Veneto would be affected by the abolition of the Porto Tolle police station. What does this involve? That the police station, which is responsible for the second largest territory in Italy, would no longer be guarded: 25 policemen would be assigned to other locations and there would be only 10 policemen. Now, this territory is already sparsely populated, so it means that the alert in critical situations is reported late, but having to rush from other police stations the patrols will inevitably have more time to intervene. In addition, I note that this is a delicate territory for some tensions that concern, for example, the conflicts on the abusivism of clam fishing, but also some delicate strategic sites such as the central ENEL of Porto Tolle and the regasifier of Porto Levante. In light of this, it is believed that a fragile and weak territory, however, largely falling within the area of the Regional Park of the Po Delta, to be protected with great attention, with respect also to the risk of environmental crimes, cannot be removed. With a question lodged today, I call on the Government to assess and answer whether there are indeed the conditions for a review plan, such as the one that is planned, or whether different guidelines should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u170	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, thank you for your sensitivity. Without any controversy, I wanted to thank Senator Paglini for her speech. I'm a parent, and yesterday, that video hit my heart. You can't do this. That's not being close to teachers or janitors. That's exploiting the kids; it's propaganda. This gentleman, of whom I have just learned that he has had the confidence of the House because he respects the word given, has eaten his tongue on all the promises made. First of all, not to be President of the Council without elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore ask that this gentleman be called by you, since he is part of your own political side, for these actions. I ask him not as a politician, but as a parent of two children. I also express deep solidarity with the parents of those children in Syracuse who were probably unaware of the use of their children for this propaganda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u171	You know, Senator Castaldi, that the Presidency does not respond to the political views expressed in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u172	CASTALDI (M5S). Forgive me for that, but I felt like saying it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u175	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, I cannot help but speak in response to what Mr Castaldi has just said, which I think is very damaging to the image of the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I feel I have to defend and explain why. I have been city council member at the school in Florence for the last four years and, by the precise choice of my administration, my choice and then mayor Matteo Renzi, we had decided to give priority to the theme of the school, doing a very simple thing; going to see all the schools of our city every Tuesday morning. At 8:30 a.m., on every Tuesday of four years of administration, we visited schools from grade school to high school. I held that position for four years and then I arrived here in the Senate. In addition to listening to the speech by my colleague, I have also read some comments and I believe that there is, as is possible, an interpretation by everyone of the acts. However, I would like to say that if children and young people feel the attention of important institutions on them, then the mayor and the Councillor, in this case the President-in-Office of the Council, is a good thing for me. If the latter go to see them in order to know the problems of that school, listen to the teachers and try to make everyone understand that the school is not a sectoral theme, but something absolutely transversal from which the civil life and the growth of a people passes, if this is not understood, if the acts that are done in this perspective are not understood with this logic, it is evident that a strongly distorted judgment is given. In my opinion, the visit to schools which the President-in-Office of the Council has made and will continue to make is being exploited. I would like to reassure those who do not agree that President Renzi - as he himself has already said - will continue to make these visits. Therefore, I think that every week we will be able to make a speech in this House, with someone who is annoying and who uses tones (if I may stress this) totally exaggerated. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] I believe we must go deeper: the exploitation of children is beyond and beyond any intent of each of us and of anyone who has in some way the life of the Italian school at heart. We will put billions on the Italian school, trying to place it at the center of attention. I therefore believe that the visit of the President-in-Office of the Council goes in exactly this direction. Otherwise, I should like to know why it does not bother me and have never disturbed the many meetings with young people, students, within schools - for example - also held by the President of the Republic. I think it is a beautiful signal, very strong, of attention to the school: other than exploitations! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u178	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, to confirm what my previous colleagues have said, I would stress that the visit of the President of the Council to the school in Treviso was, by far, one of the most appreciated visits, in particular by the teachers, who see in this attention to the school the overcoming of the problems experienced. My speech, however, does not concern this issue, even if it is still in this area, because it is intended to underline the importance that all of us, particularly here, in the Senate, must give to education, science and culture in our country. Today I have read a news (which is tambouring in my mind since this morning), which I believe really represents a step back and an act of contempt against the event happened on March 4, 2013 in Naples (for that is, a territorial reality very far from the one from which I come). Yesterday, Minister Giannini presented himself for the signing of a program agreement of 56 million euros; moreover, it is a very significant program agreement, because he wants to clarify to the Italian underworld that we have no intention of relegating to acts that represent a very heavy attack on the institutions, culture, education and research of our country, as the heinous one produced - precisely - on March 4, 2013 with the arson of the "Città della Scienza" of Naples. Well, there has been a fact that, if I had been Minister Stefania Giannini, I do not know how I would have felt. His indignation, therefore, must be our indignation and that of the whole Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Everything happened for reasons of banal - if I may say so - political contrast, personal, between the president of the Caldoro Region and the mayor of Naples De Magistris, was also for a further request, necessary or considered such, having not however objected to anything until yesterday compared to the program agreement for that fundamental reclamation of another area. This was the signal that the world itself was waiting for from our country, closing with particularisms, giving importance to the signals, to show that it is intended to concretely lay the foundations of a country that does not want to go back an inch compared to acts of such mafia gravity. Well, the maximum local institutions, Municipality and Region, proved, for the umpteenth time, unable to understand the gravity and the delicacy of the situation, and the important signal that had to be given: together to defeat the mafia and together to rebuild immediately the City of Science. I believe, Madam President, that this House should be the spokesperson for an act that sensitivities the Ministry of Education and Minister Giannini to follow step forward, and that is what will happen in relation to the 56 million euro programme agreement that was put in place. It would also be appropriate to ask the Minister herself to report this by trying to stigmatize an unheard-of, unacceptable, frivolous behavior, without any sharpness, of any understanding of the gravity of the moment and of the situation by the highest local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u179	Senator Puppato, we will take charge of the matter, because it is actually very important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-203.ana.u180	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.35 a.m.
