ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 4 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from now on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 12.10 p.m.) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we should move on to the agenda for today's sitting, which deals with the draft budget and stability laws. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u9	Mr President, the 5th Budget Committee is naturally at work and will continue to work according to the classic pace of the bill of stability. In order to allow us to bring to the House a measure whose examination in the Commission has been totally concluded - as I hope - or which, however, has been widely evaluated, examined and voted on, we certainly need the time available for the examination of the Commission to be extended until Wednesday night. Mr President, we therefore call for the 5th Commission to have an extra day to assess the draft budget and stability laws. This time has become necessary as a result of the tabling of further amendments, on the part of everyone, and it is therefore necessary for the time available to the Commission to continue for another day. We would be grateful to you, Mr President, if this opportunity were granted to us. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u10	In view of what President Azzollini has said, in order to enable the Budget Committee to conclude its work, the sitting of the Assembly scheduled for tomorrow's day will not take place. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft stability and budgetary law, the debate of which will begin on Thursday 18 December at 9.30 a.m., in accordance with the timetable, will then be communicated in relation to the progress of the Commission's work. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 2 p.m. with the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 18 and 19 December 2014. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.13 p.m. and resumed at 14.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u11	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 18 and 19 December 2014 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the appointment of Thursday and perhaps Friday - because it seems that for the first time the European Council takes place in one day, and that would be very much appreciated - is a particularly important and significant appointment, because it marks the last European Council this year, the last European Council of our six months and the first European Council led by President Tusk, as well as the first European Council in which the presence of Juncker is that of the President of the European Commission in all respects, since he has been in office since 1 November. It is therefore a meaningful appointment, in my view for two fundamental reasons. I will try to be as brief as possible, aware and aware of the many institutional commitments that are planned today, both at the Quirinale and for your particularly important work, both in the Commissions and in the debate on the law of stability. On the one hand, there is a Europe which, I am not saying for the first time, because it would be deeply unfair, but for the first time in recent years tries to incorporate a political element, one more political element, in its leadership and leadership. It was undoubtedly political that led the founding Fathers to imagine, foreshadow, dream and build that common space that today is perhaps the most daring, revolutionary and - let me say - beautiful institutional bet ever made at the international level. Twenty-eight countries now - six at the beginning - have joined together and have done so by guaranteeing more than seventy years of peace to our peoples. It was political, therefore, a policy that wanted to imagine not only the founding Fathers, but also Mitterand and Kohl to take the hand, to take the hand, and to express an idea of union and of community that could certainly not be restricted and imagined only as a bond or contract, as an economic constraint or as a parameter. It was a great dream, a great ideal and there was politics. In our view, in recent years the political throes have come a little less. Europe has been seen much more as a set of rules (to be respected, of course), as a series of contracts, pacts, agreements than in the political spirit with the capital "P." So, the passage we're experiencing is relevant for this very reason. The Juncker Presidency is not simply a result of the identification of 28 Heads of State and Government but, first of all, of the fact that the party, the great family first arrived at the European elections - the European People's Party - chose Juncker as a candidate to present to the citizens. In this very Chamber, thanks to the work of the competent Commission, the meeting was held on 1 December last with the members of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs of the various European Parliaments led by President Chiti. On that occasion, we stressed that it was interesting that the first Vice-President Timmermans, who belongs to the second largest European family, namely the European Socialist Party, was also among the participants. We can therefore well say that the appointment of the Commission has had a strong, clear political mandate. Of course, it's just a start. The fact that we finally choose the political designation and that the ambition of change has the characteristics that we have expressed in so many passages and in so many circumstances, even during our six months, are certainly not enough, cannot be enough; we cannot be content. It cannot be said that since Juncker was designated by the parties in Brussels or Strasbourg, politics has returned. Absolutely not, but it is a first step and it is a step that has seen our country co-protagonist. Our country has in fact chosen to adhere to that mandate, to that commitment binding it to a series of decisions and assessments that may please or not but that are those that we could synthesize with the word "growth." In other words, we asked President Juncker to bear in mind that the acronym "Stability and Growth Pact" consists of three letters also includes the "Growth Pact" and not just the "Stability Pact." Therefore, our positive and positive vote on Juncker's candidacy has been linked to the identification of a different strategy by the President of the Commission on economic policy. These will be two other issues that will be discussed at the next European Council on Thursday, because, on the one hand, Juncker's investment plan with its strengths and weaknesses is under discussion and, on the other hand, the foreign policy that our country has wanted to claim to itself without letting go of that message so strong and widespread that even in the political debate it has resounded and emerged where it has been said: what can we do with foreign policy? If we want to go to Europe, we are going to discuss delegations that are linked to our interests. But affirming this is ignored that there is no greater interest today in a foreign policy worthy of this name, that it is not possible for any country today to feel an island, to feel untied by others. Today that we are facing a difficult international situation in the Mediterranean and the Balkans (as we are trying to do), but also looking further on, how can we fail to understand that foreign policy is a key element of the future of Europe and, therefore, of Italy, but, vice versa, of Italy and therefore of Europe? Reading the newspapers, we learned that yesterday in Sydney an act of violence and terrorism was carried out by capturing the black flag of ISIS (they have the wrong flag, but not the concept), a terrorism that becomes increasingly global and widespread (even if it has always been) if it also affects the placid and distant Australia. Think of today: how can we not feel a thrill of pain and horror over what happened in Pakistan where the Taliban deliberately killed over 100 children in a school? These children were killed as a sign, for they were almost all sons of soldiers. How, then, can we fail to realize that, apart from the different opinions and assessments that we make and that sometimes are profoundly divergent, foreign policy is not the game for those involved but the place of dignity of European politics and Italian politics? We will discuss these two issues at the European Council on Thursday. Of course, many of us - and this has already happened in the House this morning - can use this opportunity to take stock of the Italian semester leading Europe. I would prefer to wait until 13 January when the Italian Government comes to Strasbourg at the end of this journey. We can say that the Italian semester ends on 31 December from the point of view of the calendar, but on 13 January from the point of view of politics. On that occasion it will be important for us to check out many more or less noble, tall and important battles that we have tried to fight. We're still doing it today. In reply to the House I told some passages for example of the Ministry of Agriculture because it had been emphasized. Maurizio Martina has just returned from Brussels. Sandro Gozi has not yet done so: he is still at the General Affairs Council, where, among other things, we are discussing the possibility - which is very close to my heart and which may seem trivial to most people - of the European diplomatic school. I am one of those who believe that the path of European integration will make sense when we succeed in integrating European diplomacy and, in the future, building a united European military force. That is why, in a previous life, I had nominated my city, with the European University Institute, to be the seat of the Institute for Diplomats. But these are not the topics on which I would like to entertain you (and yet for a little while). I think it is more interesting to use the passage of January 13 to make a verification because much still needs to be done, but also because, if we were to take stock today, we should stress that first of all the vocabulary has changed. We know that it is not enough to change the words if they do not change the facts. I am the first to say that, until the facts change, we will not be able to give ourselves a good vote. Words have changed, though. It is a first step in Europe. Do you remember with what spirit and style they looked at our attitude? Some of you called us a bummer because we thought we would do something in Europe when, in June, we said that we would propose and impose the issue of growth on the European political debate. How many of you and of us were suspicious of the fact that we should finally begin to release and unblock infrastructure funds from the Stability Pact? Today this objective has seen the first result, which for me - I would like to say very frankly - is still insufficient in relation to the ambition we have offered to public opinion and, above all, to ourselves. It is insufficient because we will only be satisfied when Italian or other public works can be unlocked from the calculation of the Stability Pact regardless of the form of financing, whether the resources come from the European Investment Bank (EIB), or if they arrive in other ways chosen by the so-called Juncker plan. However, I must stress that with the Juncker plan for the first time, it is possible to unblock some of the investments by untiring them from the Stability Pact. That is a fact. Then we can discuss the substance: the Juncker plan cannot go too far because it is not a flag or a cockard that a government puts itself at the back of the jacket; the Juncker plan is the attempt to respond to a Europe that has stopped growing and that is called to growth even by institutions such as the International Monetary Fund - which certainly cannot be considered the American section of the European Socialist Party - or by the G20 leaders themselves who in Brisbane - regardless of the political color, from Cameron to Obama - have highlighted the need and the urgency to invest in growth. The Juncker plan is therefore, first and foremost, the response to a crisis situation that Europe is experiencing. For us, of course, this is also an opportunity to say that one of our objectives has been achieved. However, this will not be enough as long as the investments of individual Member States, which may be verifiable by a Community institution - we could imagine that a list of Member States' public works can be considered and approved by the European institutions, but financed entirely by the Member State - will not be unblocked by the Stability Pact. We will try until the last day with determination, dedication and tenacity, but until this type of activity is unlocked by the Stability Pact, I repeat, the victory will not be full. We are going to discuss this and I am going to draw the attention of the members of the political family to which I belong, the European Socialist Party. I am going to say this by looking at my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because I believe that there is still too much shyness among our overseas cousins - from different Alps - on these issues. The battle we are trying to fight is a battle that we are carrying out strong results on 25 May, but strong of an idea of European economic policy that unfortunately is too often ignored and, I would say, almost mystified even by some of us, even by some of our colleagues from other countries of the Union. However, it is a kind of battle that we will do, not because Italy needs flexibility, but because Europe needs to grow again. This is the first theme. It would be very interesting to continue to study some of these passages. I have already mentioned, precisely by intervening here in the Senate, some issues that point out above all at a time when reforms are being made, and I believe that it is undeniable that reforms are being made in Italy. Some say that they are too many, others that are too slow or that we are not yet working fully, others that we have already done enough and that we must continue to do, but there is no doubt that at the moment Italy is facing a constitutional reform, fired in August by this branch of Parliament and now under discussion in the House, which still changes some forty articles of the Constitutional Charter. The Senate is being examined by an electoral law already approved by the Chamber that changes, as is physiological, the rules of the game; the decrees on public administration and work, which became law in June, are at different levels of implementation; moreover, the draft law delegation on work has already been definitively approved by this House, while the first implementing decrees will be ready on 24 December. It is clear that we are moving forward, then someone will appreciate it and someone will be against it, but the reform process is moving forward. I imagine that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, once the phase of the debate on electoral reform has been completed, will come back to reason on the delegation for the reform of the public administration. In addition, it will be important when finally the debate we have held in the squares, in the seats of the parties (and which we will continue to do in the institutions and classrooms) on the education system, the university and research, will finally arrive at the parliamentary debate. So while we are waiting for the justice package to be analysed and further developed, we can say everything, except that Italy is not doing reforms. Well, as I said a moment ago, in this very Chamber I recalled when the Italian Government authorized other countries - engaged in a process of reforms even less ambitious than ours - to violate the European constraints: any reference to Germany and France and to what happened in 2003 is purely wanted. If there had not been that flexibility, Germany's divisions would have remained internal, economic divisions. If Italy had not guaranteed flexibility (I tell those who in these days, using social media with great style, such as the Vice President of the Senate, had very harsh words on the subject, and I repeat it here in the Chamber because I do not know if the Vice President of the Senate will repeat in the same way the words that he used on Twitter) the reform that Germany has implemented would not have allowed the two Germanies to reunite. If there had been no flexibility given by the Italian Presidency, Germany would not have completed a process of economic reunification. I said that at the seat of my party and I say it again here in the Senate, because I received a comment that I find incredible! [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCPI groups and Senator Buemi.]] It's a fact, objective. We do not have to take lessons from anyone on these matters, but we need to bring courage and pride into the European debate, even - let me say this - the enthusiasm for belonging. In these hours, after Italy yesterday expressed its candidacy for the Olympic Games of 2024, a minority (or majority? Who knows? We will see this) cross-cutting has united various personalities in the world of politics, from some aspects of the dissident left to the leaders of the two movements that are considered populists, to one of my predecessors, who is here in the Chamber and whom I greet, President Monti, who made a different choice. There have been several opinions on this issue in the past, they are in the present and they will be in the future. They are respectable opinions that sincerely, from the bottom of my heart, I consider opinions to be heard. On the contrary, I do not consider to be listening - or rather I consider to be listening but also to be refuted - the idea that since Italy has had and unfortunately still, in some cities and in some circumstances, legal scandals to evil, then you have to give up trying! As if the presence of someone who steals must prevent others from trying to pursue a dream, which is the dream of Italy and its ambitions. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), PI and SCpI Groups. Ironic applause from Senator Lezzi]] FACTORS (M5S). And be good, go! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. To be clear: the Olympic Games of 2024, for which much has yet to be done, are not simply the occasion for sporting events. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] I'm first of all... FACTORS (M5S). But what Olympic games, which we are starving to death! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The fact that you're losing pieces every day doesn't allow you to interrupt other people's speeches. We are in solidarity with you and we understand your difficulties! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). You take the rotten pieces! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We send you a warm embrace, but we think that our task is to continue working for the future of Italy, despite your screams! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u13	Quiet! Let the President's communications go.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u14	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Your cries, which were serious at Manzoni's time, with you are only the sense of frustration that we understand, respect and for which we are supportive. In particular, we think there is a reason why millions of voters who voted for you in 2013 will no longer vote for you, as we have also seen in the previous elections. [[Comments by Senators Martelli and Marton.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Where? Shame on you! You're coming to provoke? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Nevertheless, I would return, with your permission or without, to what is our ambition, that of changing Italy also for you and giving Italy a dimension of dreams, ambitions and projects that can excite us and the new generations. That's why in the Olympic project of 2024 I see much more than the organization of some events. [[Comments of Senator Fattori]] I see the idea of a country returning to the gold medal, I see the ambition of a country that believes it is possible to be in the best position to aim. It is that - and this is the second point of the European Council - that we are trying to do in the role, which Italy has deeply claimed, of the foreign policy of our Continent. I began by talking about the children of Pakistan, but frankly I find it indecent (and I say it with the utmost respect) that, while we are talking and to me come to mind the children of Pakistan, there is someone who says: "Think of Italian children!" [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCpI. Comments from the M5S Group]] Today 130 children died in a school in Pakistan! At least on that, it would make sense not to split up! NUGNES (M5S). Do you hear what he's saying? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. At least on this, it would make sense to have respect for human beings who are the object of a terrorist attack! At least there should be a limit on that! A limit to dignity! A limit to humanity! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Shame! You don't use the dead! Montevecchi (M5S). Shame! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. But how can you say: "Think of Italian children!" We're talking about people who are victims of a terrorist attack! How do you do that? How can that be? How credible is it to say that? Mr Lezzi (M5S). Murderers! Murderers! [[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u15	Senator Lezzi, Senator Santangelo, do not interrupt the President of the Council! I don't allow interruptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u16	SANTANGELO (M5S). You're lying! You're a coward! [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u17	Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u18	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. When, in the face of these tragedies, the Italian Parliament is not in a position to have unity and try to divide, I think it is a very sad page for those who compose it. [[Live comments from Senator Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u19	Senator Lezzi, I told you to stop!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u20	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] You too, Senator Santangelo. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I'd go back to the theme of the Olympics. The theme of the Olympic Games is the symbol of an Italy that manages to be credible in Europe, but I think it is also the symbol of a different idea of politics. In these six months we have seen some important steps in our work. The stage in the Mediterranean, with what is still taking place in these hours in Libya, what is taking place in Egypt, Tunisia and Algeria; very different stories from each other and, as is natural and physiological, the idea of having a significant intervention of the European Union in that area is the idea of who tries to ask our continent to become itself again. Europe was not born simply on the Mediterranean; it was born considering the Mediterranean as the central point of our foreign policy. Talking about foreign policy in Europe today means thinking about enlargement. We started from six countries and we have reached 28. In these six months, the whole path towards enlargement to Montenegro and Serbia has been strengthened and Albania has been selected as a candidate, and I find it very interesting that this happens exactly a hundred years after what happened in that area, inspiring and starting the First World War. This is Europe. It is not a contractual bond, but it is first and foremost an ideal of peace. Europe, before being a set of parameters, is a great dream. SIMONI (M5S). And you're killing him! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I dare to believe that the Nobel Peace Prize we received as European citizens in 2012 is not a Nobel Prize for the career, but a Nobel Prize for encouragement and message to the future. Alongside this, of course, there is the great issue, complicated for many years and made particularly difficult by what has happened in recent days, of enlargement to Turkey; it is quite clear that it is impossible to be part of the European Union without respecting the most basic rules of freedom and democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]] All this will be the subject of a debate on foreign policy which cannot be limited only to the Ukrainian affair, even in its gravity; because what is happening in the world calls, and in some way questions and questions, the heart of each of us. So on Thursday the European Council has these two main issues: foreign policy and economic development. Will we be able to live up to the challenge? I believe that we will only be if, on the occasions that we are building with determination and passion, we return to that ideal. Today I wanted to quote Luigi Einaudi, who in his speech in the constituent Assembly emphasized that if a human and modern ideal had not returned to the centre of Europe, Italy would be lost, and with it Europe. It is a great theme that I find of extraordinary and pressing topicality. They were words pronounced in 1947; tens of years have passed and yet we are in the same conditions, paradoxically: much has changed, many steps forward have been made, great is the strength, the power and the richness of our continent, but that need of ideal, that need to return to the basic ideal how true, how strong it is today. That is why I think it will be very important on the next occasions and opportunities to go back to highlighting Europe's cultural role: from too many European Councils we talk about everything but culture. Culture is not simply how to better manage a museum, which is also a priority in Italy; it is not simply how to rely on protection, which is also a priority in Italy: it is the very idea of the DNA of people and of a history that also makes this Palace a place full of opportunities; that makes our monuments something that speaks to the heart and to the life of each of us; that makes our students the strongest, most beautiful and most worthy of esteem that Europe can have. Of course this requires - and I have finished - that those who go to Europe to represent Italy believe in Italy; that when they sit in the European Parliament try to work so that the battles are won and not only stated; because when we are in the conditions of the European political debate, we first manage to tell the outside and inside that Italy is a country with a thousand problems - we know - but it is also a country that has made the history of this continent and that does not accept to play a lower role than what its ambitions pose. That is why I wanted to keep together, in this communication on the Council of the day after tomorrow, not only the issues related to major projects and big dreams that we are pursuing in the debate on infrastructure and in the debate on foreign policy, but also the very idea of what our country is. Today our country is at an interesting, important, significant crossroads. We have led Europe to say that growth is not a bad word; we have led one of us to lead foreign policy; we are happy if, by trying to achieve these objectives for which we have taken such a significant step forward, we will never give in to the policy of defeatism that sometimes animates someone outside of us, interested; but also someone who, in the face of problems, rather than trying to solve them, as the people paid by taxpayers to make politics, finds no better than screaming, giving breath to the vocal cords, but losing and betraying the hope of those who voted for it. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u21	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few minutes, so I have to come straight to the point. On the day that this House discusses Europe's competitiveness and growth objectives, I take this opportunity to talk about that 38% of the European budget for agriculture, that new common agricultural policy 2014-2020 which, while indicating important issues and priorities, still does not take all the opportunities for an agri-food industry on which Europe, and our country in particular, can invest an important piece of its future. It is a sector in which completely new professions and professions can be created, an area that has in itself the fundamental elements of life and sustainability, which while creating economy can produce better environment, better food, healthier and more culture: the maximum of the aspirations that we can give to our children. The President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, sent a letter of mandate to each Commissioner: these are letters not of circumstance, but genuine programmes of mandate. To the new Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Phil Hogan, in a nutshell, he entrusted this: implementing the reform of the CAP to maximise its contribution to the work and growth agenda; monitoring the effectiveness of expenditure programmes; contributing to the review of the 2016 programme. There's a lot to do to honor those commitments. The CAP in 2020 founded its programme on important premises: young people, environmental sustainability, quality of food, selection of beneficiaries, i.e. real farmers. Finally important innovations, but we are still far from a strong choice on competitiveness and therefore from the potential of work and growth that agro-food could generate. This sector in Italy, as throughout Europe, needs a radical change if it is to promote itself as an important driving force for economic development and for a new type of development: it must move from a widespread attitude of preservation of protection and income to an attitude of promotion of measurable factors of competitiveness; precisely measurable as is required, as is right. The real novelty, Mr Renzi, is precisely this and I hope that Italy, as President-in-Office of the European Council, but also later, will support this idea: moving from the preservation of agricultural income protection to the promotion of income-generating factors. We need to move from a Europe that for too many years told the producers: You produce and don't worry about the market in a Europe that says: I'll help you get to know the different markets and structure you so you can have the tools to face them directly. I help you create the conditions to enhance your product so that you can find adequate compensation from the market for that high value, certified health, distinctiveness that you have created. Instead, I support you in the face of those risks, which are not the normal risks of enterprise, but those that are not governable by individuals such as climate emergencies, hailing, flooding, drought or price volatility, generated most of the time by global speculations, or where the market cannot pay enough, on the mountains, on the ridges, where the producer has higher production costs, where he carries out a service of public utility in the settlement of water and in the support of the slopes, but also here not independently but through measurable criteria, real and recognizable services. It is a change of approach that is needed: it is necessary to move from the premium to the hectare to the premium of the quality of what I produce on that hectare, to a premium on how I intervene on that soil, without pesticides, with precision techniques for careful use of water and natural nutrients. Scientific variations of the concept of quality should be envisaged and approximations and demagogies should be overcome. Here, I believe we must demand that the debate on the mid-term review of the CAP planned for 2016 be based on an advanced logic, on a search for naturalness and distinctiveness not imposed by constraints of orders or decrees but as a strategic choice of competitive factors, because precisely on this and not on the undifferentiated commodities can compete the agricultural Europe in the world. It is a change of approach, the active one that does not give up the idea of an agricultural model set on the dominance of the commercial players in the supply chain and the weakness of the producers, who are losing the government of their products in every corner of the world (in different ways, in different proportions, from agricultural products to the race to the arable lands, from Europe to Madagascar, to many countries of Africa). I call it the sharecropping risk of the new century. I exaggerate, but perhaps not so much, if the producers of Parmigiano-Reggiano, one of the symbols of Made in Italy, risk to close the companies and the profits go to those who make and sell Parmigiano, if the industrialists start to buy the dairy, the milk, the raw material and introduces the soccida, which makes us go back a century. For a century, President! Here is a great piece of the competitiveness challenge: to ensure that European producers can be protagonists at all stages, up to the shelf; to ensure that the profits that are formed in the construction of the value chain can be generated and shared by the producers, for a holding of the productive enterprises, for a guarantee of the consumers, so that they are more informed, more aware, more decisive. This Government, this Parliament, the Ministry of Agricultural Policies - Minister Martina - have worked in this 2014 having in mind these scenarios, keeping together reforms of structures and measures for competitiveness. We have proposed and are approving, in agreement with the Government, a reform of public research instruments, instruments for the management of European resources and financial instruments for businesses, but we must do it quickly and intervene, because too many errors and too many inefficiencies have lost resources, where they were needed. We have to hurry! There is now a need for that research model, often of a very good level but too closed in the researcher's publications and not useful for the innovation of agricultural enterprises, i.e. the objective for which they were born. For over two years we have been working on this: there is no more time to lose. For the productive sector we have approved incentives to those who join, to those who make system in business networks and for the generational replacement - for agriculture to be a world for young people - and measures for internationalization and export, ranging from strengthening of the tools, to dedicated resources, to resources for new qualified skills. There is at last an extraordinary plan, but that alone is not enough: we need a Europe capable of systematically pursuing free trade agreements with the countries of the new economies, for the reduction of duties and for the recognition of uniform standards and practices in the international context. In this sense, the agreement with the United States, the now famous Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), will be emblematic and will be a test case for the whole world and for the agreements that will follow. There is a great space for European productions in international markets and a huge space for Made in Italy, but you have to have a strong awareness of the scenario in which we move. We must be aware of the fact that the map of productions is being redesigned worldwide, even in the agri-food sector and the centre of gravity of this map may no longer be Europe. A new structure is being created, driven by a great technological revolution and the entry of new competing countries, especially in the eastern area, from Asia and the Pacific. That is why it is not enough for one or two decrees, left to themselves in the ordinary course of procedure, but a strong political push, both national and European. As far as our country is concerned, the country of Expo 2015, the agri-food issue must be a national issue: we need an extraordinary pact for competitiveness, for the creation of systems aimed at internationalization, for the generational change. Here, Mr President, I am borrowing the words you have used these days, talking about the time of opportunities, which I find more appropriate than ever for agri-food. For agro-food the time of opportunities is now: it depends on us whether to surrender to the ferocious dynamics of the market or react and grasp them, for a true, stable and lasting restart, especially for the generations that will come. [[Applause from Senator Berger's PDe Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u23	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u24	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and President of the Council of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I would like to thank President Susta, who has offered me the floor over the time allocated to the Civic Choice Group for Italy, although, trying to correctly interpret the role of senator for life, after the government parenthesis, he has renounced any party membership. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But you made one. MONTI (SPI). I would like to congratulate you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on two aspects in particular of the action you have taken in Europe during the Italian Presidency. The first is the point of foreign policy: you have shown that you want to bet, even at a considerable risk, insisting on the appointment of an Italian personality to the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and this bet won it. I believe, like you, that foreign policy is essential, also in order to give identity to the European Union itself and I liked your reference to enlargement. This is a subject which we are not talking about today, but - let us be honest - that has been the most successful line in European foreign policy over the last fifteen years. In addition, I appreciated the action you have taken on economic growth. I would remind you that economic growth has become a primary objective of the European Union, with the June 2012 European Council, in which - at the impulse of the Italian Government and in particular with the meeting held at Villa Madama a few days before the European Council, with the Heads of Government of Germany, France and Spain - both the Growth Pact and the instruments for stabilising the then uneasy market within the eurozone have been developed. You have taken up the issue of growth very strongly, on which I will say a word in the next few minutes. On the subject of 2012, Mr President, I would like to clear the field from the supposition of different positions on the subject of the Olympic Games. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Supposedly? MONTI (SPI). I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that if he had been in that position in February 2012, he would not have taken a decision other than that of then, because you too would have had very dearly the design of an Olympic Italy and, however, would have been terribly concerned by the idea of jeopardising, with your signature on a blank guarantee, the precarious financial situation of the Italians for the coming years, at a time when we were in extreme difficulty. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). What has changed? MONTI (SPI). I am pleased that, with the work of the Government of that time and the subsequent one, a space and tools have been created so that you, today, have been able to take the decision you have taken, for which I do not go into the matter. There is space, because Italian public finance is not in the conditions of that time. I remember that we are the first country in the South to have emerged - as you know - from the excessive deficit procedure; and then also the instruments and what was done with the package, at the end of 2012, in anti-corruption matters, which your Government is developing, should put enough at risk. You have emphasized the subject of the Juncker plan, which also seems central to me. I would like to contribute to the action of the Italian Government with a reflection on public investment, which you have mentioned several times. As you know, since the Stability Pact was drawn up in 1996, I support the need to give a separate and more favourable space to public investment. A first official statement received by the European Union was only made in 2012-2013 when, after some battles at the European Council, the Commission and the other countries agreed that, for countries not subject to the excessive deficit procedure, there could be a particularly favourable look at public investment. Today we come to the Juncker plan; I would like to give you two suggestions in this regard, if you will allow me, and a warning, certainly useless. With regard to the first suggestion, it is possible to take the Juncker plan and say that it has quantitative gaps within it, as you yourself and your ministers have repeatedly argued. In any case, it would be inconsistent at the time when the Juncker plan was born - but there is also a great need for subsidiarity, which is very much felt in Europe - to give privileged treatment only to those investments that go through the centralisation of this plan, which we hope is not too bureaucratic. It would then be much more consistent to say that it is not only the national contributions given to the Juncker fund that are exempt from the Stability Pact, which may not, among other things, be in the least economic growth of the country that provides them, but also to national public investment that is subject to strict criteria as far as possible. The warning - I repeat - is superfluous that every voice on public investment coming from the Italian Government is accepted with some reluctance, since our governments have not been of monstrous ability to always exploit the funds coming from the European Union, although progress has been made in recent years. Certainly it is also crucial, for the credibility of the further Italian battle on public investment, that the law of stability does not slip from the last moment. I think it would be really dangerous, for the whole country and for its action in Europe, if - as we sometimes read, I think out of excessive alarm - we could find ourselves again in a situation at risk of troika. That would be the failure of three years of Italian sacrifices. Let's hope that doesn't happen. I should like to conclude with one comment: often in this and in the other. Parliamentary House and public opinion have the impression, sometimes even a little fueled by declarations by governments, that, if Italy were to succeed in obtaining authorisation for a larger deficit or, by not shifting the authorization, in a very male way it would make room and exceed the limits, that would be a victory over Europe and a victory over technocracies. No, no for two reasons: Italy would become weaker and we would also bring a vulnus not to Europe, but to our children and our grandchildren, who are in the terrible situation in which they are because Europe has arrived too late, not because it has arrived too much Europe with its financial discipline. One final point: in your statements on Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you combine politics, rules and technocracy with the wisdom we know of them, including at the didactic and oratory level. Now, considering that the technique, useful in its own field, becomes technocracy in my opinion only when politics takes fear, much fear and asks itself to take a step back, asking others, however designated, to take a step forward (but I do not think that you despise the technique, you are against the technocracy, as I am), well, we need more politics in Europe, a policy that, by force and ability to convince, leads to better rules. But be careful - if I may - not to degrade the rules and not to assimilate them to tics of bureaucrats, because, in a community like the European one, without rules and third-party institutions capable of enforcing them (the Commission, the Court of Justice), it is the strongest that prevails. Then it would be a tragic mistake for Italy, which believes, not unjustly, that the current rules have been too influenced by the German power, to lose credibility to the system of rules and its observance; this would be a gift to the worst Germany, not to Germany that wants to be a responsible force in Europe, but to a Germany that could return to spread. This would be the most tragic mistake Italy could make. Finally, I would like to remind you on this day, in front of you, in this House, of a personality which, because of the credibility and the holding of our country in Europe, even in the most difficult moments, has been able to exercise a discreet action, but which has made use of the enormous credit that it has built over the years: President Napolitano. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u26	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President of the Council and of the Council of the European Union, members of the Government, colleagues, Italy has guided the work of the Council of the European Union 11 times since 1957, the year of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. The first time in 1959, with Antonio Segni; since then, Italy has made a significant contribution, with fundamental steps, to the process of building the European Union. I remember a few of them: in December 1975 the European Council was held in Rome, which decided that in 1978 it would be voted for for the first time by universal suffrage. In June 1980 there was the Venice Declaration on the Middle East, which gives the Palestinians the right to self-determination and to all, including Israel, the right to existence and security. In June 1985, in Milan, what started at the end of 1992 became the Single European Market. And so on until 2003, in Rome, with the drafting and launching of the adoption of the final version of the European Constitution. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would not like to appear irreverent, but I wonder and ask you: why can your European Presidency ever be remembered? Of course, for the ambitious programme proposed. Simply consult the Internet to read that the Italian programme is determined to give impetus to a new legislature centered on providing concrete results and adequate responses to the expectations of citizens. In order to face the current political, economic and social challenges, there is a need for a united, active and effective European Union capable of making rapid and targeted decisions. The fight against unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, the relaunch of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as a platform for economic recovery and further development of the competitiveness of the European Union, European energy and climate policy, the completion of the single market, progress towards economic and monetary union, the management of external borders and the difficult problem of migration in the Mediterranean are just some of the themes of a rich agenda of politically correct and morally inevitable that has been described as a work programme against which what she has presented to us today cannot be described as an implementation. It must be said, for Christ's sake, that much of the semester has been spent with a Commission which has expired and one which has struggled to be born. But I wonder what the thematic advice has produced? How much have they called for action by the European institutions? Then forgive me if I insist on the subject, but you know, the tongue beats where the tooth pains, as they say. What have you done, or at least proposed, for our Mezzogiorno, or to say it better for the territories of the European cohesion policy? Abandoned to himself the South of Italy is limited to marking the coming Middle Ages of Italian society. A future of high youth unemployment, of widespread precariousness, of retrocession to second-level manufacturing power with a public sector screwed into a vicious circle of feeding subsistence costs. The truth is that what is happening to the European Union in recent years has little to do with the global economic crisis and much with the crisis of a political project and appears to many to be the most direct defiance of a path of sharing so far. It is probably due to the need for European leadership, under the obvious German hegemony, to consolidate an increasingly efficient and increasingly centralised structure, even at the cost of losing a few pieces on the road. She today with the phrase "we knock down the walls, we build the bridges" evoked La Pira. Good thing you didn't remember it here because you would have sunk the knife further into the plague of a bridge, the first, structural one Italy has been waiting for years and that you have remembered today will be realized on the Bosphorus thanks to Italian technology. How many other bridges will have to be expected for the recovery of a drifting Mezzogiorno against which we take no signal? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, last June I had allowed myself to say that the Italian Presidency of the European Union would have been a success if it had been able to give the people of South Italy, who generously spend themselves on refugees in the Mediterranean (poor who help the poor when the rich turn their heads elsewhere), a reason to be proud of being Italian and European. I'm sorry to have to say today that she didn't give us any. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u27	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr Renzi, you began by talking about games of 2024. It got a little confusing. It has exchanged this House for a stadium and has also anticipated the times: it is ten years from now the next games. You raised your voice, but we wonder for which audience. No one here in this House has said the words you have quoted to look for an easy applause. We didn't know who he was talking to, except the press or journalists. Know that this is not serious and for small men. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Finally, after years when Europe was talking about rigour, it now seems that we are talking about growth. Too bad that by obeying the directives of Europe we were on our knees. By obeying Europe, one of its predecessors, Monti, had decided to tidy up the accounts. Too bad that tidying up the accounts is simple: just go to the bank and pay the debt. Restarting a country's economy is much more difficult. Monti is an economist and sin that all economists say that, in times of recession and stagnation, policies of stimulus or, in any case, Keynesian policies are needed. We did the exact opposite. Let's take the last of the Italian entrepreneurs who can only manage his company and tell me if in a time of difficulty he goes to close the mortgage in the bank. He goes to the bank and asks for a delay, a postponement as our Latin essays suggested. Primum vivere, deinde philosophari, but we have followed the directives of Europe. We have done our homework quite rightly. The problem is that now it's much harder to leave. It seems that on the initiative of President Renzi Europe changes course and, in fact, Juncker decides to set in motion 300 billion destined for growth. We who are poor, small and understand little of economy, go and look and the 300 billion are not there. There are just over 20 of them. From 20 to 300 there is a multiplier of 15. But who do you think puts the other 14 in it? It would mean stimulating policies with 6.5% of incentives. We'll see why we'd like to lose this bet, but we think it's gonna be a big dip in the void. With regard to European sanctions, to follow Europe, we decided to sanction and we were sanctioned by Russia and we saw that the few exports that worked in Italy (meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables) were blocked. China has replaced our lack of gas supplies and now we have seen that we have recovered the closure of the South Stream project, so we will increasingly depend on the transport of gas from a branch passing through Turkey, which seems to us not to be a great democratic state for how it is acting and, above all, for the subtle relations it is holding with the Islamic State. Perhaps the common enemy is still the Kurds and we let things go on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We know what terrorism and international fundamentalism mean. You mentioned what happened not later than yesterday in Sydney. Australia is very far away, but Libya is in front of our home. The Libyan coasts are in front of us and we know that another caliphate has been set up in Derna and that a few thousand terrorists are about to leave for our coasts. And we know that in Italy they definitely don't come for holidays. This isn't happening, and this government doesn't seem to care about it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would like the issues of security and the survival of our economy to be dealt with at the next European Council, to be on its agenda and to become Europe's agenda. We would like you to carry them forward less theatrically and more effectively. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u29	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think that today the European Union would not exist without the culture, initiative and tenacious political action of Italy. It must be remembered: it is our merit and Italian politics. That said, we find the tones that are being used almost totally unacceptable. I am referring to the authoritarian tones of those who are not the direct expression of the peoples of the European Union, but are indirect expressions of national governments often weak in consensus and opposed in politics, and it recalls this and other countries of the European Union to the respect of the rules in economic and budgetary matters as if they were spanking an entire people for the behaviours, sometimes illegitimate sometimes illegal, that adopt certain bureaucracies of our public administrations, that concern some administrators of the public thing, as well as some expressions of the politics of our country, but that are not our country, are not our people and not even all Italian politics, neither all the Italian administration, nor all the bureaucracies, that is the servants of the State who work with attention and in the public interest. We had also greeted, Mr President, with some hope, the beginning of this semester with the idea of affirming a different role for our country than that to which it had been delivered in recent years. And that is what we want to approach our criticism of the action carried out in these six months, because of its inadequate effectiveness in relation to changing conditions. It was said that we would go along with a strong political electoral consensus that made the relative majority party expressing the President of the Council the most robust democratic and left-wing party in Europe, for which it would dictate rules, behavior and open scenarios. On the other hand, a right-wing man has arrived, compromised in terms of the management of tax policies in Europe, who has caused so much damage to this country and to the whole of the European Union, and we find ourselves accepting that he is dealing in our home: that gentleman who should not have been the President of the European Commission precisely because of his past as a supporter of tax havens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] At that time we were waiting, Mr President, and we are still waiting for real action on this front by Italy and its Government. We must no longer accept that those who have sinned say the rules, call the others; we must no longer accept that those who have brought this country, the whole European Union and the Mediterranean basin into confusion, despair and deeper economic backwardness, have rules. We have to dictate them, we have to change the scenario we are facing. We want to be the creators of our economic policy, but also of the economic policy of the European Union. Enough with supporting the privileges of a caste that plays in the stock exchange and makes the destiny of the peoples and confines them to hunger. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Enough with the acceptance of procedures that remove entire assets of economic resources and productive vocations of our countries, for the benefit of development ideas that pollute and contaminate our environment, without producing any positive effect on the level of growth, forcing the entire European economic system to policies of a clear recessive nature. Let's think about it, Mr. President. Italy is very rich in potential in our places, it is very rich in land, which today is worth as much gold as it weighs and which will be worth even more tomorrow, land that is the real still for the development of the future and for the solution of the problems of life of the future. We will not be able to live on the roofs of the nuclear power stations and not even on the chimneys of the factories of the German industry; we will have to feed ourselves and to do this we will need respectful agricultural resources. We will have to drink and for this we will need untouched sources; we will have to live in a natural environment where our children can still know the sun without being covered by a smoke hood, as well as in Beijing. We are faced with an economic frontier of the highest level, namely the protection of the environment, its recovery, the restoration of the conditions of the compromised territories, that is, we have an economy that can be exported, a study and research that can be useful also to others, to those of the economies in full development that, continuing on a road in which the product of the realization of man is not worth, that is the fruit of the fatigue, but only the banknote - although telematic - will leave the world by now completely plundered. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] Enough with those who give lessons having always had their feet warm, without ever having spent a day of suffering. We have a point of reference, that is to say the ability to recover our people who, after having gone through the saddest moments, has relaunched their history. That is what we must also recover and impose in Europe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us ask you to be the creator of our desire. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u31	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is an important meeting of the European Council, although unfortunately, yesterday from Sydney and today from Pakistan, we have seen how this appointment of our little ancient world has been pushed by reports of truly horrible terrorism. We very much appreciated the passage in which in the President-in-Office of the Council wanted us as Italians to be second to none in expressing the pain for the more than 100 Pakistani children who are no longer there. In the light of this sentiment, but on a different level, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our Group is allowing itself to ask without shouting, with discretion and participation, the greatest attention of the European Government and European foreign policy to the fate of two Italian sub-officers who have been mistreated in the last few hours by the Government of New Delhi. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), M5S, Misto-MovX and Senator Zin]] Now, the story we are going through in Europe has been well summed up this morning by a man whom we have had the opportunity to appreciate several times in the Senate Chamber. I am referring to Enzo Moavero Milanesi, who, in an article published in the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) points out that anti-European fever has become strong, indeed very strong, until it accredits political hopes in positions that for seventy years have been quite peripheral. Yes, but at the same time, Moavero Milanesi invites us to ask ourselves: of course, the European Union can be dissolved, but then where do we go? So those two themes on the European agenda, growth, investment and structural reforms together, become issues to which we attach ourselves. It is right that no one, nor the generation that gave us seventy years of peace, could predict that German unity would be achieved sooner and more coherently than European unity. There was also a reference in this sense in the words of the President of the Council and a broader and more intelligent reference was found in the speech made by President Napolitano in Turin, five days ago, together with the President of the German Republic, who addressed the subject of Germany in Europe with some trite banality. Giorgio Napolitano, citing Benedetto Croce and not Luigi Einaudi, recalled how Germany can and should be a friendly nation; when it claims to become a hegemonic nation dark days thicken, for Germany in the first place. This point of view, for which Enzo Moavero Milanesi continues to be Europeanist this morning on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), is indispensable and does well for the Italian Government to propose it again at this summit, but it must also be said that if it is to be a political construction Europe cannot have the currency at its summit. Currency can be an important element, but it is not from it that political cohesion can come and to be political subjects in times of China, Russia and India, America and Brazil, culture of the great political subjects, Europe must be more than ever an indispensable reference. But in order for Mogherini to really be one, it must really be at the head of a European policy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to conclude with two references that you have made in parentheses, almost in a low voice and that are indispensable to us. The first is European defence, in terms not different from those to which De Gasperi and Pacciardi had thought in 1953 and which France blocked. The other, I tell you just as a Florentine, and therefore as a better European than a Neapolitan, is the culture of a new European diplomacy, which has in the Fiesole Institute that university school reference left opaque for many years, and instead not to let go. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u33	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as it is now peaceful, the worst economic and financial crisis in recent history, in which we are still struggling to float, has seen, on the part of the European Union, the futility of any direct effort, before avoiding it and, after that, preventing its negative effects: every word intended to refute this simple reality is contradicted by the facts. A crisis also suffered because of a ruling class - ours - that led us to a false promised land, that of this euro, deceiving us that those sacrifices sustained to get there would follow a future well-being. The Commission communication of 28 November last speaks a language that we Italians, for having heard it from our governments, know very well: that of the half truths. It is certain, however, that in Europe, the modest increase in productivity, the low level of investment and the high level of structural unemployment limit Europe's growth prospects, all of which are the result of the austerity decisions taken to cope with these years of crisis. But it was not enough, now they want to sell, and we heard it this morning, the establishment of the new Commission (whose President is one of the most representative characters of the old Eurogroup regime) and his programme - a programme that says to bring more than 315 billion dowries - as salvific: it is yet another hoax! Real money, in fact, is just a few tens of billions, found in the folds of the already thin European budget: everything else is put back to the thaumaturgic forces of the financial levers. It is yet another game of the three cards on the back of the citizens of Europe. In practice, we will continue to pretend nothing, relying on the ECB alone and within the limits of its original mandate. The balance sheets are now silent in the face of data - overall and not representative of much more serious local situations - symptomatic of the failures caused by their structural forecasts, whose optimism has been lost on paper. (Senator Marcucci spoke with President Renzi.) CANDIANI (LN-Aut). A little respect for the House! VOLPI (LN-Aut). I mean, pay attention. MOLINARI (M5S). While regulations were being invented to apply the noose of the fiscal compact (with their sad corollars) and covenant tools to blackmail states worn out by bad political classes and lack of resources, a continent remained standing on the stake to satisfy the selfishness of one part of it, that 10 percent of the population who saw its income continue to increase, with good peace of an endangered middle class. In the meantime, household consumption and business expectations were sacrificed by those who, in order to protect speculative and unscrupulous finance, in the shadow of the banking system, burned the liquidity of the system, which instead had to be allocated to the renewal of infrastructure, technology, education for innovation, rather than aid to a financial-banking system, claiming that this favoured the economic system as a whole: what is left of those false certainties? In order to save the privileges of a corrupt financial and banking system, Europe's productive capacity has been undermined and the hopes of those who, in order to survive, have nothing more to offer than their own workforce have been destroyed: how can we now have the courage to come and talk about wanting to safeguard Europe's growth potential? But in Italy, with these last three governments, we are obsessive and the Commission can rest assured: the expected structural reforms of the markets for goods and services and the labour market will be implemented, once again, at the expense of the workers: and to guarantee it will be the jobs act! To hear more about fiscal strategies and growth set to recovery combined with economic growth and with the usual rigour reminds a little 'unprobable diets where it promises to lose weight always eating the same soups. But where in Europe did they think that they would take the resources of the States to return to high debts, if not to the increase in taxes and the decrease in public investment and social benefits and wage dumping? It seems to us that this yet another European semester was yet another opportunity lost by Italy and Europe to be able to hope for a different Europe, plus the unpleasant feeling of being mocked by what is leaking from the poor conscience of the European institution and which could make us say: We told you so! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to repeat the question I raised on the occasion of the update note to the DEF: will Europe without Italy not exist, but does this Europe agree with Italy? Let us ask ourselves this question during your trip to Brussels, because many of our fellow citizens are beginning to ask themselves. It is the fault of those who lost sight of the European ideal, which was not to create yet another supranational body in front of which to slam heels, but to make peaceful coexistence of peoples who hoped for a future of peace and freedom between peers and which, unfortunately, the European ruling class betrayed by putting all decisions back into the hands of technocrats, transforming Spinelli's dream into a nightmare. It is time, in Europe, to return to talk about politics and to discuss the pacts to relaunch that original plan, or to suffer the consequences will be our children, because on the horizon ghosts are coming back that we thought we had relegated in the darkest recent past of our history. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Minister, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, this Italian-led European semester seems to me to be coming to an end in the way it began: with a very general speech, even more general than at the beginning of the semester. Today we would have expected to listen to the results, instead these six months have been much predicted in expectations, but little achieved. So we do not feel any results because unfortunately there are no results. Of course, you told us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that on 13 January this is the time to make the final report, and we hope, for the sake of our beloved country, that in these fifteen days, including the holidays that are missing at the end of the semester, the results that have not come so far will come. The main result seems to be the Juncker plan, which evidently, as the name itself indicates, is certainly not a thing of Italian origin, with the famous 300 billion (to be precise, it would be 315) which, however, are the result of a calculation made of hopes. On the other hand, the funds that the European Union actually puts into place are 21 billion in three years; the other billions, almost 300, are supposedly what should come out with the calculation of leverage, from this investment of 21 billion. We are talking about EUR 7 billion a year: EUR 1.14 per month for every citizen of the European Union, when Italian citizens, on average, pay only 35 per month for house taxes. Then it's really a drop and maybe it's not even a drop. How to expect these 21 billion investments at European Union level to mobilise another 300, when for example a very simple thing was not achieved on which a commitment had been made: I am referring to the fact that the co-financing of European funds by the Italian local authorities, including regions, of course, was not counted for the purposes of the Stability Pact. Nothing has moved in this direction, and it is one of the many reasons why this money, if it ever comes, will hardly be used and even less will generate a multiplication of private investments. What has been achieved on Made in Italy, which is one of our priorities? We must certainly focus on the positive and extraordinary things that our country has, but the European norms - as we know, many well-directed also by very powerful international companies and companies, perhaps generous of funding to certain political subjects - have an interest in flattening everything, even if the extraordinary Italian quality is recognized worldwide. In fact, if there is a country where it is recognized less it is Italy. Elsewhere they all bring it as an example of quality, but we let it be trivialized, flattened, even sometimes canceled by European norms for which the excellent products (especially of agriculture, but also in fashion and in thousand other sectors) Italians lose in fact this diction, perhaps with the content of being able to assume the brand made in Europe. Think about it: made in Europe! But who would buy Estonian pasta or Swedish ham? What has been done - I will be very brief on this, because I agree that there should not be much talk about it, but something should be done - on the issue of the Maroons, with the Presidency of the European Union? These are two European soldiers who have been detained for far too long, and if they were to be established, if they were to be granted that they had actually committed the crime, both for the Italian and the Indian rules, they could in no way be detained in a preventive prison regime. I repeat: neither by Indian law nor by Italian law. On this, also with Senator Manconi, we have tabled more than one question, to which we have not received an answer, but we would be interested to achieve the result and the result is not there. As far as immigration is concerned, what has been achieved? Immigration is not the problem of some political force or of some neighborhood in Rome, but it is a problem that our fellow citizens feel. At a time when certain social and vital support for our families is cut and sometimes removed, hundreds of thousands of people who come from abroad to tens of thousands month after month once they are in our country benefit from much greater support than those enjoyed by our families. It is not a question of racism or anything else, but it is a question of understanding, if there is money, whether it is appropriate to use them to encourage these people to come to our country and maybe pay them even if they have so many children, as we do now with the law of stability, or if we should rather adopt a different approach with them, helping first the Italian families. Another problem on which we see no result is a fundamental problem for the European Union: Germany's surplus. There are countries, including Italy, that have exceeded certain parameters, but the parameter of the commercial surplus is a more important parameter than the others. Although it is apparently virtuous that two countries such as Germany and the Netherlands (almost these only) export much and matter little, the problem is that this means that in this way Germany uses the rigidity of the euro to achieve a result that without euro could never achieve, i.e. export much more than it imports without losing competitiveness because of the appreciation of the currency, while if we were in the situation before the mark it would have increased its value much on the lira and at least our country would be more competitive. Unfortunately, this does not appear to have been seriously addressed either. Your words about Islamic terrorism certainly all agree with us: it is a very serious threat and it is right that you have made a strong reference to this point, but in concrete terms what is the most important action developed by the European Union in these six months? The sanctions against Russia, which certainly does not represent even remotely the danger that constitutes the Islamic State and which is certainly an important economic partner for the European Union, first and foremost for Italy, which has an exchange with Russia similar to that of the United States of America in terms of size not proportional but absolute. How, then, can one think that the most important action is against Russia? You yourself, Mr President, have made a public statement against sanctions, but unfortunately at the time when you are chairing the European Council, sanctions are there and are particularly damaging to the Italian economy. I also believe that they are only an advantage for that famous Islamic State which you rightly mentioned as dangerous. It is also right to have this positive vision of Europe, which does not mean not to be critical of the things that Europe is wrong; but Europe must be taken whole, especially to take the good of it. Europe, for example, would ask us to pay the debts of public administration. He would have always asked us, but in particular when the government made a precise commitment and instead of the 68 billion was paid only a small part, apparently less than a third. There should be competition, whether a company is public or not, whether it already manages goods on behalf of the State or whether it is a new company. We had made an excellent law, also on the basis of European standards, so that the companies involved would compete with other companies: beyond the choice of abolishing or cutting them, if a participating company is competitive, that's fine. However, there was a referendum to abolish this rule and now these companies remain undisturbed. Who knows why? The European Union would impose the races to grant, for example, motorways (this is a deal of EUR 40-50 billion), but with a rule contained in the so-called Italian unlocking decree, it has tried to extend these concessions, with a profit for very identifiable groups, which are precisely those that already run the highways today without having ever won a race. Unfortunately, this semester concludes by highlighting another problem: President Renzi, you are the President of the Council with the least parliamentary support that has ever been in the European fora, because with the opinions delivered this morning to the Chamber of Deputies and at the beginning of the semester completely prevented yourself and our country from being able to have a President of the Council who goes to the European fora with great parliamentary support. President Renzi, you are content with the majority and we are not seeing how this majority has been formed. You are satisfied with the majority - and this had never happened before - by expressing an opinion in favour only of the naked and raw approval of your statements and giving an opinion generally contrary to everything else. Unfortunately, we would need a stronger Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for not starting the debate on the European meeting that will take place over the next few days, citing the tragic incident that took place this morning in Pakistan, unfortunately accompanied by the other tragic episode, although perhaps not of the same size, which took place yesterday in Australia. This is a first step towards a political revival and an ideal political culture which, in my opinion, is important, namely that we need Europe as a dimension to be in the global world and that foreign policy - as united and strong as possible - serves us precisely to combat human rights violations and terrorism. This passage struck me: even if it may seem like something taken for granted, this is a first passage of the soul of each of us, because in 2014 - even if this did not apply even in the years 2000 and in the previous years - we can no longer imagine that we have no connection and interdependence. We are interdependent from all points of view, and our culture, the history of Europe and respect for human rights and peace - for which I believe that we all work in this House - must lead to recognition of the importance of this aspect. This was therefore not a short-term choice, and this issue could have been left out of the President-in-Office's speech at the beginning of the debate. I therefore welcome this choice, precisely because I believe it is linked to the European dimension. There is a second reflection that I want to propose and which is also contained in the communications made by the President-in-Office of the Council. I would particularly like to address Senator Malan, who, just before me, criticized the Juncker plan very much: I understood, Senator Malan, that you are part of that same political part. I say this because, frankly, we should be mutually committed, at least as a country outside our borders, to determining together what, together, we consider to be fundamental for Europe. I make this reflection, not out of abstract controversy, but because I am convinced of a passage of which there is still no great awareness, even in our country. Perhaps - indeed, surely - this awareness exists in this House, but it is not in the country as a whole. Look at what is being played as a political confrontation in Europe, between a Europe of accounts and parameters that has remained the same and continues to want to remain so and not to be the Europe of growth and work, exists and has not disappeared. In the same way, with the last European elections, another significant part of Europe has emerged, fortunately not majority in the different countries, which in reality thinks that, faced with the problems actually created by the Europe of the only rigour, we can tackle the issues of growth and work by unraveling Europe. In this sense, in our country, certain issues have been raised since the elections of 25 May this year, which have given an extra piece of strength to the Democratic Party, within the European Socialist Party which raises the issue of growth, work and employment. The simple and trivial reflection that I have done in previous years, and that I want to do with you here, is as follows: if the confrontation in Europe is this, which each of us with its different nuances affirms, the first thing to acknowledge - in my opinion - to this Government is objectively the fact that it has taken part in the most difficult process of building the new European Commission and with determination. In my opinion, if we had and will also have the whole United Country behind us later on on on this, we will have more strength to determine and to make exactly that change happen. It is the interest of the country that comes before the individual interest of partisan. On this I think it is important to say that European policy is, for economic and social policies, the dimension to be measured: the country system becomes stronger and more authoritative, if it is united on these lands. In our home, then, we can make all the political differences - there would be nothing else - and fight all the political battles, healthy and legitimate. I think the government brought home this result. The President-in-Office says there are only words. I should like to say, Mr President, that I know the European dimension from a different point of view, thanks to my previous experience, as follows. The fact that Juncker has, however, given way (certainly, under pressure from his election determined by the obviously democratic numbers of the European Parliament) on the need to take on the issue of investment outside the Stability Pact, on the value of those drivers that underline growth for employment of a qualitative and therefore sustainable type, while continuing to politically believe in their countries that Europe of numbers, parameters and austerity is good, I think it is an important political fact. It must be understood that this is an important political fact to stop on and bring home a result (and then obviously not to stop, but to move on). If I may say so, sometimes in Europe they told us, while we supported these things, that we were not credible because somehow we did not have the whole country behind us; on the contrary, we must know how to say it with great force, because it is a piece of the authority and reputation that a country has within this dimension. I would like to make two final comments, Mr President. Here too - as you rightly say - we will make the final assessment of the six months. We are talking about six months of a Presidency and not five years of a political responsibility for Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When you talk, you need to know what you're talking about. Then we will conclude these six months, we will discuss and we will also see how the next Council will go, so on 13 January we will see each other on this ground. I want to stress another point. Some things have been achieved. There are important things, Mr President, related to the objectives already stated also within the investment plan that have remained open, on which we will have to work even after the European Semester, because our ability to stay in Europe will not end. On the contrary, we will have to do more and I would like to mention two aspects which I consider to be linked to the quality of investment and the effective creation of work. One concerns - it was mentioned by others in another way, I quote from the way I know it - the new investment policies, which create sustainability and sustainable competitiveness for the whole European system, thus creating credible and future work; but they also need us to keep open the front of the mutual rules for international trade. We cannot continue to ask manufacturing and industry to invest in job-creating innovation and research and then not have equal conditions in global competition. Look, this is a question of democracy and liaison on this issue. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The second and last point concerns everything that is very important at this stage about the relationship and the new free trade agreement between Europe and the United States of America. Mr President, this is a very sensitive subject, we know that it is a subject which contains very difficult terrain and contradictions. In this sense, I think that this is also a matter of serious attention; it concerns the whole of Europe and its fundamental principles, but it obviously concerns, in particular, the quality producing countries, which want to be in the world with equal rules, which do not want protection, but want equal rules. This is also a fundamental element. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, go on with your work, as you have done with determination to date, because it is people who believe in Europe who can change and relaunch this Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u39	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1, by Senator Calderoli, No 2, by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Susta and Di Biagio, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Candiani and other Senators, No 5, Senator Airola and other Senators, and No 6, Senator Paolo Romani and other Senators have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. As the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers gives up his reply, I would ask the Government to give its opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u40	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution No 1, which is in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2, and against the motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 2, and against it. 3, 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u43	You have the floor! DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for sharing in this House the intentions with which our country will be presenting itself to the European Council in the coming days. As you yourself said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, two will be the important themes of the next European Council: foreign policy and investment policy. With regard to 26 November last, Juncker, presenting the plan of 300 billion, said that this Christmas year will come soon. In this announcement, the intention to send a message to Europe and the rest of the world is clearly to be welcomed: Europe is back on track. In fact, Europe has never been off track; we are the old continent, to which everyone looks like the old essay. We must, however, give Italy credit for bringing the issue of growth back to the centre of Europe. And growth, especially at a stage of stagnation such as the one we are going through, cannot be without a substantial increase in investment. The Juncker Plan, to be approved by the next European Council, provides for a European Fund for Strategic Investments, with a budget of EUR 13 billion, EUR 8 billion from the Commission and EUR 5 billion from the EIB. These funds will be used as the first guarantee offered to private individuals for the risk of losses in investment projects. The stated objective is to stimulate private investment without creating further debt. Of course, it is difficult to assess the likelihood that the estimated total of 315 billion new investments will be reached from 13 billion but, at the moment, the plan is the only European investment project and as such should be welcomed. This European Council will also be the last to see Italy as its President. We are waiting for January to take stock of the six-month period in the Italian Presidency. However, we can certainly agree with what the Government has said on several occasions, namely that the semester is not only the five months between July and the beginning of December: the semester is six months, but also the five years of the European legislature. We strongly share the Government's approach, as European choices are the result of a democratic process involving 18 euro-currency countries and 28 countries in total. Europe is not finished, it is a process that is constantly evolving and the processes need a long time to decide: it is certainly not enough for a six-month period. This must encourage Italy never to lower its guard on relevant issues, such as growth and the reduction of inequalities. In order to do this, however, Italy, as you have always said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, must continue to focus on credibility and reputation. This is because the lack of credibility is closely linked to the lack of reputation, the inability of the authorities to fulfil their commitments, demonstrating inconsistency between announcements and facts. Italy is doing a great job to restore lost credibility, a job that does not end with the semester but that must go on in time. Thanks to this restored credibility, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I put to you a question of cover. The Juncker plan envisages that 6 of the 13 billion allocated from the European budget will be withdrawn from the Horizon 2020 programme, a programme for the financing of research. We believe that serious consideration is needed. By reducing the resources devoted to research, the Commission responds to the same message as past Italian governments: do not believe in human capital as a flywheel of growth. We know how much you've done with education, school, searching for your battle horses. We therefore ask you to support the same arguments at the European Council in order to avoid cuts in basic and first-use research done in universities and public and private centres that live thanks to the ability to acquire, on a competitive basis, funding that comes to a large extent from Horizon 2020. There is another aspect to consider, Mr President. Basic European research, together with the Erasmus programme, is a powerful antidote to the growing fragmentation of Europe. It is an incalculable contribution to human and social cohesion, even before it is intellectual, which Europe needs more than ever in its process of completing towards a true economic, monetary, fiscal and capital union. We know that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, share this need and we are ready to support all initiatives to relaunch our country on this front too. The new opportunities to attract investment and decline funding should also be welcomed by opening up new horizons of partnership and cooperation, such as those arising from energy policy agreements. The scenarios that open up, both in energy policy and in foreign policy, with the important challenges before us call us to develop courageous strategies and, at the same time, provide an opportunity to take back the European Union we have chosen and are part of. In this context, we support what you have highlighted and we wholeheartedly renew your confidence and support in the challenges ahead. That is why I fully agree with the contents of the motion for a resolution tabled by our majority in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u44	[[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u47	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Mr President, I shall not have any words as someone, in a rather incongruous way, from the point of view of understanding and completeness, has done so far. I do not want to bother either Altiero Spinelli or good Luigi Sturzo when they referred to the idea of a common market which essentially has to correct the failures of stateism. We are in the presence of a President-in-Office of the Council who does not answer a question, just as the two predecessors have not answered, on what type of government he presides over. Is it a Social Democratic, Socialist, Liberal or Communist Government? I would like to ask him if he wants, in fact, to govern this country by attacking the real knots of debt and parasitic spending in a state that irreparably resembles what was built 40 years ago with the lever of public spending and public debt. I therefore wanted to ask the President of the Council of the European Union, who with great boldness came to express warlike intentions on the opportunities that Italy would have taken through its presidency, what results it brought home. I didn't know what they were. We have seen speeches which - and I will say Mr Renzi - seemed like anacholytes, syntactically perfect phrases, but not related to the report he was supposed to make in this House. Has it brought about the redefinition of Maastricht's constraints? No. Did you get the spread of investment expenditure in the debt-to-GDP ratio? No. Have you obtained that the European Central Bank, to protect the currency, could beat currency and, therefore, raise this country from a essentially monetary crisis, as there is no material money to spend? No. Have you achieved anything significant from this Presidency? No. These are the things people expect to hear. The rest, let me say, is academy display. I am sorry for Senator Monti: if people turn away from politics, it is because they do not understand it. Instead, I want to give you a reason for reflection. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union has issued a rule banning the use of Burley tobacco, which keeps the cigarette on. 100% of that tobacco is produced in Campania, Puglia and the southern regions. This rule puts tens of thousands of family farms that grow Burley tobacco in the middle of the street and which sustain them. From here to December 31st do this thing and forget about La Pira, which you have never read and studied. Read Don Lorenzo Milani, who said that the greatest of injustices is to make equal parts as unequal. Go to Brussels and accomplish at least one of the 100 things you promised. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u50	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall be much shorter than the eight minutes allocated to me. On behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, I would first of all like to thank the President of the Council, Mr Renzi, for the excellent work he has done in Europe, particularly during this six-month Italian Presidency. It is in fact undeniable that, thanks to its work, Italy has regained authority and its voice is again heard in Europe. It is true that to remain credible not only the announcements and the good intentions, but we need concrete reforms and a first step has already been taken with the reform of the labour market and with the courageous law of stability for 2015 that we are here to approve. I believe that with these few months available, given the technical time required in Parliament, the Government could hardly do more. If we continue, Government and Parliament, to move forward on the path we have taken, we will be able to show that Italy has really changed, and only then will the Government be able to assert its reasons in Europe and demand greater flexibility. It is clear that in 2015 Italy will finally have to start to grow, otherwise there will be a worsening of an already dramatic situation. As far as we are concerned more closely, as representatives of special self-governments as well, we consider it essential to pursue a macro-regional strategy for the Alps, because only in this way can we solve some key problems affecting all the Alpine regions, first and foremost the transfer of freight traffic from rubber to rail. We thank the President of the Council for his strong support for the construction of the Brenner base tunnel and we are confident that he will also be able to unlock the issue of the concession for the Brenner motorway, which will allow the financing of the tunnel itself, which has a strategic value not only for our land, but also for the whole country, as it will help to strengthen and speed up our connections with other European countries. I therefore conclude by saying that the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE recognizes itself in the majority motion for a resolution and will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u53	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr Renzi, it is clear that the European Semester is beginning to come to an end and we certainly did not need this debate (which I fail to define more useful in terms of content for those who go to the benches of the Presidency than to the senators) in order to understand that what we have witnessed today, which is nothing more than the reply of what has already happened in the House this morning, is a well-made and well-designed staging, as you know, as a very good juggler of words, in order to deceive the citizens that the Italian presidency of the European Semester may have had some significance. If a Presidency can have any meaning, it must be seen from the facts: facts that are not there, Mr President. To date, in fact, this remains the country with the highest ratio between taxation and gross domestic product (53.2%), abundantly superior to any other European country, even the Nordic countries that are well known for having a high social state and high taxation. We are even above 51% of Denmark or France. How, then, to fail to understand your friends as Marchionne, Mr President, that you left with Ferrari after taking FIAT's administrative headquarters to London to avoid paying taxes? In fact, the difference between us and her is that for us the business point of reference are the traders, the craftsmen, are the small and medium-sized enterprises; it is not the FIAT of capital and finance that practically no longer even has production in Italy; it is not a company that carries its own tax office in Holland or Luxembourg or the administrative headquarters in London and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. These are not positive points of reference; they may be points of reference for you if you need to have some favorable article from the press or some other newspaper in the industry; they may be favorable articles to have some extra guests at the 1,000 euro dinners. On this, Mr President, let us also be a little more realistic in terms of consistency. We need everything except a President of the Council of Ministers who, going to represent the country abroad, pretend that what happens in Italy is of no value, because what happens in our country these days is very serious and first of all undermines the trust of our fellow citizens in the Government and institutions. In fact, what is happening in Rome Capital cannot be hidden with the candidacy placed at the Olympic Games of 2024, when we all know very well what response there will be in 2017 [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] His vision of government, moreover, is not that of the thousand days. Today you are holding this stage with blackmail to your political party, with elections coming one day yes and one day no, with an electoral law that one day in the Commission accelerates and one day comes out of attention, with reforms that have no content with respect to the welfare of citizens, reforms that cannot move the economy, because they have no economic content. That is the difference between us and you; that is what leads us to disagree with your speech. You could do one simple thing here today: collect our stimuli. We, in fact, are not limiting ourselves as other political opposition forces to saying what is wrong; we are also asking you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a serious tax reform of the country, to apply a single tax rate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Apply the flat tax; lead our country to be fair to those who pay taxes and to be strict to those who escape them. His participation in the European Council would also be serious about this. Be serious, Mr Renzi, and remember that during this European semester you had opportunities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He had the opportunity to develop the dossier of Made in Italy, which instead remained a dead letter, with a short-sightedness that can only be justified with respect to the commitments you made with Merkel and with other European partners, who certainly granted you to have Minister Mogherini as a high representative of European foreign policy, but who prevented the Italians from seeing the dossier of Made in Italy developed, which is the most important thing he had to keep to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] No, ma'am, we're not here. You cannot continue to deceive the citizens in this way. We will not fail in our duty to make it part of our proposals. We are a force of opposition, but we also clearly tell the citizens to be careful because deceptions are dressed in very gentile forms, with the search also for easy applause. This is not the case, however, for a country to be governed: this is the difference between a foreman and a statesman, and she is certainly not a statesman. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u56	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are very far from the liberal right and, even more so, from the populist and nostalgic right of the tyranny of the 20th century. We want a Europe of participation, autonomy, responsibility, Mediterranean policies, the process of ecological conversion of the economy, development based on the resources and productive vocations of the places. That is why, Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 3 and not Amendment No 2. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u59	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the New Right Centre, which in these hours, in conjunction with other colleagues, takes on the name of the People's Area, expresses my sincere appreciation for its communications. Our identity as a liberal people willing to fulfil the European dream leads us to share, in particular, its call for the European dimension to be the primacy of politics, to express itself in an ambitious ideal vision of enlargement and of the Union's influence, to which currency, sword and felucca represent the great powers devolved to a true confederation of sovereign states, to which Europe is the protagonist of development for all through investments and reforms. The primacy of politics also means today, in the face of epochal challenges not inferior to those of the founding fathers or those of the protagonists of Maastricht, having a vision of the future possible and with it the courage of the strategic decisions with which men change for a long time to come the course of events. You have here expressed, for tomorrow's Europe, a vision that is dear to us and which we could define together as Western, Pan-European and Mediterranean. That is, it is a proud and ambitious perspective, because still our future to the ancient and modern principles of our civilization, aspires to the coincidence between geographical Europe and political Europe, identifies the new frontier in the Mediterranean that we want to widen to include. Just one note to you and your Government: be even more proud, if possible, of the real and concrete result you have achieved in the six-month Presidency of which the conclusion is approaching, namely that you have led Europe as a whole, for the first time, to govern this strategic frontier according to shared principles of security and humanity. This is perhaps the first real step in the direction of those powers of the sword and the feluca which, with the completion of the function of the currency, we want to represent the content of the United States of Europe. And without Mare nostrum, with all its efforts and its criticalities, there would not have been now the Triton operation of which we must be, I repeat, legitimately proud! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] The same investments that we have to invoke, in the awareness that they constitute a fundamental lever for the development and employment of the member countries, must be drawn primarily according to the geopolitical vision, that is, common projects, transnational, useful to enhance the capacities of relationship between ourselves and with others. In other words, let us start again from Delors and first of all propose those large networked and punctual infrastructures which have the strength to mark trade and political relations for a long time. But at a time when the President of the Bundesbank Weidmann reduces expectations of the use of monetary leverage by the Common Central Bank, it is also necessary to tell us that all liquidity-providing policies, even when they are implemented through the Community budget or, as in the case of our stability law, through the national budget, only work if they meet a reactive society. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have rightly mentioned as a metaphor for what I am saying on the third bridge over the Bosphorus. We must return to being dynamic, flexible, optimistic, confident, so that, when you want to do something in Italy, you can really do it, individually and collectively. For this reason, we have called for the inclusion in the resolution of the approval of its communications of a reaffirmation of the majority's commitment to the rapid approval of labour reforms, tax systems, justice and public administration, as fundamental instruments for unblocking Italy. And all these reforms will have to be simple and drastic, because each of their messy results would only give rise to a definitive and irreversible distrust in our ability to change. For this same reason, we are with you in wanting those great events that can really change the destiny of a nation, authentic challenge with ourselves, before with others, bearers of given locks within which we must achieve concrete goals through the most widespread mobilization of the energies present in our society. As the political leader who formed me most said: If you have to do it, you can do it! Good work, Mr President-in-Office. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u62	AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Mr Renzi, most of your speech is a copy of the slogans contained in your speech on the eve of the beginning of the European semester. "You cannot be more attentive to austerity than to the health of your children": slogan. "We cannot leave Europe in the hands of technocrats": slogan. "Enough with Europe that cares only with the zero comma": slogan. "The Juncker plan provides 315 billion for investments": slogan. Meanwhile, the starting billions are 21, which are multiplied by a base of 8, with a system of levers and a dark plan that even the "Finncial Times" has failed, and that recalls so much speculation about the derivatives with which Europe has fallen into this crisis. So this is also a slogan: at least for us, not for banks. In between, nothing. No Italian has noticed our presidency of the European Union, what has happened in these six months. Or, better, they have noticed a change of three foreign ministers in a year; they have noticed that we are not counting anything in the European Union; that we are counting nothing at the United Nations; and that we are not counting anything even in bilateral relations, as is shown by today's news about the Maroons. We noticed that public debt has increased by 23.5 billion: laugh, laugh, Renzi! And that they downgraded our rating - think - to a step above the junk titles. This is Italy. It's not funny! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Italians have noticed that the situation on immigration has deteriorated dramatically, and that Europe, which had to help us in reality, has tightened our borders. Italians today remember three words: The Treaty of Dublin, the one that stops refugees in Italy; this is what the Italians have learned. The Italians have noted that in the South the percentage of the employed - I repeat, of the employed, gentlemen, not of the unemployed - is 30% and that unemployment, which constantly grows in Italy at a dizzying rate, has reached 13.2% (and the youth rate at 43%). In these months Italians have noticed that the house can be lost in a blink of an eye. The Italian people have noticed that their slogans on the outskirts, those which this morning pronounced to the House, according to which the outskirts are not saved with the demonstrations and the processions, but with the sports fields, urbanism and associationism, are insults if you really live the outskirts. One tells him, like me, who has lived for forty years in the outskirts of a large city administered for thirty years by the PD, by his party. The Italians have noticed that Mafia Capitale is yet another demonstration that this policy is marching to the core and that the money that had to be spent to improve the lives of everyone, especially those who live on the outskirts of our cities, have divided old friends and not the band of the Magliana, former terrorists, ex or not former politicians to various degrees in the administration and in the local and national politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, his considerations (what he does between a joke and a tweet) about the serious loss that would not have the Olympics in Rome in 2024 scandalize because everyone - I say everyone - knows very well what happened in Turin 2006, with the Winter Olympics: a non-existent revival of the city, a deindustrialization of the FIAT, a rain of funding and today abandoned structures (come to find me) and debts for billions (5 or 7, we do not know). What happened to the 2009 World Swimming Championships in Rome? Same movie. What happened at Expo 2015? Bipartisan arrests. Expo 2015, what Letta said would save the nation's economy: your economy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And so the businesses of broad understanding, which continue, like Unipol-FonSai, like the MOSE (another manger). So much then you save yourself with a vote, blocking the use of interceptions to the magistrates: it is easy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Good boy, Alberto! AIROLA (M5S). Speaking of corruption, the international body Transparency International has published a report that sees Italy first in corruption in the European Union. We are in 69th place in 175 countries in the world, the taillight of the G7 countries, last in Europe, without anyone behind us anymore. And that weighs 60 billion. According to the European Commission, the correct anti-corruption rules are missing. By the way, since you enjoy telling people that we're just screamers, you know, meetuppers screaming. [[Live comments by Senator Castaldi who draws the attention of the President of the Council]] , explain to us a little 'if, in your opinion, the evaluations of the national anti-mafia prosecutor Roberti are correct or wrong, who considers our anti-corruption plan the only effective among those proposed [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell us if in this Parliament, where you sit now... And please pay some attention to this Upper House of the Italian Parliament. (16.21) (Following AIROLA). This Parliament is debased, annihilated by the continuous anti-institutional and unconstitutional decrees, by thirty trusts, it is the place where all democratic rules are violated and we are annihilated by a government dictatorship. Senator Tocci, not just any meetupper, said that government dictatorship, understood? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have to find things to do the big voice. And I'll tell you more: above all you make a big voice, if after you have done it you finally see recognized the right to schedule a bill of oppositions, for example that on the income of citizenship. The Budget Commission, on Friday, considered the financial cover of EUR 17 billion to be eligible and therefore genuine and would support 9 million Italians. Proposals that you failed miserably [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Castaldi's live comments]] , depriving Italians in poverty and poverty of EUR 780 per month. Other than the 80 euros you proposed for an exchange vote! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell us whether it is we who do not want to change this country or whether it is you and your party, that agrees with a known prejudiced outside these classrooms on constitutional reforms, electoral laws and even the election of the President of the Republic. Among other things, there must be someone who lies in this story, because for Berlusconi there is and for others there isn't. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll tell him without yelling, quietly. Maybe he didn't notice, but the tax burden is so heavy that the screams that you hear are not those of the triggers, but those of the entrepreneurs who close the companies and the workers who lose their jobs. Are they trivial? Are those slogans? Try to get out of here and ask the first one who passes. You want fiber all over the country? You can do it, just cut the discounts a little bit at the dealer friends, maybe increasing two or three times the concessions to Motorways. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we want to give the country a future, we vote on citizenship income. Instead of presenting designs of anti-corruption law, we give space to the draft laws that are in the Justice Commission, including that of Senator Grasso. We have proposed dozens of solutions to tax small and medium-sized enterprises, which were not shouted; they have been proposed in the Commission, but they have been rejected. Finally, the hydrogeological failure: continues to this day. Today it has rained, nothing has been done and people will continue to die and above all we will have a nice Christmas gift on December 22, when the flooded will have to pay taxes. I don't know if they're gonna come and ask you for the money. These are not slogans, but our sad condition. So, wanting is power. We will not vote on the majority motion for a resolution, but you can vote on our proposals, which are very important for the country. We'll be there. The numbers can be there, at least for a while. It's true: we lose a few pieces, we have some defections, but you risk arresting almost all of you, Remember that. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Senator Favero's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u65	[[Extended applause from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Dear colleagues (I also say this to my friends and all the others), let us return to the Chamber, we are not in the stadium. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I'm saying this for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u66	Senator, make your speech, the Presidency will take care of it in the Chamber, otherwise things will get complicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u67	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, honestly, everything that is happening seems a little strange to me. I am witnessing a debate perhaps more focused on the law of stability, which we will have to discuss, than on Europe, the Italian Presidency and the European Council chaired by Italy, our President of the Council Renzi. A judgment on this, on what Europe is. We should say something about that. We will have time and opportunity to talk about our national issues in the coming days. Well, President Renzi, it does not seem to me that this semester has been the harbinger of positive things for our country, it does not seem to me that we bring home absolutely nothing, and when I say "a casa" I speak of Italy, but of our demands, which can be similar to those of many other countries of Europe, in fact I think I speak for Europe, that Europe in which I believe, that true Europe that is not only the Europe of the strong. We didn't get anything, we didn't get any derogations. What we are collecting today is a Europe in which the unemployment rate increases as in Italy; foreign policy, which we wanted at all costs, is totally blind to the events of Ukraine and therefore Russia and has led us to problems and sanctions that have damaged us first and also damaged the possible future of Italy as an energy hub. This has been the case with the current foreign policy. With it, as presided over, for a choice made by you, by a fellow countryman (even if I would have preferred, if it had been possible, to have Katainen in his place, it was just a dream, a wish), we are not there, we do not exist yet. I also come back to talk about the Maròs, who are still and continue to be abandoned and it is something that really shouts revenge. It is not possible for two of our fellow countrymen to continue to be treated with this contempt and for Europe to have nothing to say and no one to say anything. We are often too weak and this is Italy at this European Council. We are in an uncomfortable situation, there is no derogation from the 3% roof, which we cannot overtake. There is no derogation from the Stability Pact, a single rigidity imposed blindly by the strong countries. There is only the promise from Juncker of 300 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises, of which only 9 billion are available and some hope that this will serve as a flywheel for private intervention. You know that this will not be the case, unless there is a real breakthrough, for the entire European economy that is dying. It still holds only a few really rich countries, Teutonic selfishness is constantly evident, I have already spoken of a Germany that no longer makes war with tanks, but with the strong economy. You mentioned this, Mr Renzi: at other times, Italy and other European countries, aware of the difficulties of Germany, have favoured incredible public deficits, beyond the rules of the Treaties of the European Community in order to allow an overall design of German unification that was not only political but also economic. This is not happening at all to us: we continue to be blind and what do we do? We talk, we make proclamations, you also say many, many, but in fact there was not a single reply and Italy still continues to pay prices. You know very well that if European policy does not change in monetary terms, if the ECB does not become a real bank, if the ECB is not free to print money without limits as the United States has done, we do not emerge from this crisis. If we don't go beyond the limits of the Pact, we don't get out of it. In addition to this, his policies are added to the law of stability, which absolutely does not produce any kind of growth. He still insists on doing commercial operations, which can get three votes, but which certainly do not help us get out of this situation. I heard someone bragging about Operation Mare nostrum here, but in that operation we were left alone by Europe, with incredible costs, by that very Europe that, together with NATO, had led us to that tragedy in Libya and in the Arab countries, to that shocking mistake of foreign policy, whose prices were paid primarily by us, by Italy, and we continue to talk about a replacement operation. We are paying and we will pay for everything, we cannot ignore the problem of immigration. We do not accuse others of exploiting the problem, even if they do. Our people have problems. I do not say Italians yes, foreigners no, but it is not imaginable that the life of the Italian communities is changed, for everything that happens in every place. I mean what happens everywhere, from Milan to Trapani! We must take note of this, also so as not to allow us to exploit and generalize. But what do you do, Mr President-in-Office? Absolutely nothing. He talks to commercials, he talks about reforms at all costs. It seems that electoral reform will solve our country's problems. You want reforms, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but we also want them and, as far as I am concerned, I want them too. But you have a strange conception: reforms, either do as you say or do not. You can change your mind, but no one else is free to do it! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Barani]] It has a strange conception: Parliament is available and it is an annoying harp. The MEP must only vote, raise his hand or press a button, while if anyone proposes amendments or discusses, he hinders reforms and is an enemy of the country. This is unacceptable! [[Call the president back.]] I will finish now, Mr President. We are still in a parliamentary republic. I ask with my heart: the Assemblies must express themselves and have the necessary time. I understand that there is an end to excessive obstruction, but we cannot go on without arguing. You cannot imagine that everything you think is right and what others think is wrong. All this is further leading the country to disaster. I am also surprised that this way of being, this courage and this strength that it shows in Italy, is not demonstrating it in Europe as well. Unfortunately, your term of office is over. When Europe's final judgment on our accounts arrives in March, you will no longer be President: I am referring to the role of President of the Council of the European Union. That is the real and true fact and that is why we do not share your semester, the action that is still taking place in Europe as a whole and what you have done in Europe over the past six months. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u70	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of Resolution No 2, in support of the action being taken in Europe by the Government chaired by Matteo Renzi and in this statement I would like briefly to refer to the reasons for our vote. Already in his speech, the President of the Council recalled the complex and difficult phase to face in Europe, marked by a weakness of the economy, by many serious political and social crises of the countries in the European neighbourhood, by an increase in euroscepticism and nationalism. It is quite clear that the main voice of this distrust that is spreading is the worsening living conditions, which has involved millions of European citizens in recent years and which has pushed more than 26 million of these citizens towards unemployment to date. All the more so because in Europe there is a future of long-term stagnation, with the risk of falling into a deflation trap, which would be particularly serious for our country. In the face of these difficulties there are two reactions, in some way extreme, but both demagogic: there are those who evoke the exit from the euro and there are those who preach to break the budgetary constraints, to revive the economy. They're two roads that can't be crossed. With regard to the first road, it would take at least two generations to pay the costs of exiting the euro; while those who evoke in some way the possibility of returning to spend without constraints, are evoke nothing more than the fact of bringing Italy back to the eye of the cyclone of international financial markets. The case of Greece confirms this, because what is happening in that country is only the first symptom of profound changes that put at risk the very existence of the eurozone. In fact, the way forward is not to get out of the euro: it is to get out of the deeply wrong policies that have been carried out so far. This means, therefore, rejecting the thesis of those who claim that things are not so bad, that some marginal adjustments can be made. It's not like that at all. We have moved from a two-speed Europe to a two-slow Europe, and the top priority is, therefore, to return to growth. That is why we need to mark a deep discontinuity in the strategies and policies that have been carried out so far. The diagnosis is, today, somewhat shared at European and also international level. We need to move on three fronts: an unconventional monetary policy, also through the purchase of public bonds, to which we must associate an expansive fiscal policy of the euro area, which is based on an investment plan at European level and, thirdly, continue to strengthen the structural reform processes of individual countries. Now, from this point of view, the affirmation of the need for such discontinuity was at the heart of the Italian Presidency, during which the need for both internal reforms, always in compliance with budgetary rules, and for a new course of EU policies was called for. Of course, it's still a rugged road and all uphill, we know that very well. We know that because there are countries, with Germany in mind, that do not want the European Central Bank to move on to unconventional monetary policies, because in some way they fear that this will be a brake on reform policies in the most indebted countries. And at the same time, even on the investment front - it has already been said - the Juncker plan, with its 315 billion virtual investments, but actually based on only 21 billion real, can be a first step, an indication of direction of march, but it is certainly not the shock necessary for the euro area. However, we must continue to work, as our Government has done to date, for Europe to move forward on these three fronts. Above all, we must reiterate the priority of growth in Europe driven by investment in strategic areas. These investments, however, will require additional resources; in some way it is necessary for individual countries to put their own resources outside the Stability Pact. Otherwise the Juncker project can remain an empty box, and we don't want that for sure. From this point of view, there are today proposals for projects that can be financed in excess of EUR 1,000 billion. It is then possible, with contributions from the Member States, that a large part of these projects can be started quickly. These contributions can then, in turn, collect other resources. We must continue to demand that these resources which will come from the countries may not be counted for the purposes of the deficit-debt relationship. For our country and for our economy it is vital, because we have already set up a new strategy of economic policy, in which we are redefining the objectives of the function of economic policy in order to revive growth and employment. We have discussed and are adopting a law of stability which goes in this direction and pursues these objectives. The Commission has, for the moment, accepted the line of our Government, namely that public finances can be consolidated by focusing on boosting growth and accelerating the implementation of economic reforms; but, of course, the debate will continue and from here to March and the appointment of that month will be decisive. We do not want to break the rules of Europe: we want to redefine an interpretation of these rules, so that their respect means potential for growth for individual countries that do so and for the euro area as a whole. As the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out, of course, it is not only economic policy that Europe's challenges are complex, but also in terms of foreign and security policy. From this point of view, there is a need to ensure that the 28 countries do not face these challenges in a scattered order, but avoid divisions and weaknesses. Let me conclude by saying that the biggest problem remains the mutual distrust that exists in Europe today. It is indeed necessary to affirm a shared view of the economic situation and, above all, to converge on the ways out of it. However, we must be quick, because there is a risk of nationalistic drift in Europe from mutual distrust. In fact, it is a serious threat, which our country wants to avert and will do everything to avert. Many of these points will come to the comb at the European Council on Thursday. This will be a very difficult debate. We reaffirm to the Government and to the President-in-Office of the Council our full support and we sincerely wish him every success. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u71	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Susta and Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot of Resolution No. 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concludes the discussion on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 18 and 19 December 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u72	Colleagues, I address a greeting to a representation of students of the Istituto Stato Professione (Professional State Institute), Filippo Corridoni, Corridonia, in the province of Macerata, who is attending our work, and to a delegation of advisers of the ANCI Sicilia present here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u75	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last 5 November, during the debate in this House on the shameful decree-law so-called unblocking Italy, some of my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement Group were recalled. Afterwards, I and some of my colleagues were suspended from the work of the House; I myself was prevented for even ten sessions (i.e. for more than three weeks) from participating in this House simply because I defended the territory from the assault of oil and cement lobbying, from the false reclamations and the unnecessary additional major works such as the SNAM pipeline and oil crops (as you defined them), which, in addition to damaging the territories and seriously endangering the health of the citizens, will plunge the country into new judicial scandals and waste of public money. During the parliamentary work we had repeatedly highlighted the danger of unblocking Italy and its absolutely undemocratic approach. In these weeks the citizens, in the complete silence of the media and national televisions, are organizing banquets, meetings, conferences and numerous protests to inform about the terrible consequences that unlocks Italy will produce on our country. The alarm we launched was therefore well founded and still is. That is why our Group, on 5 November, asked, in accordance with Rules 96 and 99 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, not to vote on the articles. Following the discussion, however, the vote on the issue was prevented by passing the floor to Minister Boschi for the announcement of yet another question of confidence put by the Government on the whole measure. In the previous parliamentary term of the Rules of Procedure, questions other than the question of trust were first voted on, if they were raised earlier. It was, therefore, a decision which was disrespectful of the Rules of Procedure, whose strict and strict application is clearly not and equally necessary for all the members of this Senate. That's why we went down to try to stop the abuse of the vote of confidence... president. Your time limit has expired, Senator Blundo. BLUNDO (M5S). ...without allowing the Assembly to express its views freely on the desirability of voting on the Rules of Procedure. Well, today, when I returned, after ten days of suspension, I was able to verify once again in this House that the conduct of the proceedings of the Chamber is not carried out in compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, with acts of contempt against the opposition, ignoring the requests to intervene on the order of business to communicate the non-activation... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u76	Time's up. You have already been given more time than the time allocated to this type of intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u79	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, it is with a sense of horror and anger that I am going to make this speech, ladies and gentlemen, I express my condolences for the more than 130 children, innocent victims in Pakistan, and the two innocent victims of the recent events in Sydney. Both Australia and Pakistan are in my constituency. It was an unimaginable shock for me to feel that in my adoptive city, about a hundred meters from the place where my son works, in a cafe, where I have often been and where many of my friends go every day, an insane fool has put so many innocent lives at risk. There are no justifications of any kind. Fortunately, it was an individual and isolated case. It must be said, however, that this gesture must also be seen as the consequence of a campaign of violence that has long been promoting fundamentalist and criminal groups in the world. In Pakistan and Sydney they demonstrated their most violent terror. Despite the facts of Sydney and Peshawar, despite the campaign of violence they are inspired by, we must not be afraid: life continues and must continue. We must do everything we can to combat extremism and violence around the world. Our thoughts go to Pakistani children forced to watch their teacher burn alive and their comrades fall victim to murderous violence. Our thoughts go to the people who for over seventeen hours have experienced a nightmare in Sydney's coffee that no one can imagine, and to the families of over 130 child victims in Pakistan. Our thoughts also go to the families of the two innocent victims. Their pain is enormous and there are no words that can console this pain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u82	DE PIN (Mixed). Mr President, on the subject of Europe, I wanted to say this: yesterday Juliet Church, a well-known journalist and a former European Member of Parliament, was arrested in Tallinn, the capital of Estonia. After remaining in prison for a few hours, he was informed of an expulsion order from the country. There are no criminal or civil charges against him. Juliet Church did not kill, steal or commit a crime against the assets of some European state. His grave fault is that he went to Estonia to hold a conference entitled: Is Russia the enemy of Europe? It was, among other things, a preventive arrest as a Church was taken from its hotel just arrived in the Baltic country, without even having time to attend the conference. I do not go into the matter of whether Russia should be considered our enemy. I would just like to consider that public opinion is afraid of the escalation that is taking place against Russia because the media are constantly trying to create a cold war climate. The opportunity for dialogue with Russia is not a bizarre idea. It is, on the other hand, shared by many people. I am referring, among many others, to the former Presidents of the Roman Council, Mr Prodi and Mr Silvio Berlusconi, and to the former Chancellors, Mr Schmidt, Mr Kohl and Mr Schroeder, to the former French Foreign Minister, Mr de Villepin. In any case, as I said, it does not matter now what the matter is, what is important is that what happened in Estonia is an unacceptable attack on freedom of thought, an undemocratic gesture worthy of totalitarian regimes and not of those who, as part of the European Union, should make freedom of expression the real pillar of its identity. I want to know if - I hope so - the Italian Government has already sent the strongest protests to the Estonian Government demanding the immediate withdrawal of the measure. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u85	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I wanted to urge the government - I know it is - to intervene to solve a problem that concerns 25,000 insurance agents and their supplementary pension fund, which last year had an international recognition to be one of the best funds in the world. Last year it closed with 30 or 40 million assets, but by law it must rebalance becoming a closed fund. Rightly the agents will play their part in consolidating the fund (and it will be a sacrifice, because they have to do it immediately), but I ask that the insurance companies also do their part, because otherwise 25,000 people who have made payments to secure a safer old age would find themselves with a bottom-up fund and that would risk being closed, with a nocument for everyone and especially for the credibility of the system. I therefore still urge the Government to intervene because in this case it is not a question of raising public funds, but of ensuring that the parties in a fair way save an effective instrument of private savings and supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-366.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 18 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.57 p.m.
