ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1417.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u5	Mr President, I should like to add a particular point. Last night we broke up saying that we were waiting for the opinions of the Budget Commission on the four reworded amendments, and I do not know if they have come.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u6	They have come and are in distribution. The only thing I would propose for the time being to put aside, pending your assessment, is Amendment 1.9, on which the opinion of the 5th Commission is conditional upon a reformulation. We can proceed with the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u7	We are able to express opinions on others. With regard to amendment 1.1, the opinion is opposed, on the basis of what was said and explained extensively yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u8	You should give your opinion on Amendment 1.8, which I believe is in favour, because it becomes a sub-amendment to Amendment 1.2 (text 3). It is an amendment tabled by the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u9	CASSON, Rapporteur. On Amendment 1.8, the opinion is in favour, as well as on Amendment 1.2 (text 3); this is the text that we sent to the Budget Commission yesterday. Amendment 1.5 (text 2) has been withdrawn, as has amendment 1.6, since it is absorbed by amendment 1.2 (text 3). On Amendment 1.9, as amended by the Commission's statement on the budget, the opinion is in favour, as well as on Amendments 1.10 and 1.11 (text 3). Instead, the authors are invited to withdraw amendment 1.13, as the content of this amendment is absorbed, in particular by amendment 1.2 (text 3), as well as amendment 1.9, in the new wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u10	The opinion is in favour of Amendments Nos 1.14 and 1.15 (text 2), while the authors are invited to withdraw Amendment No 1.16. With regard to amendment 1.19, a call for withdrawal is being made, as it seems unrealistic to limit the time allowed for the adaptation of structures to 90 days. On Amendment 1,100, the authors are also invited to withdraw, since Amendment 1,14 already provides for these cases. The opinion is in favour of amendment 1.20 (text 2), while amendment 1.21 calls for withdrawal or, if necessary, for an agenda. Finally, the opinion was in favour of amendment 1,350 and agendas G1,100, G1,101 and G1,102 and opposed to the agenda G1,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u11	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs with regard to the amendments. We want to emphasise Amendment 1.15 in a more sticky way. In this amendment - as we agreed - if we remove the word 'definative' after the words 'quota security measures', the provision will apply for both the provisional and the definitive measure. As a representative of the Government, I would like to stress the importance of this amendment and thank the rapporteurs for the reformulation. For the first time, in fact, the question, debated for years in jurisprudence together with the world of medicine, of the unlimited duration of the security measure in psychiatric judicial hospitals is resolved. The Constitutional Court had repeatedly said that this provision was constitutional, and that therefore there were no problems of illegality, there being an obligation for the judge, every six months, to verify the social danger of the subject. Amendment 1.15 (text 2), tabled by Senators Manconi and Lo Giudice and done precisely by the speakers with the rewording on which the Government expresses with conviction a favorable opinion, puts an end to this debate and allows, with the exclusion of crimes punished with life imprisonment, to maintain, every six months, the verification of the judge in relation to social danger but, at the same time, puts an end to the unlimited duration of such measure anchoring instead to the duration of the maximum edittal forecast according to the crime committed. This really is a step forward. In fact, at the moment when the Government was forced to extend the closure of the OPGs for a year, it adheres with conviction to this approach, because it believes in the measure adopted in the previous years; the maximum is therefore the commitment of the Government not to spend too much time, using all the year to monitor the situation and verify that the Regions fulfill their commitments and organize themselves to start the so-called REMS. For the rest, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. As far as the agenda is concerned, G1.101, the Government is fully in agreement, precisely because it is committed to maintaining the one-year deadline. On the other hand, with regard to the agenda G1.102, the Government is returning to the House, as the assessment of social danger must remain with the judicial authority. Therefore, a committee is well placed, but within the limits and respect of the powers conferred by the rules on the judicial authority. On the agenda, Mr G1.103, the Government is also returning to the Chamber. The spirit of this act of direction, as already stated in the Commission, is positive, but it must be stressed that the closure of the OPGs does not mean the removal of the security measure, because it remains, but it will no longer apply to the OPGs but to the residences, which will therefore be regional structures in which the judge will be able to apply the security measures. It will therefore affect the way in which the measures are implemented, and in particular the structure in which they are applied, which will no longer be a judicial psychiatric hospital but the so-called residence for the implementation of the security measure. That is what I wanted to stress. For the rest, the opinion is in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u14	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to clarify text 1 and text 2 of amendment 1.15. I recall that in the original amendment 1.15 signed by Senators Manconi and Lo Giudice, there was talk of definitive prison security measures. In yesterday afternoon's sitting, we integrated this definition, talking about temporary or definitive detention measures, because these are the two definitions and the two most correct areas of the case. It is not very different to talk about provisional and definitive security measures, but we believe that it is more correct, in order to limit interpretations that may be of any kind, to specify that we refer to provisional or definitive prison security measures, as the text of the last draft did. I would therefore point this out to the Government, which perhaps had the penultimate text of the amendment. If the Government agrees, I think we could keep the words 'temporary or definitive detention measures'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u15	The Presidency shall have the text stating either provisional or definitive. It does not seem to me to change much, and therefore it is understood that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u18	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u19	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.51 p.m. and resumed at 10.01 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I take advantage of the presence of President Azzollini to have some information on the rewording of amendment 1.9 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u20	Mr President, Amendment 1.9 (text 2) has been amended and has been tabled by the rapporteurs in a new wording (text 3), which is different from yesterday's text, and which is characterized by the adoption of the text of an existing rule with greater assertivity, given by the 45-day deadline. On the part of the Budget Commission there is a dry void; I can say that we are not wrong (rarely it happens), because it was a covered rule and with the valuable contribution of Senator Dirindin has become in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u21	Senator Azzollini, the public debt will always give you credit! We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u24	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I find the negative opinion on Amendment 1.1 incomprehensible, because the deletion of point (b) of Article 1 (1) as proposed is aimed at remedying a contradiction. On the one hand, there is talk of overcoming psychiatric hospitals and, on the other hand, there are rules that affect the way in which they are entered, already provided for in the current legislation. So, at the same time, we have a confession of impotence with regard to overcoming psychiatric hospitals and a regulatory contradiction. Mr President, in the Commission, the Government had spoken of referring to this situation on an agenda, because there is indeed this contradiction. I then tried to really prepare an agenda, although technically unlikely, since it was a deletion, with the result that the Government returned to the House and the rapporteur gave a negative opinion. Someone will have to explain to me if we want to reduce this measure, so delicate because it concerns the lives of weak and sick people, to an electoral spot. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u25	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators Alberti Casellati and Caliendo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2 (text 3/1), already Amendment 1.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of sub-amendment 1.2 (text 3/1) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.2 (text 3), in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 (text 3) tabled by the rapporteurs in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.5 (text 2) and 1.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9 (text 3). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.9 (text 3) tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.11 (text 3). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.11 (text 3) tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. On Amendment 1.13 a call for withdrawal was made. I ask Senator Lo Giudice if he accepts that invitation. THE COURT (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. A call for withdrawal was made on Amendment 1.16. I ask the first signatory, Senator Mussini, if you accept this invitation. MUSSINI (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 1.17 and 1.18 are inadmissible. An invitation to withdraw was made on Amendment No 1.19. I ask the first signatory, Senator Mussini, if you accept this invitation. MUSSINI (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A call for withdrawal was made on Amendment 1,100. I ask the first signatory, Senator Petraglia, if you accept this invitation. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u28	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to explain why the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be against this amendment. The reason is that with it we give place to yet another wheelchair. We operate with it a table for overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals, which means that the Regions and the State are unable to provide for this, after as many as three referrals. It's another wheelchair! I wonder: has no one thought that there is a substitute power of the State in the face of the inertia of the Regions, since we have reached the third postponement? It is true that this table does not involve charges, because that is the way it is written. However, when you do not want to make a decision, then, as always, the committees are set up. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u29	Senator Dalla Zuanna, I invite you to comment on this matter. I believe, in fact, that the term "table" can stimulate reflection precisely in order to find a different term; otherwise one thinks of the Ikea...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u30	Mr President, beyond the term 'table', the problem is that, despite all the measures taken in the past, unfortunately this issue is dealt with in the parliamentary classrooms, on the occasion of the extensions, but then it is seen that, in fact, in the regions, at the Ministry and also in the hospitals of this problem there is little concern. The attempt made with this amendment is to maintain greater parliamentary control over this process. So I think it is worth maintaining this amendment. In the case, we can rewrite the word "Table" with the initial tiny, but the idea is precisely to maintain parliamentary control over the issue, because it is essential to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u31	Therefore, with this rewriting of the term "table" with the lower case (because with the capital T becomes not a subject in the general sense, but an institutional subject), we move to the vote of amendment 1.20 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.20 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.21 calls for it to be withdrawn and turned into an agenda. If not, the opinion is against it. I ask the first signatory, Senator Romani Maurizio, if he accepts this invitation. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the representative of the Government and the rapporteur to comment on the agenda for G1.21.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u32	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u33	Mr President, the rapporteur confirms his favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u34	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.21 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,350. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,350 tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 and G1,101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1417 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1.103 tabled by Senators Alberti Casellati and Caliendo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1417
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u37	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, fellow senators, once again we repent of the need for a decree-law aimed at completing the process of overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals which contains the extension, from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015, for the desired definitive overcoming of the OPGs with new health facilities. But a premise is fundamental. Persons who have ceased to be socially dangerous must be without delay discharged and taken over by the mental health departments on the territory. Already in several acts of direction from 2008 to 2012 it was expected that the Regions would adopt a programming and that the mental health departments would rely on the taking charge of all people with mental disorders, prisoners or internees. On this subject, as is clear, rights often conflicting: on the one hand the fundamental rights of each person, on the other the right of the community to security. Precisely in order to give a complete response, for several years the objective of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals has been pursued, in order to allow sick people to be treated by adequate people and structures. So, why a further extension to 1 April 2015? Because you are not yet ready to welcome the current and future guests of psychiatric judicial hospitals in residences for the execution of security measures (EMS), in housing communities and mental health departments. In other words, no Region has completed the REMS, the housing communities are few and almost completely absent in large areas of the national territory; little or insufficient is the full assumption of skills by the ASL through the mental health departments. In view of these shortcomings and the subsequent requests for extension, one cannot help but feel a sense of frustration and feeling impotence. In psychiatric judicial hospitals, people to whom the judge has continued to extend imprisonment for years continue to be admitted, often beyond the time of punishment for the crime committed, due to lack of personalized or territorial treatment paths that are alternative. In addition, there are also people who spend relatively short time in the OPG, mostly awaiting judgment. The extension we are debating today essentially also meets the following requirements: to empty the OPGs as soon as possible by preventing temporary admissions; to facilitate the discharge of the current admissions who do not present social danger; to avoid the transformation - I believe this is a very important and delicate aspect - of the REMS into psychiatric judicial hospitals. Therefore, with the amended conversion of this decree-law, on the one hand it helps to accelerate the emptying and the overcoming of the OPGs, on the other it favors a procedure that obviously does not increase the social danger. It is clear that a territorial experience such as that of the judicial psychiatric hospital in Aversa, which is recognized as a truly titanic effort to ensure that the work is always respectful - as it is - of the admitted, cannot fail to make us emphasize that the key to the problem lies in a strong community deficit. It is no coincidence that national and regional health plans, speaking of mental illness, use the word "community" until they define disciplinary approaches to community "psychiatry," "community "mental health" or forms of intervention that exceed the specialized one of ad hoc services, reaching the point of talking about "taking charge of community ", an expression that indicates the consultation of public, private, family and third sector to formulate therapeutic plans. For the above reasons and for the requirements dictated by the above, the Per l'Italia Group announces a favourable vote on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u40	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on has already been evaluated by this House less than a year ago. The speeches made at yesterday's sitting under general discussion brought the terms of the draft law to a very good conclusion. We certainly agree, because this measure has the great merit of reviewing and improving the conditions of the difficult prisoners, that is, of the people who have committed crimes but who have been recognized as mentally ill, and who have therefore been destined for particular structures, the OPGs, i.e. psychiatric judicial hospitals. I would remind you that the OPGs have been the subject of a well-known parliamentary investigation, which has highlighted the great structural limitations and from which there have been dubious episodes regarding respect for the dignity and the right to health of the persons admitted. The measure in the vote also indicates to the regions actions for the development of psychiatric services in the territory: I believe that this is another important aspect to stress. Therefore, we still have our positive opinion today on the review and the transition to the National Health Service of the protection of these people, especially those who are not considered more dangerous to society. The critical aspect, moreover already highlighted, is that we are going to endorse yet another extension of a year of the definitive closure of the OPGs by the Regions and the creation of suitable alternative structures within the framework of the organization of the National Health Service. This extension highlights the obvious difficulty that the regions and local authorities have in dealing with new structural and organisational reforms and interventions during this particular period. Personally, as I said a few months ago, I have great doubts as to whether the objective can be achieved. It would have been better to agree directly with the individual regions a real timetable, which corresponds to the actual possibilities for local authorities to implement concrete actions. Since, however, so is the provision, it will not be us to hinder this yet another attempt that this time we hope to go into port and be realized. I can think of the old adage, there aren't two without three, but let's hope that's not the case. Therefore, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, I am voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u43	Barani (GAL). Mr President, as the LAG Group, we are very critical of this measure, because we have reached the third extension, which means that in the past it has been wrong. It was wrong when - by now it is LaPalissian, everyone knows, it must be admitted - in 2001, with the modification of Title V, we did the Regions, or rather, you did the Regions. You did it forcefully, with a majority of just four votes. This original sin is affecting everything. There is no point in saying - as some colleagues constantly say - that we have regions that legislate in a heterogeneous way, in a different way from each other, that do not respect and do not respond to the laws that this Parliament approves and that the President of the Republic promulgates. Why? Because those who made that change created disorder and anarchy, such as disorder and anarchy, create themselves in not accepting, by making these extensions, the contribution that comes from Groups perhaps more objective in judging a decree-law that does not fall in love and that seeks to carry forward what is necessary to guarantee the rights and quality of life of patients, prevent their compulsion and promote their care. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, when a decree-law requires that the centre of everything be the judge, who must check whether instead of hospitalization in a psychiatric judicial hospital, a different measure of security provided for by the law can be adopted in relation to the infirm mind, and we do not have the courage to put the doctor at the centre of this assessment, we are certainly not doing the interests of the quality of life of the patient. Even an agenda has not been accepted, on which the government has returned to the Chamber in a dignified manner, because of this reputation for summary justiceism that is also present in these small decree-laws. I am referring to the agenda G1.103, signed by Senators Alberti Casalati and Caliendo, with whom it was only called upon to remedy a logical antinomy which risks marking a setback in the process of adapting structures and institutions to meet the condition of social danger of the infirm. In fact, there are also the interests of the citizens to be guaranteed, in addition to those of the mentally ill criminal patients. The agenda also invited the Government to assess the need to carry out the complex process of innovation of the institutions in which prison security measures for the mentally ill are carried out with consistency and without incongruity of the system. You rejected it with your vote, which is a heavy vote and it is a vote that shows that you do not love your citizens, but you only love the mistakes you make and do not recognize that there are those who may know more about it than you do and try to limit the damage you are doing. I still remind you of Title V: at that time we told you and now all Italians are paying for it. That is why I believe that, already at the time of Law No 180 of 1978 (the so-called Basaglia Act), everything should have been taken over by the National Health System; already 36 years ago. Now we've come to extensions on extensions, but the Regions don't give a damn about taking these people in charge. Therefore, the replacement power of the Ministry must be there; we invited you to experience it to the full and you did not want to do it. You are deaf and blind in the face of these realities, in which we must combine, by putting at the centre the doctor, the rights and quality of life of the patient and, of course, the safety measures against the population. Watch that mental illness is not cured by law: mental illness is treated with hospitals, research and professionals capable and equipped, which are certainly not the judges, but the doctors. We have also tried to make a contribution with an amendment, always signed by Senators Alberti Casellati and Caliendo, for the deletion of point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. It was a big contribution we were making. You know that you are wrong, that it is a mistake to put it in the decree-law, yet continue in error. We cannot understand the reason for your perseverance. To err is human, as you are doing, but to persevere is diabolical. That is why we will vote strongly against it, because we do not want to be responsible for the condition in which you continue to leave the people of the OPG who, I remind you, are still hundreds. You know perfectly well that you are unable in these six months to act as a substitute for equipment and facilities. You will never do it and in a year you will bring us another decree and we will resent saying that the President of the Republic is corrupted in signing it, but he will continue to sign it. You must try to listen to those in this field who know more than you, that it is us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u46	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about this difficult and very delicate problem of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. It is a difficult problem because, as was also seen from the wording of the amendments and from the report made by the two rapporteurs, this is a very complex matter. It is from the regulatory point of view, but it is even more so from the human point of view. However, we in the North League cannot fail to stress another difficult aspect, as the rapporteur, Mr Casson, also said. I am referring to the contemplation between the opposing demands, on the one hand, to provide for the care of people who are mentally handicapped for an illness and, on the other hand, to ensure the protection of the community because they are people who, due to their illness or their inclination, have unfortunately been criminalized. We sadly remember the episode of the now sadly known Kabobo, a person suffering from mental difficulties that caused the death of people in an absolutely incomprehensible way. We recognize that this is a sick person, but we put ourselves in the perspective of the people who are offended and of those who suffer even serious crimes. For this reason, our perplexities and considerations lead us to ask ourselves: with the overcoming of judicial psychiatric hospitals, will we be able to ensure the appropriate custody to prevent these people from committing further crimes? Precisely because of their mental condition there is probably also the difficulty of social recovery and repentance. It's a disease problem. It is a disease that must be cured and that is sometimes also difficult to treat. On the other hand, we put ourselves in the position of those who believe that we need to think about how we can guarantee safety to the community and prevent these people unfortunately from committing further crimes. The bill of conversion of the decree-law in question addresses a typical problem of Italy, i.e. the prediction of certain terms and the need to think of extensions. From this point of view, too, we are aware of the need for such an extension (because it is necessary to speak of necessity), as the structures necessary to ensure the care and care of these people have not yet been prepared, but at the same time we must ask ourselves why we should find ourselves, as is often the case in Italy, talking about an extension. As often happens in this country, in fact, regulations, obligations and forecasts are provided (which we create not only, because then there are ministerial decrees and whatever else) so complex and cumbersome to make its application difficult. This has happened in many areas, because the objective can be as shared as possible, but in practice there is the difficulty of achieving the necessary structures to achieve it. If we talk to our regions, we can also call them defaulting, but a subject is defaulting when it is also his fault if he has not provided. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are simply saying that we are in favour of the extension, but we believe that all the instruments, all the remedies and all the structures necessary for it to be done must be prepared. The individual people who have personally and professionally followed the beginning of these new structures have immediately noticed technical problems, of interpretation and for that reason we voted in favour of amendment 1.20 (text 2), which provides for the establishment of a table: the latter for us must be an opportunity for comparison also between the Regions and Rome, where problems and criticalities can be highlighted in order to be able to overcome them. In our view, we should not impose an obligation on the regions; let us just say that the extension is fine, but it should be the last; above all, we should allow the regions to be able to implement these structures. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the senators Dalla Zuanna and De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u49	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would say that the vote on this measure is almost obligatory, because, as has been said in so many speeches yesterday and today, there is no alternative. The many speeches in this debate have explained very well what judicial psychiatric hospitals are. Indeed, we could say that these two days are almost the same as what we did exactly a year ago in this House. At that time we were all outraged about the extension to 2014 that was proposed to us by the government, but we were in a particular phase: the elections had just been held, a new government had not yet been appointed, we were in the transition phase of the government of technicians. The commitments were many then and in this year I must say that the Senate, in particular the Health and Health Commission, has continued to maintain those commitments with activities of monitoring, verification, control, meeting with the Regions, with the Government, with the judicial and penitentiary administration, but nothing else turns out has been done. Obviously, we must note that not all the players involved in this affair are in the same way. Today we must take very clearly note of a failure, because this umpteenth extension is clearly a failure for the action of the Government and the Regions, as well as for the role that the latter must play. Then we have to ask ourselves some questions: what has really been done to prevent this year from reaching a new extension? The many speeches in this debate have made this clear: little, very little. Not only are the OPGs still open, but of the 300 internees that the Marino Commission had established as of immediate dimissibility some are still there (as is the case of the internship of the OPG of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto that is since 1996 for having robbed 7,000 lire with a hand in the pocket simulating a weapon) or have been replaced with other internees, like the articles of many chronicles of the local newspapers these days are reporting. So there is a doubt, and we would like to ask this House and the Government a question: are we really sure that the entire judicial, penitentiary, health system, the mental health system, the administrative system, the state system, which has been involved for years in this debate, is really convinced of the importance of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals? Overcoming the OPGs means overcoming the logic of segregation, without, of course, weakening the element of custody, safety and care, where all three are necessary and must be kept together. For example, for the new internees there could be customized plans of insertion into the mental health departments of the territories, and we have not seen this either. We express concerns about the work and projects presented by the Regions, which have proposed plans for the construction of the new structures, the famous REMS we have heard about, because the number of beds planned is higher than the current presences in OPG. We would not like to be faced with new structures, certainly renewed and well maintained, but with the same methods of care and custody in the name of the principle that everything changes so that everything remains the same. It would be appropriate - and the amendments adopted today clearly ask - to invite the regions to review the proposals, reducing the number of beds and structures, as is the important amendment aimed at finalising public funding for public structures alone. It is clear that the simplest solution in this situation is internment, but the objective of all of us obviously wants to be something else. We are concerned because many projects submitted by the Regions have planned implementation times for the next thirty-six months. What does all this mean? We would not like to be faced with an extension due to inertia until 2017. The Government, the two Ministries, therefore, exercise their functions of planning and control. We really begin the process of dimissibility where there are conditions, investing resources in the mental health departments in the territory, so that they can be able to take charge of the inmates in OPG and the confined in prison. Each of us knows of course the situation of the mental health departments of our territories, and even in the regions where for years we have been working for a strengthening of the territorial responsibility the difficulties are evident. So today we tell everyone to be careful: further delays, further extensions would only be to be read as a lack of political will. With one year's delay, penalties are foreseen for defaulting regions. We had asked for this last year and we say it today: it would have been better to foresee real cuts in transfers to the regions that were not in compliance with the National Health Fund. The experience of closing the handles, after the law of May 13, 1978, n. 180, tells a story of resistance of the entire system, which ended only after the financing was cut. Today, then, all we have to do is make an act. We hope that, with the amendments adopted, this year will not pass in vain, because there are so many things to do. It was good to have approved amendment 1.15 (text 2) which states that the security measure cannot last longer than the edittal penalty for the same crime, but it addresses the problem of social danger, because the ability to commit crimes completely escapes a scientific definition, and this is always the case with forensic psychiatrists and magistrates. This is a matter that needs to be dealt with quickly. And above all, we use this year to verify that the Regions are really active in taking charge through the training of the operators, in order to really create therapeutic-rehabilitative programs towards the people subjected to safety measures, placing at the center the right of the patients to care and rehabilitation, exactly the same as that of every other citizen and user afferent to the mental health services. If nothing is done, if the government gives up its role, it will really take a lot of courage to request further extensions. And in that case, unlike today's vote in favour, we in the Left Ecology and Freedom and the whole Mixed Group will no longer agree, because a further extension will be unacceptable. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and the Senators Mastrangeli and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u52	AELLO (NCD). Mr President, yesterday we, like the New Right Centre, had the opportunity to express our regret at this further extension during the general debate. Today we announce our vote in favour of the measure because we understand that the subject has been and is very rough. So, apart from that, we are in favour of the measure, partly because, with the adoption of some amendments, the extension is still substantial, it is enriched with content and introduces certain rules that provide for alternative measures to measures that are often socially useless or even excluded. However, Mr President, in this year of time the real challenge is what to do right away. Among other things, we would like to recall the judgments of the Constitutional Court of 2003 and 2004, in which the Court itself declared the unconstitutionality of the non-application of alternative measures to psychiatric judicial hospitals - I quote the Court - in order to ensure adequate care for the infirm, noting that hospitalization in psychiatric judicial hospitals constitutes a serious inequality of treatment compared to health reform. The judges, therefore, point out that internment is harmful to everyone and that psychiatric treatment should take place in the territorial area. The real challenge, then, is what to do right away. Well, Mr President, time could already be used from an organizational point of view, since the Ministries have the possibility of activating substitute powers, perhaps with guidelines and guidelines for the regions. I remember, among other things, that a couple of years ago resources had already been allocated to the regions to provide for the substance. Even the Italian Society of Psychiatry dictates the rules, more than anything else of the addresses, that could represent a starting point for a reorganization of the system immediately. We could - for example - create ad hoc sections, an institute of punishment in each region, in order to recover the subjects hosted in the judicial hospitals, which, in this way, could be closed immediately; or we could continue with the resignation of patients still interned, increasing the outpatient psychiatric assistance in the prisons, so as to early start the treatments necessary to ensure that the mentally ill criminals do not even have to transit today in the OPGs and maybe tomorrow in the new REMS; or the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals could also be planned every six to 12 months, starting now, always with the intervention of the substitute powers of the competent ministries, completing the trial in a time of 3-5 years, also in relation to the actual residual needs of the prison circuit. The extra-detentional routes of all prisoners could be encouraged to reduce overcrowding in prisons and to prevent that in psychiatric sections of prison institutions and also in future REMS. The proposals for reform of the penal code, such as the deletion of the concept of social danger and its replacement with that of the need for treatment, could be taken up again, Mr President, only for patients who are recognised as a total defect of mind. That is why we must take up absolutely the concept of the consideration of people who are socially dangerous to mental illness. We would like, that is, to move from safety measures to safety of care - this is the important step, this is the real challenge - by imagining bound paths that maintain the possibility of making the aspect of custody less and less relevant for increasing the awareness of the patient's disease. All this therefore in order to aim to strengthen the care path - as has been widely mentioned and emphasized by many fellow senators - by immediately limiting the entrances into the structures and using alternative measures, with the taking charge by the territorial services. All this can also be done by inducing, through the guidelines, the Regions to begin to adapt. In short, we must think absolutely about strategies that allow us to shift the theme on the realization of new structures and, therefore, on additional cost centers, imagining to apply health and social health strategies that allow once and for all to organize the need for treatment qualitatively, understood as a pre-eminent model of the therapeutic aspect compared to the detention one. Gentlemen Undersecretaries, social danger, as far as we are concerned, is not a scientific concept. Then, those who imagine organizational aspects that can once and for all shift the theme on the taking charge of the patient, and therefore on the prominent aspects from the health point of view, know very well that psychiatry and criminology can identify risk factors that lead to violence, and may perhaps act on some of them. However, they do not have the tools to predict future behavior and therefore they cannot in any way distinguish probability from generic possibilities of putting in place new crimes. Therefore, closing judicial psychiatric hospitals is a battle of civilization, as well as a cultural battle. Medicine, and science in general, cannot make up for social needs, but it can accompany them. So we need to know whether we want to treat to protect the health of a sick person or whether we want to intervene to prevent the patient from committing new crimes. It's different. The knot can be dissolved by removing the psychiatric safety measures and replacing them with therapeutic or rehabilitative measures. This is necessary once and for all, in order to finally move from the concept of social danger to the need to treat the judicial patient clinically. We cannot and do not want to forget that the right to health care remains a dramatic vacuum to be filled. My Group will therefore vote in favour of the measure, while at the same time encouraging the Government to intervene with substitute powers, if necessary, in the hope of not having to find us here, in a year, to discuss further extensions, certifying still failures or even failures. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Dalla Zuanna and De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u55	SIMONI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today in an explanation of vote for a measure that is almost the photocopy of the extension decree adopted in March 2013, when, as soon as we entered the institutions, we had to deal with the sensitive issue of overcoming the OPGs. I say "almost" photocopy, because in that decree, which we were forced to convert, there was also the inauspicious provision on the Stamina case as proof of how, often, the use of the decree of urgency leads to unholy commissions. The rules for overcoming the OPGs are necessary and desirable and the delay in their application is becoming unbearable. Here in the Senate, on March 27, we attended a conference in which various authorities intervened, from medical experts in the field to our former colleague, and now mayor of Rome, Ignazio Marino. At that conference it was reiterated once again that psychiatric judicial hospitals are real concentration camps or - as a delegation of the Council of Europe has defined - places of torture. It has also been recalled that the existence of these structures on Italian soil has been the cause of sanctions on the part of Europe, but above all a cause of shame for our State, in the eyes of the rest of the peoples of Europe. It has been told how the so-called guests of those structures are contained in dilapidated structures, in disastrous sanitary conditions and without any medical or psychiatric assistance. It has been told how the same verses are being abandoned by the State and the institutions. It has been told how the OPGs are a black hole in which, once you enter, you stop being human. It was told about a boy who had a 7,000-lire robbery in 1992 and, after being locked up for 22 years, he is still in prison today. Then I have to say: enough with the extensions, don't take them and don't make fun of us! From the text of the bill under consideration we realize the risk that the actual deadline for closing OPGs will be shifted to 2017 and this is absolutely unacceptable. One year after the previous extension, we are going to postpone the deadline for a necessary reform and I wonder: are we really doing everything possible to implement the closure of the OPGs? At the center of everything there is the realization of the now famous REMS, of the new structures that must be built or converted by the Regions in order to accommodate the prisoners-patients. And of course in the regions, between tenders, conferences of services, health pacts, State-Regions Conferences and endless judicial appeals, the times are dilated to infinity. Once again we realize that the regions are useless wheelchairs, which often have the sole role of making a simple solution complicated. Moreover, in these two years, we have focused on the structural aspect of the problem: the only objective seems to be to build. On this subject, the 5 Star Movement has always been very critical: instead of converting structures that could be functional (disused hospitals), it is only thought of contracting the construction of new buildings, with a serious increase in costs and waste. The risk is that the disaster of the plan to reduce the prison crowd will be repeated. On 29 June 2010, the prison plan was approved by the then Berlusconi Government, which provided for the realization of 9,150 seats, for a total amount of 661 million euros. Today the funds have dropped to 450 million, but not even a brick has been placed. On the basis of this, we in the Health Commission have asked ourselves whether the problem of structures is the only one to be overcome: the answer is no! There are many aspects that are neglected, starting from the need for the uniform management of the reform, through a directing booth, up to the training of staff and the provision of support programmes. In my last speech on this subject, at the beginning of the current parliamentary term, I pointed out that in the Commission's report of inquiry into the OPGs of the previous parliamentary term there was a large shortage of specialist medical personnel within the structures: often only one doctor and two nurses, faced with hundreds of patients, and the absence of figures such as psychiatrists or psychologists, who are the essence of this sector. These aspects cannot and must not be neglected in the process of reform and overcoming the GPOs. That is why we have adopted a resolution, voted unanimously by the Commission, which seeks to rebalance the text by including specific rules on the redevelopment of mental health departments, on the training of operators and on the maximum duration of safety measures to be carried out by the REMS. In this regard, I would like to stress that our position, as a 5 Star Movement, has always been for the certainty of punishment, but not against the re-education and recovery of the prisoner, which is a fundamental principle also included in our Constitution. We want the wrong guy to pay, but we don't want to throw away the key. However, we must not deceive ourselves, because some subjects are objectively irrecoverable and unfit to return to a normal social life. And this I say from personal experience, since for many years I have served at some psychiatric health institutions. In any case, this is not a good reason to treat them like beasts. We must guarantee them the respect and decorum that belongs to human beings. We must understand that social well-being passes through the psychic well-being of our citizens. That is why it is our obligation to recover those subjects who can be helped and to guarantee the safety and decorum of those who cannot be reinserted into society, to show our citizens that the system works and that they still live in a civil state; to reassure all the desperate family members who feel abandoned and who are afraid of being helped by the State, because they fear to see their loved ones torn and to see them thrown into a black hole from which they will never re-emerge again. We must restore confidence and hope to families and, at the same time, guarantee the security of the community. Realizing a viable alternative to psychiatric judicial hospitals should not be a utopia or an annoying commitment to be postponed eternally, but a priority at the top of the list of our commitments. As at the top of the list of commitments must be the resolution of the prison problem in general, and not because we fear the fines of the Court of Strasbourg, but because our conscience tells us so. Although the considerations included in our resolution have been partially incorporated in the text under consideration, and while there are strong doubts that the Government can effectively manage this very important reform, today the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the senators Dalla Zuanna, De Biasi, Dirindin and Romani Maurizio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u58	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am very uncomfortable to say that I am abstaining from the Group of Senators of Forza Italia on this measure. Uncomfortable, because the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals is an idea that was born precisely from Forza Italia back in 2009: an idea that was then translated into a regulation, an idea that we still think is valid. Our abstention position is not contradictory, but we believe that it is not possible for such a delicate subject, which puts everyone's consciences before strong questions, which concern people with serious diseases, to be dealt with at the level of an electoral ad. Because that's what this is about. The constant postponements - we are now in the third - compared to the overcoming of the OPGs, because there are no intermediate structures, they are basically a throwaway, a manifest demonstration of impotence by the Government and Parliament. So much would be worth, for the respect of the many patients waiting for a step forward of the institutions, to declare directly a lack of will for the closure of such nineteenth-century structures. Today, we are simply deciding to release the responsibilities forward. This is a real decommitment that we would have liked to avoid and which is also characterized by some inconsistencies, both legal and practical. In this measure it is clear that there is a logical contradiction between the intention to make the definitive overcoming of the OPGs and the forecast of a regulatory change to regulate their entries: which is unacceptable for us. The risk is that, instead of making the use of psychiatric detention an extreme ratio, it will end up generating further regulatory chaos, caused by the chaotic overlap of different laws that already regulate the matter. This can only lead to differences in interpretation in the application of the law. That is why we have tried, before in the Commission and today in this House, to incorporate elements of clarity which we consider essential in order to effectively reform such an important part of our criminal legislation. It is clear that, in the absence of concrete action by all the competent institutions, the judicial authority will inevitably be forced to resort, in most cases, to new protective measures in the psychiatric hospital or in the home of care and custody. But this does not solve any of the problems associated with our current legislation: we do not close existing structures and we do not start that innovative process that can combine the care to be provided to those who are unable to understand and want, with the guarantee of social security for all citizens. If it is then thought that the planned six-monthly verifications with respect to the requirements of the Regions are sufficient to unlock a situation of almost total inertia, then it is simply carried out an exercise of pure imagination. The slownesses and inefficiencies so far demonstrated by the Regions, to which this measure grants a further 12 months of time to intervene, do not exceed if one does not give decisive hand to the monitoring and control powers. And if this does not happen properly, the State has the obligation - I repeat the obligation - to activate the substitute powers vis-à-vis the Regions, in order to avoid that they continue to lose and disperse the resources made available. Therefore, no postponement, but replacement power towards the defaulting Regions. You're such a table. That's a lot of carrots! So much for the proclaimed relief of public administration! I would like to remind you that, for the realization and the conversion of the structures, have already been overall allocated to the Regions, for the years 2012 and 2013, 180 million euros, within which it has been identified, with an invention of real creative finance, the coverage for the almost six million euros, necessary to finance the extension to 31 March 2015. But what happened to this funding so far? There was no proper study of the reason for the inertia manifested by the Regions. While in some cases the previous regulation has certainly served as a technical and cultural unpreparedness on the part of the bodies, the result of an approach linked more to repressive regiments than therapeutic, on the other hand some indeterminateities linked to the role of the new health structures for the implementation of safety measures have certainly not facilitated this path. As demonstrated by the many questions posed in recent years, there has been a lack of basic clarity also from the structural and organizational point of view, with critical design in terms of perimeter surveillance and management, social, environmental and even medical aspects. Moreover, this draft law does not solve one of the most dramatic aspects of the issue: namely the undue continuation of the permanence in such structures of some patients, even if there is no specific detention requirement due to the social danger of the person. It is the so-called "white life" that puts our country in a clear and dramatic delay compared to other European countries, and not only. As well as there are no intervention plans for strengthening territorial structures and for strengthening organic plants in mental health departments. For this reason we cannot vote in favour, despite our cultural approach - as demonstrated by the many interventions launched in recent years by the central right governments - is absolutely to overcome, immediately and in the best possible way, the current system of psychiatric detention. In the absence of a substantial rethink of the measures envisaged, it will be inevitable - I regret to say this - to proceed in a year's time with new measures to extend, perhaps indefinitely, the implementation of a reform that, so far, the political class has repeatedly announced but never implemented. For far too long many of the people involved in the effects of this intervention have been mistakenly considered invisible. If today politics has finally gained the necessary awareness to overcome an obsolete organization, inefficient and not respectful of the dignity of all citizens, it is called to do so in a serious, accomplished, decisive and effective manner. It seems to me that the road pursued goes in the opposite direction, hidden behind the mantle guilty of the inefficiency of the Regions. Responsibility, Mr President, is a concept that cannot be delegated, as has been done with the creation of carriages, of the table of overcoming or other, that clearly are not suitable to solve the problem, but only to defer it, in a useless way, to an indefinite time. This is what a good legislator cannot and must not do. That is why the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will abstain from voting. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u61	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very much in favour of the Democratic Party's vote on the measure that we are about to adopt on this day, and I am even more convinced of that after the interesting debate and speeches this morning. The Democratic Party Group and, above all, the Health Commission have worked intensively throughout the year to avoid what many of us, recently in this House, have called shameful on so many occasions. I am referring not so much to the request for an extension, but to the fact that it stems from the inertia of all the institutions and of all those who have been and are responsible for the procedures necessary to overcome the OPGs, with alternate events. It is true - as Senator Alberti Casellati said - that the procedure, if we look at the most recent years, was initiated by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April 2008, exactly six years ago. However, I would like to point out that, since 1 April 2008, almost nothing has been done for forty-two months. It took forty-two months simply to be able to approve a monitoring table and make it pass into the State-Regions Conference. Surely there are also responsibilities of previous governments. It is unnecessary, therefore, to state that we are responsible for providing for a new extension. We must be concrete and look at the facts with realism. We must look at the mistakes that have been made in the past and ask ourselves how they can be solved and dealt with in order not to make the same mistake yet. I would also like to remind my colleague Alberti Casellati that - as you should know - the Commissariat is already provided for in Law No 9 of 2012 and has only been reinserted in the decree-law that the Government has submitted and that we are converting with amendments. I am obliged to inform the House that the only Region that has in progress a procedure of commissioning, because the Government has found that it has not been able to present within the month of May of the year before the program for the overcoming of the OPGs, is the Veneto Region, regarding which we probably have to ask the Government (and will certainly be done on the next occasions) to accelerate the procedure, because it left several months ago and has not yet been completed. Not only that. The decree-law that the Government has submitted to our examination is accelerating - so to speak - and strengthening the commissioning action, on the basis of Article 120 of the Constitution, providing that if within six months of its entry into force there will be no elements that allow to detect a real acceleration, so as to allow the conclusion of the year, the commissioning will start in the next six months. The Commission is, therefore, at the heart of all of us, precisely because we want those who fail to do so to be subject to substitute powers so that things can go on. Of course, we all approve this measure with great bitterness, because it shows, once again, that a process has been launched that has accelerated in recent months, also thanks to the monitoring work that the Senate Health Commission has carried out to ensure that all actors report and realize the difficulties. It is true that this project has been launched slowly, but I believe that this measure is continuing to overcome the logic of mere declarations of principle and is starting a more binding process that imposes a series of obligations on all subjects, demanding a strong acceleration. I therefore believe that the challenge is important. If we believe in it and put all the necessary effort in order for everyone to collect it and carry it forward with determination and also with courage - sometimes we need courage to overcome the obstacles and inertias that we have seen for too many years - perhaps we will succeed in winning it in the times that we have set ourselves today. The Democratic Party, therefore, announces the vote in favour of the measure, for a number of reasons that I want to summarize quickly. First of all, it is a measure that deals with those who are the last among the last. As has already been pointed out in yesterday's session, they are people who suffer from mental discomfort. We all know, through direct and indirect experience, how people who suffer from mental distress are often victims of the stigma and degradation of the structures in which they are received and assisted; they are people who have committed crimes and, therefore, are deprived of freedom. It turns out that the people present in the six OPGs still open are 1,051. These people are deprived of freedom in places unworthy of a civil society - as the President of the Republic emphasized above all - and therefore suffer from that stigma and those enormous prejudices that still exist in our country towards them. They suffer from exclusion, isolation and the lack of therapeutic-rehabilitative plans worthy of a health service that takes care especially of the weakest. We also believe that strengthening efforts to overcome the GPO is a matter of respect for the dignity of people and citizens' rights. We are very disappointed that in recent months - as we have seen from the various hearings - the measures previously adopted have often been interpreted restrictively, transforming this process into almost a matter of mere public works. This is extremely disappointing, because the problem is health protection and not the creation of new structures. The realization of the new structures is the instrument by which we can recognize the right of mentally ill people to be cured, assisted and helped to social reintegration, to the extent that this is possible, like any other person in our country, with the same right to be cured. The elements put in place by integrating the decree-law presented by the Government help us to have confidence in the process that we will carry out this year. I can say, and not only on behalf of the PD Group, but I also believe of all my colleagues who have worked with us in the 12th standing Commission, that this year we will not fail to follow regularly and systematically the steps taken by all the players, so that we can all play that role of support, promotion and stimulus that Parliament once adopted a measure, just to verify that the law is then implemented. A monitoring table has been planned, because there is a need for strong coordination to move forward. The coordination that has not been created autonomously requires a kind of directing booth in order to favor a real governance of the system. It is necessary that the Regions all make therapeutic-rehabilitative plans, in order to make clear and binding - this we have written, because it must be clear to the health companies - that the obligation to prepare for every person currently interned a therapeutic plan is necessary in order to respect their right. There is a need for staff training, as has already been said yesterday, and there is a need, above all, for rules to reduce new entries in OPG. While on the one hand the health system will have to be equipped firmly to accommodate the people who are currently interned, it is necessary not to send to the OPG the 600 people who in recent years on average have been sent to you, because otherwise we empty a tub, but in the meantime it fills with new people who are sent to the OPG. This is why the role that the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary can play and the collaboration between healthcare companies and the Health Service is very important. We will therefore vote firmly in favour of this decree-law and we will work to implement what we have proposed in this remaining year, in the belief that by the end of next year we will have made far more progress than we have done in the past. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u63	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u64	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the road outlined and planned so far will not lead to the solution of the problem. In the technical and regulatory report accompanying the Decree-Law, on page 9, it is clear that the intention is not to make this extension structural. But the mechanisms that are identified to make this will real, which for the moment is only on paper given that we are already on the second extension, are or will be totally ineffective. The system in fact provides the obligation for the Regions to give account, within six months, of the state of progress of the interventions. It is easy to understand that, if the Regions fail to comply, the Government would remain only six months to resolve the issue definitively, which is completely impossible to achieve. I therefore repeat the need to intervene following the indications of the professionals who deal with these issues and who have spent their entire life locked up in the same places. So I will refrain from taking part in this vote, as the measure is incomplete and ineffective; at the same time, I call on the competent Commissions not to waste any more time and to help the experienced operators in the sector, in order finally to arrive at a law that does not make legal torture of people in difficulty. In Tuscany and Emilia, Professor Alessandro Margara tried to expand and make functional Law No. 9 of 2012, but he was completely unheard of in this decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u65	I would like to say that the rapporteurs have presented the C1 coordination proposal, which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall put it to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u68	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 52 of 31 March 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be authorised to make any further changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u72	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the offices for the very valuable work they have done with us, since the seminar on judicial psychiatric hospitals, which has seen the presence of many experts in the sector and of people who have worked in the OPGs, with good peace from Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u75	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I rise in relation to the continuation of our work and the next item on the agenda. In view of the progress that the same have had so far and the absence of President Palma, the only proposer of Law No 112, I propose, with the agreement of the other Groups, to postpone the discussion of the measure to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u78	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). We agree with the postponement to the next sitting if this does not turn into a political postponement. If there are reasons other than those outlined by my colleague from the Democratic Party, it is good that they emerge at this time. Otherwise, and for these reasons, we can express our agreement to the postponement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u79	As it is already foreseen in the timetable that unfinished items are automatically postponed until next week, the timetable remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u80	I greet the students of the Military Aeronautics School of Giulio Douhet in Florence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u83	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I will try to be very brief. I think it is right and proper for this House to remember the Armenian genocide today. Today is the World Day on which we remember this terrible genocide that took place, as a symbolic date, in 1915, almost a century ago. Today is the 99th year since that dramatic date, which coincided, moreover, with the entry into the war of Italy. It is particularly significant for our country, where the Armenian community is very rooted and wide. For that genocide there were more than a million deaths in a terrible crossing in the desert, with people who literally died of hunger, humiliation, hardship and violence. I also want to remember, as witnessed by that very touching book by Antonia Arslan, how many people were killed in Turkey at that time. In this regard, I would like to announce a news that I find extraordinarily positive: after many years the Turkish President Erdogan for the first time apologized, he made condolences to the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the Armenian people so atrociously murdered. I find this not only from the point of view of human rights, but from the point of view of international politics a sign of extraordinary positivity that makes us hope in the future for a friendship between peoples. I am acting as President of the Parliamentary Association of Friends of Armenia. I am honored with the task I carry out, and I hope that, with this Senate and the House, we will be able to do a fruitful job so that memory does not get lost. However, I hope that the memory of that genocide, which took place thirty years before the Shoah and which marked a set of genocides that we lived in the last century, will not be closed in a drawer, but live indissolubly in the values of today, to build together a future of peace. Today we commemorate this genocide, and we cling to the Armenian people, who have finally found a homeland and who live together between diaspora and Homeland in the demand for that political, cultural and human autonomy which is the foundation of the dignity of every people. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u86	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, this morning I went to the Senate Post Office, where each of us receives letters, messages and ordinary mail, and I found a yellow envelope addressed to me as Vice President of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of the Republican Senate. Unfortunately, on the inside I found, despite my own, three sheets, obviously anonymous: one addressed to me, another to my colleague Casson and the other to my colleague Stefano. I do not show the content of these papers, because it would be insulting to this House and to our role as senators; it is clear that they are insults between the ironic and the threatening, images even obscene, because when you want to hit a woman you also put a large dose of misogyny. I believe that the reference is to the work we are doing in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, since - I repeat - it is addressed to me and to Senators Casson and Stefano. I want to denounce what I have suffered, warning, if anyone will ever listen to these words and if ever the person who felt that he should greet me so in my day, that I am not afraid of these things, and that not only I am not afraid, but I consider them ridiculous, shameful and also very silly. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, LAG and NCD groups.]] Besides, I even consider them unworthy of a lawsuit. I will not even make the effort to go and file a complaint against people who feel that they should address themselves in this way, hiding behind anonymity, to the senators of the Republic who are doing their duty with dignity, pride and firmness. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, FI-PdL XVII, LAG and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u87	Senator Pezzopane, I believe that the anonymous letter addressed to you and to Senators Casson and Stefano is an honorary title, given the signature: from experience, having received many, I tell you that they lengthen their lives, so let's make a reason for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-237.ana.u89	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 29 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.30 a.m.
