ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, first of all I would like to point out that my microphone has not been working for a long time, so I would ask whether it can be repaired if necessary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll appeal to the technical services. Montevecchi (M5S). I shall then request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1212, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 965. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] I call on my fellow Members to be silent, because there is a buzz that does not allow us to listen to Senator Russo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u9	Madam President, I take the floor briefly only to express non-formal thanks and my satisfaction with the work, which has enabled the House to deepen a measure which - and Members of the House will not want to do so - is greatly modified, and I believe that it is improved in many parts of it than it has been given to us by the other branch of Parliament. This is due to the fact that, despite the differences that remain in the approach to the norm, all the Groups have certainly expressed the intention to improve a measure that - as we said in many already yesterday - is certainly neither perfect nor unchangeable. However, it must be acknowledged that it is worth communicating outside this House the capacity and will of Parliament to start, breaking the ice - as my colleague Mr D'Alì said yesterday - and winning some timidity, a process of reform that the country undoubtedly feels the need for today. I believe that some Members have helped to understand the spirit in which this legislation is to be incorporated, bearing in mind that, in the Senate House itself, we will be discussing decisive steps in the coming weeks. We will talk about the reform of bicameralism, we will deal with Title V, the electoral law, which was passed at first reading in the House; all this will not only completely redesign the constitutional aspect of our system, but will have a significant impact on the issue of democracy and the participation of Italian citizens. I believe that, by taking up some of the points that have emerged, it should first of all be stressed and pointed out that the Commission, on a proposal from the rapporteur, has shown its will, which I believe will also be expressed today in relation to the constitutional bill proposed by Mr Crimi, to keep absolutely parallel the case of the measure that we are debating today with the constitutional reform that will definitively remove the constitutional status of the Provinces; it is a positive fact to the extent that it has been shared by all the groups of the Commission and, I believe, even today in this House. We will do this by taking back something that was already at the origin of this process because, as you know, the House has a very similar provision deposited by the Government right at the beginning of the parliamentary path of the bill that we are examining today. I believe, and this has been well said by Mrs Lanzillotta yesterday, that this is a process that helps us to do a job that starts today and that will have to affect even more deeply the real costs of the public machine where, when it is not efficient, it does not respond to its duty to constitute the decisive infrastructure for this country. I greatly appreciated Mr Fornaro's speech yesterday, when he mentioned something I had already mentioned in his report, namely the fact that this is not a punitive measure for more politics or more democracy: we must not and cannot give the country the idea that democracy costs too much or that democratic participation, even through elected assemblies, is a burden that our country cannot bear. Our country cannot bear instead that of more bureaucratic passages, that of more that has been built over the decades and that today does not allow to free the energies that instead civil society, families, the enterprises of this country could express and that it is necessary to free them in order to be put in condition to overcome the crisis. From this point of view, I would particularly like to highlight two figures. I think that we must bear in mind the reflection of these days, with the limits - I repeat - of having put in place a first initial redefinition of the governance of the vast areas of this country, which is the heart of this measure: we must take this into account when we put our hand to bicameralism. I believe that today we begin a reasoning that must have its own fulfillment within the definition of a Senate of the autonomy that gives full role to a piece of the institutional system of our country, of whose importance we have said and of which many colleagues also spoke yesterday. To the concern that many people feel, and that welcomes that of many others, that is, the risk that eliminating a level of participatory democracy can also change the area of democracy in our country, I respond by stressing that, by putting our hand to the reforms that await us, we must be careful to have a more imaginative one. The experience of the twentieth century, that of the great mass parties, associations, intermediate bodies, which then moved to participatory institutions, councils at all levels and in Parliament today, we know, is called into question by what sociologists call liquid society, by the great societies of mass opinions. We know that today we must reinvent institutional interfaces, but we must be clear that this cannot be at the expense of the need to work to expand the spaces of democracy, I repeat, with a little institutional imagination, so that, above all at the territorial level, the spaces in which citizens, families and associations find different representation, perhaps not only interacting with the elective Assemblies, are multiplied and not reduced. Experiences of this kind in the world are multiplying, so we must have our ears on the ground, being able to listen to what emerges again not only at the social level, but also at the microinstitutionality that is being created. Even reforms such as today's must not be communicated as the reduction or cutting of a piece of democracy, almost as if this were an unsustainable burden, but as the liberation of energies that can allow us new fantasies, that restore - we have reminded many - the constitutional sense, which always reminds us that sovereignty belongs to the people and the way in which the citizens will exercise it is in the responsibilities that await us. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u11	Madam President, at the beginning of my reply, I believe that I owe my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Russo, and to those who had preceded him in this complex activity, Senator Pizzetti, who is sitting with the Government today, for the work he has done, because they have allowed the text dismissed by the House to be substantially modified. I think I should also thank you for the very useful and important, even complicated work done in the Commission, where the political debate has made itself clear. As last, but not least, I must thank the senators who spoke yesterday, because they gave rise to a debate that was definitely participated and intense, not without some controversy, but certainly witness to a convinced autonomous culture that is on the benches of this Senate. However, I would ask that a corresponding proof of consideration - not sharing - be given to the Government at the time when it presents a bill that intends and I also believe in the proof of the results that, once approved, this text will mean an important point in the history of the institutional architecture of the self-governments in this country. Yesterday a Senator from the Mixed-SEL Group recalled that he is always concerned when he hears: We are faced with an epochal reform. Well, I have this same kind of concern of yours, because I am convinced that the things that are needed and that matter are the reforms that deeply affect the political and institutional culture of this country and I believe that the bill under consideration has such value and scope. We are not faced with epochal turning points, but we are faced with a politically, culturally and institutionally different approach to the subject of autonomy, and I will try in my reply to motivate these arguments. I will address some issues that I anticipate for clarity: the constitutionality of the measure, the question of the direct election of representative bodies, the question of the fundamental functions of the vast area and the Unions of Municipalities. I shall address them briefly, indirectly referring to the many speeches made yesterday. I would start with the decision No. 220 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court, the one that had declared unconstitutional some articles of Decree-Law No. 201 of 2011 of the Monti Government, and I would like to stress some aspects of it, because I believe that this allows a more calm reflection on the issue of constitutionality. Often, in fact, when it comes to constitutionality, you get a little caught up in your passion - and that for our Constitution is a wonderful passion - and you risk losing sight of the overall plot of a bill. The first point from which I would like to start, drawing from the reasons of the Constitutional Court's judgment, concerns the node of the provincial dimension which, as the Court itself says, does not arise with the problem of financial consolidation, nor can it be completely exhausted in it, but constitutes a historical issue of the Italian territorial administrative structure. The Court points out this because if it is true - and I will try to prove it later - that this bill will have content that will lead to important savings in expenditure, it is also true that it is above all an attempt to re-collect the institutional architecture of the autonomous bodies in a modern way, and this is the main cause of the reform to the attention of the House today. The other issue that I want to take up from the reasons of the Constitutional Court is another very specific issue. The sentence is very explicit. It does not close at all, of course, the problem of reform as a whole: indeed, in the text of the judgment there is an openness towards reform, being emphasized that it is the task of institutional actors to find lines of transformation of territorial levels of administration, to which the Court does not seem to want to bind them in a rigid way, even if for this reason they will not of course be able to escape the constraints imposed by the Constitution. This means that Parliament has, not the power, but the duty to put its hands on the reform of the autonomy, regardless of the constitutional reform. Finally - and this is the clearest and most explicit aspect of all - the Court states in its judgment that its arguments do not lead to the conclusion that the local authorities' order can only be dealt with by constitutional law - indispensable only if one of the institutions provided for in Article 114 of the Constitution is to be abolished, or if the constitutional guarantee is to be taken away from it -(...) - this is exactly what the bill does to your attention. This does not mean that there will be and should not be a constitutional intervention, proof of the fact that - as already the Government Led in August last year - the Renzi Government has presented a hypothesis of reform of bicameralism and Title V in which it is expected to amend Article 114, with the disappearance from the Constitution of the Provinces and with a consequent series of acts in support of such cancellation. This does not mean, however, that this is the preliminary condition in order to be able to continue to discuss and modify the norms that concern the local autonomy of this country. See that this is not an interpretation of the doctrine: it is a step in the decision of the Constitutional Court that many of you yesterday recalled. I would like to address the second issue, namely the direct election of representative bodies. Meanwhile, I believe that the Metropolitan City should be distinguished from the Provinces and that it is worth making a premise, also in order to historically frame a theme that we take too many times and too often for granted. The Province, even when it was born in the middle of the 19th century, is an ambivalent entity. If we go to resume the report of Minister Rattazzi to the New municipal and provincial order of October 23, 1859, at the time of the birth of the Provinces, in it it is said to be, the Provinces: they face simultaneously as organs of the Government with respect to the populations and as organs of these with respect to the Government. The ambivalent nature of the Provinces is from the moment they are born, and from 1859 to today this House and that of the House have repeatedly discussed this issue. A kind of ballet was born, which saw some extraordinary stages for the institutional history of our country, which witnessed a visit and come of the ways in which the President of the Province was elected (direct election, appointment). There was an alternation of these choices until, in 1934, during fascism, the first single text of the local authorities was approved, which provides for the President of the Province to be appointed by government. I would like to remind you that the single text of the municipal and provincial law approved in 1934 remains in force, with regard to the indirect appointment of the President of the Province, until 1951, with Law No 122, which for the first time introduces the direct election of the President. This means that the political and representative character of the provincial bodies was not present at the Constitutions of 1947, because only in 1951 the prefect was replaced by an elective president. I believe that this makes clear a whole series of misunderstandings, for example with regard to the fact that direct election is or is not a comparison term to define the representativeness of the provincial body. This is a point on which I believe there should be careful reflection. Let us be careful, because when we think about this we open up the prospect to the new local authorities of wide area to represent something extremely significant, point on which I will come back later. I come very briefly to the question of metropolitan cities. [[Senator Carraro's comments.]] I'm going back. Don't worry, Senator Carraro. I go back and dedicate this passage to her, so I am clearer in the interpretation of what we are doing. The metropolitan cities were established in 1990 with Law 142: we are talking about twenty-four years ago; from then on they have never been realized. This bill will give life to metropolitan areas, and this is an extremely significant fact, if only we imagine comparing our system of local autonomy with the rest of Europe. Metropolitan cities in France, Germany and the United Kingdom are the drivers of economic development: not only urban development, but economic development. I believe that the time has come to allow ourselves to activate, for the first time, in a serious and politically functional way, the metropolitan cities and guarantee them a role of development. This is all the more important the more serious is the general economic situation. See that the elections for the metropolitan cities in the European panorama are all second-level, with the exception of that of the Mayor of Great London, who, however, is not the mayor of the city, but is the head of the great authority... [[Comments of Senator Malan]] Fazzone (FI-PdL XVII). The municipal representatives are elected. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). We studied! [[Senator Malan's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u12	Colleagues, let the government representative speak. Senator Malan, let him speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u13	Mr BRESSA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am not giving any lessons: these are merely terms of comparison in order to respond to the elements that you introduced yesterday in this debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Bressa, continue your speech. Mr BRESSA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I'm not introducing this. You argued the need for direct election for metropolitan areas. I'm simply telling you that for all metropolitan areas in Europe there are second-level elections... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's an election, exactly! Mr BRESSA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. These are second-level elections, like those planned for metropolitan cities. I would just like to remind you that the elections to the Mayor of Paris next week will also be elections of this kind: the 163 municipal councillors will elect the Mayor, and there is nothing different from what the metropolitan assembly will be able to do when the statute decides that this will be done. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's not true. It is a statute imposed by you! [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u14	Senator Malan, don't interrupt undersecretary Bressa. Allow him to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u15	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Tell the truth! Mr BRESSA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The statute is approved by the metropolitan assembly, no more and no less, and there is no imposition. Therefore, we have done nothing but take for example the main models of the metropolitan areas and transfer them to a law of the Italian Republic. The other important issue is that of the fundamental functions of the vast area. We know that a number of intermediate levels of government exist throughout Europe between the municipality and the regional level. There are only nine countries, and they are all very small, with only two levels of government. In all the others there is an intermediate dimension: it exists in France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain and Poland. [[Senator Amoruso's comments.]] I know you have studied, but since yesterday you attributed to the Government of incompetence and inculturation from the constitutional point of view, I am simply explaining that what we submitted to this House is - no more, no less - a European model. AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). You're chattering! You're making fun of the citizens! Fazzone (FI-PdL XVII). We represent 50% of the metropolitan cities in Europe. Mr BRESSA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. You know, Senator Fazzone, that in France you can form a metropolitan city with 500,000 inhabitants. We place ourselves well within this range and have no problem, from this point of view, proving what we are saying. But the important thing is that, at last, we define the functions of a wide area, and this is done not because of their size, but because of the things that must be done: it is about what the Municipalities cannot do, because they are of too small size, and that it is not right to do the Regions, because they are of too large size, unless you want to go back and make the Regions, instead of politically responsible bodies, bureaucratic-administrative bodies. [[Comments from Senator Carraro]] Inside this logic has been inserted the program proposed by the bill under consideration, having in the definition of vast area and its functions an extraordinarily important novelty [[Comments of Senator Carraro]] because the size of the vast area will be the only recognized dimension between the municipal and the regional level. This will mean that there will be about 4,000 or 5,000 intermediate regulators that will fail, because the vast area will interpret this decisive and fundamental function, both from the regulatory point of view and from the management point of view, where the municipalities or regions decide that it also has this competence and assign to the vast area its functions. So you understand that, for the first time, we enter an order of ideas for which representation is no longer a political representation, but a territorial representation. Democracy is no longer vertical, but horizontal. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] because the mayors and municipal councils will decide what the tasks of the vast area will be. The last issue I want to address is the issue of the Unions and the merger of Municipalities, which is a direct consequence of the choice of the introduction of the vast area, which necessarily leads the Municipalities to exercise the functions together. Having made this important step, we had to be in a position to have some tools that allowed the small municipalities not to disappear, but to associate and to be able to guarantee the best services in their own territory. In this draft law the process of union and merger of municipalities has been simplified and facilitated and democracy has returned to invariance of expenditure, because the increase of the municipal councillors that is expected to be at invariance of expenditure. This is therefore a response to the criticism made in yesterday's debate of applying the spending review not on costs, but on democracy, cutting capacity and levels of representation. With this rule, of course, we are heading in the opposite direction. This measure is the first piece of a mosaic, the most important of which will be constitutional reform. This measure anticipates, even if in a not definitive and transitory form, what will be the contents of the future local administration. Madam President, I would ask, if possible, for a suspension to allow the Minister to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u18	The government has requested a suspension. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, the suspension is decided in this House, and not because the Government wants it. Instead, I am asking you, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, not to move on to the examination of the articles, proposal that I would like to explain very briefly, also because, I would say, after hearing the intervention of the undersecretary Bressa... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry to interrupt, President Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Can I explain the proposal, Madam President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When we go through it, you can do it. I believe that we must prejudicately vote on the suspension, because the Government has asked for it and you, rightly, have said that you decide on this House. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Mr Calderoli, you will legitimately explain your proposal not to move on to the articles when we come to examine it. Since there is a request for suspension, it has priority, so we put it to the vote. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I intend to speak on that, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the suspension request? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Exactly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. As you wanted to explain the proposal not to move to the articles... CALDEROLI (LN-Aut). Listen, President, either you listen to me and then you answer me, or you don't listen to me and you take the floor. That's how it works in here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u19	Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, I listen to you very well, and as you were moving on to the illustration of the proposal not to move on to the articles I pointed out that the issue of suspension has priority. If you want to talk about this, I'll give you the floor, or I'll take it from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u20	I deny the willingness on our part to accept the suspensive hypothesis because for three months we have been waiting for answers from the Government in the Commission and only this week we have been able to hesitate a measure. At the end of the day, we arrive in this House; we probably could have started voting on the articles last night, but we did not want to do so on the pretext that the opinion of the 5th Commission had not been received; therefore, I believe that my proposal must be examined before proceeding with any other act, because we know very well that the suspensive action is needed by the government to put the question of trust, after which no one can vote on the non-version to the articles. Therefore, I hope that at least the respect for parliamentary democracy will be guaranteed by my fellow Members. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Mixed Groups]] I am asking the government to vote for the non-passion to the articles, after which it will ask for the suspensive. Otherwise, the Commission is demonstrating that the numbers in this House do not have them except by asking for confidence. The vote on the non-turn to the articles can be done on a nominal basis: each vote and record his/her vote, after which he/she will assume the responsibilities. If the Government insists on its proposal to suspend before the vote on the non-turn to articles, it introduces a very negative practice. On the other hand, I hope, compared to the text, that no one intends to table a large different amendment and contrary to the text that was voted on in the Commission, because otherwise chairs really fly; It would be the first time since the Berlusconi, Monti and Letta Governments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] I say this because this delay is due to indecision whether to take the Commission's text or amend it. Well, if you want to do this too, then other than comb the dolls or stain the jaguars: we are back in the 20-year period, dear President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Senator Bignami Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u23	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out, in relation to Senator Calderoli's speech, that the absence of the opinion of the 5th Commission required the decision that the House took last night to suspend its work. So it wasn't an artificial ruse. On the other hand, the government asked for a suspension before knowing what would be the next content of Senator Calderoli's intervention. I therefore believe that, as always, and as always, Senator Calderoli makes it happen when he presides over the House, this House must proceed in accordance with the order of business that took place during today's sitting: we first had a request from the Government; we express ourselves on this and then move on to the next subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u26	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would remind you that Article 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states that the suspensive question, as the one put forward pursuant to Article 96, must be discussed and that any other intervention is carried out after the Senate has pronounced itself on it, including the intervention of the Government. It doesn't matter whether the government said it or the last speaker in general discussion. We have finished the general discussion and, in accordance with Rule 96, this is precisely the time when we can ask for a non-transition to examine the articles. It is clear that Mr Boschi's speech has nothing to do with the general debate. We now have to vote on the proposal not to go through the articles, and not after that. Apply the Rules of Procedure, Madam President! You have a very strong responsibility for this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u27	I apply the Rules of Procedure, and I do so in the sense that the Government, before proposing not to move on to the examination of the articles, has requested a suspension (and not a suspensive one). ENDRIZZI (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government requested suspension before Senator Calderoli intervened with a request not to move on to the examination of the articles. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, first we put to the vote the request made by the Government and, subsequently, we will proceed to the vote of the preliminary ruling of the non-passion to the articles. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The Rules of Procedure do not say that the Government is always right!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u29	Senator Calderoli, you've already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u30	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not want to speak to make this a long time: I have a request to make to the Government. If the government undertakes to ask for the suspension, the House will vote for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not a suspensive, it's a suspension. There's a difference, as you teach me. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, perhaps a jockstrap, in this case, President. [[Laughter. Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If the Government undertakes that, once the sitting has been suspended, we will be allowed to vote on the request not to proceed to the examination of the articles, after which I do not have the slightest problem to accept this request, provided that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u31	Senator Calderoli, you have already spoken against the government's request. I don't think we can question the government. The Rules of Procedure are applied by the Presidency and, therefore, the sequence of votes is decided by the Presidency itself. I put to the vote the request to suspend the sitting, made by the representative of the Government. It's approved. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting until 10.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:17 a.m. and resumed at 11:16 a.m.) Let's resume our work. He asked to speak to the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government... [[Comments and ironic applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u33	Sorry, so we can't listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u34	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. ...the entire replacement of the draft law on Metropolitan Cities, Provinces, Unions and Mergers of Municipalities, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Comments and ironic applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u37	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to clarify a matter of absolute importance. It seems to me that I understood - I hope I was wrong - that confidence is placed on the text approved by the House of Deputies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Commission's text. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). On the Commission's text, that is, on the text approved by the House with the variants introduced? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, there was confusion; if you applaud them in the end, as should usually be, and not during... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] I have not been able to listen to the Minister; therefore, I am not able to clarify either. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, would you please repeat that? [[Brusio]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u38	Senator Calderoli is right: the text is the one approved by the House as amended in the Senate Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u41	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Now it seems to me to be correct. But, ma'am, I'm getting a hit. Yesterday I heard President Renzi say that 3,000 politicians will not take the salary. I have made the accounts: we increase the number of city councillors by 26,000 and the city councilors by 5,000. Mr Fornaro (PD). But they don't get their paychecks. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Those who say they don't take the salary are ignorant because the text speaks of invariance of spending, that is they take a smaller slice of salary but they all take it 31,000. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] Mr Fornaro (PD). It's not pay, it's a token of presence. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But there are expenses related to these 31,000 extra units: you do not suppress the Provinces, you do the proliferation of armchairs! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u42	Senator Calderoli, it seems clear to me that the Minister referred to the text of the maxi amendment just tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u43	VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. No, no! ENDRIZZI (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, please consider the maxi mum amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u46	Mr Boschi, Minister for Reform and Relations with Parliament. Mr President, confidence is placed on the large amendment that has been tabled, which incorporates in a single article the text approved in the House and amended in the Commission in the Senate. Of course, trust is placed on the maxi amendment consisting of a single article in which we take into account what were the opinions expressed this morning by the Budget Commission and the conditions that were necessarily to be transposed under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u47	Now the text of the maxi amendment, which is being distributed, will go to the budget committee together with the technical report. In the meantime, I shall convene a Conference of the Leaders, since the question of trust has been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u50	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, just for the sake of clarity in this House, I would like to ask Mr Boschi a question, because in his initial reading he did not seem to me to be so precise. I ask the Minister, who takes full responsibility for this: does the maxi amendment correspond exactly to what was adopted in the first Commission? Is that it? Because if this is not the case, it does not take into account the changes introduced by the 1st Commission in relation to the text approved by the House. We want to have at this point, in a state of reasonable confusion, a precise certainty. I repeat the question: does the maxi amendment respect exactly the text that comes out of the Commission on the basis of the amendments introduced by the amendments adopted in the first Commission? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u53	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Senator Romani, the maxi amendment incorporates the amendments introduced in the first Commission to the Senate and takes into account - as I have already said before by replying to Senator Calderoli - the conditions laid down, under Article 81 of the Constitution, by the Senate Budget Committee this morning. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u55	I remind you that I have just convened the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u56	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, allow me to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you were not here before, so I do not know whether you followed what happened here before the suspension of work. Senator Calderoli, following the request for a suspension of the work of the Undersecretary in the context of the reply, asked to vote on the non-version to the examination of the articles. This was prevented as priority was given to the temporary previous request to suspend work. Common sense tells us that now, when the work is resumed, the first thing to examine and vote is the request made by Senator Calderoli not to pass the examination of the articles, pursuant to Rule 96 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] On the contrary, the Minister has been given the floor to ask for confidence and, therefore, to block this passage. I call for the immediate vote under Rule 96 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, as first requested. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u59	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, since I have heard many points of order made, I would quite frankly ask you, in application of the Rules of Procedure, to interrupt this debate. When the government representative stands in the Chamber [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] and announces the question of trust, the work stops and begins the new procedure related to the vote of confidence. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] So I would ask you, please, to stop this debate, which is not provided for in our Rules of Procedure, and thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Crimi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u61	Senator De Petris, do you intervene on this problem? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Exactly on that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I must say that I am very surprised about Senator Zanda, because we could bring out a very long repertoire of his speeches here. If what happened this morning, I don't know what he would have said and done at other times. We could make a long list.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u62	[[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut]] What happened this morning - let's say that there is a continuity for which, even if at that moment she presided over Senator Lanzillotta, it was as if she were present - I think it was clearly a forced force. In fact, it is clear that, only after the general discussion is concluded, you can ask not to pass to the examination of the articles and only after the Government has finished replying. But if the government, while replying, asks for a suspension, this is a clear artifice to place impediments. President Lanzillotta, however - and then you, President, who gave it to you - clearly said - it is in the minutes - that the Government's request would have been voted on earlier, with the forcing that I have just recalled, and immediately after, when the House resumed its work, and therefore before putting its trust, the request not to move on to the examination of the articles would have been put to the vote. This is very clear and you can verify it, having obviously followed what happened at 10.15 a.m. this morning. Now the government has put the trust and this will be a mistake. In any case, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u63	When the Government puts its trust, the Conference of the Leaders is convened immediately and the parliamentary debate is interrupted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u65	Now we have to stop this debate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u66	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not want to have a debate, but you correctly said that the Conference of Leaders should be convened. This is the ordinary procedure. However, the same ordinary procedure means that when the Government asks for confidence in the subject of a vote, the subject of the vote will be given in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are not in a position to know the contents. That is the first point. Secondly (if it is transposed: then, of course, through Article 81 of the Constitution one the maxi amendment writes it as the devil wants), the Budget Commission concluded its work after the conclusion of the Council of Ministers which authorised the imposition of confidence. So what the hell did the Council of Ministers say if the 5th Commission finished after its work? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] Evidently, the crystal ball allowed it! Before we make the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, either we have the maxi amendment or there is no subject on which the question of trust has been raised and therefore we cannot convene the group leader. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u67	The text of the maxi amendment is distributed. You will then be able to verify what Mr Boschi said. I have already said that, however, that text of the maxi amendment will be forwarded to the 5th standing Commission together with a technical report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u70	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier. It is true that Mr Boschi has said that he must take account of what the Budget Commission has debated and expressed, but the Budget Committee has expressed itself with conditions and comments. The conditions, of course, are those of invariance of expenditure; the observations are something else. I would like to ask another question: does the text of the maxi amendment take into account only the conditions or even the observations? If it takes account only of the conditions, we are basically talking only of invariance of expenditure; if it also takes account of the comments, the text changes a great deal and therefore the perfect adherence to what was debated in the Budget Committee should be better established and agreed (beyond the fact that we still have to examine the text, which has not yet been distributed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u71	I repeat that the text of the maxi amendment, for a completely correct procedure, will be examined ex novo by the Budget Commission, which will deliver another opinion. It seems to me that a more transparent and correct procedure than this cannot be. It will be the Budgetary Commission that will once again express its opinion on the text of the maxi nal amendment. Is that clear? There are several senators who have asked to speak; I give them the floor, but then we have to conclude the debate, because the representatives of all the groups have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u74	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I rise to renew the request made by my colleague, Mr Zanda, a moment ago. We are in a very typical situation, which we have known many other times and which, in particular, Senators Paolo Romani and Calderoli know very well for having lived on the other side, both as a majority and as representatives of Government. [[Comments from Senators Tremonti and Calderoli.]] I am disturbed by my colleagues Tremonti and Calderoli in my serenity of exposure. Therefore, I renew your request to move on to the Conference of Leaders. As you know, the text's adherence to what the Commission has decided does not constitute a formal constraint; there is a well-established practice, but there is above all a constraint with regard to the opinions of the Budget Commission, which will have a way - as you have just pointed out - of expressing itself again. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] We are therefore in a typical situation, which must typically be resolved now, in the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u76	Senator Santangelo, it seemed to me that you were reunited with your intervention. As you propose it again, I call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I have been asking to speak for five minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, do some gymnastics. Senator Crimi has already spoken for his Group. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, thank you for your physical activity, which you too would do very well. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Endrizzi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u78	I'll do it, look.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u79	SANTANGELO (M5S). Apart from the physical issues, from a methodological point of view, the fact that the Government has come today to ask for confidence in a text modified by the 5th Permanent Commission that we have not yet received is not a small detail. The government has put its trust in a text that is not there. Furthermore, this text that is not there should be examined by the 5th Commission where it could probably be modified and probably could also be cancelled, so confidence in a text that does not exist could have been sought. In the meantime, you have convened a Conference of Leaders on the basis of the same text as there is. Indifference passes what happened a moment ago. From a regulatory point of view, Mr President, I appeal to you, the President of the Senate, to apply the Rules in a strict manner and always in the same way. Senator Calderoli asked, immediately after the Government replied, to apply Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. What has happened is neither an artifice nor a wit: it is a completely improper way of using the Rules of Procedure. According to article 96, paragraph 1, Senator Calderoli's request had to be put to the vote. Violations of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, are now taking place at an unacceptable frequency. Therefore, as the Parent Company of the 5 Star Movement Group, I say to you that we will put in writing what happened yesterday, that is that it was not made to vote the most urgent on the bill that would put the word "fine" to the Provinces: that is what happened today in the Chamber. We would like to point out that at the moment the text that you have been decanting for half an hour and which you say is being distributed is not the same in any Group. No one has it, and probably not even the government. Neither do you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u80	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the adoption of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, fully replacing the articles of draft law No 1212 in the text proposed by the Commission. Therefore, in accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission so that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it will inform the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I also call on the Conference of Leaders to organise the debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.33 p.m. and resumed at 12.53 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u81	The session is resumed. The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the articles of the draft law on Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. The sitting will resume at 3 p.m. on the assumption that the Commission's opinion on the financial cover profiles of the text will be obtained. The timing of the general discussion on confidence was divided on a five-hour basis. On the basis of the interventions booked, the final explanations of vote will presumably start around 5.30 p.m. and call it around 7 p.m. During the general discussion, the Commissions are authorized to convene a consultative meeting on the decree-law on the return of capital held abroad. The general discussion of this measure will take place this evening at the end of the vote of confidence. The examination of the decree-law will continue in the afternoon session of tomorrow, which also provides for the resolution on the urgency of the constitutional bill in the matter of Provinces. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.54 p.m. and resumed at 15.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u82	Let's resume our work. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u83	Mr President, the Commission has thoroughly assessed the text of the amendment on which the Government has placed its trust. In the Commission, both the senators and the government took the floor, with reference to cover issues; in particular, the Commission considered it necessary to clarify the honesty of paragraphs 14 and 82, therefore calling for explicit reference to the gratuitousness of the allowances (I use this word in this regard, because after it will be the subject of a brief reflection which has been done in the Commission) for the posts held at certain periods. Of course, it was based on a number of assumptions already contained in the text on which the Budget Commission had expressed its opinion. And so, if these clarifications are requested in the legislative text, the Budget Commission naturally supports the view that the burden should be free of charge in paragraphs 14 and 82 of the amendment on which the Government has put the question of trust. My own, Mr President, is an instance which only the Government can then decide to include in the amendment that it has tabled, which - I only remind myself - is in its exclusive lordship. In the Commission's view, however, the forecast of the free burden expressed in paragraphs 14 and 82 is undoubtedly positive. The same is true of paragraph 22. The Commission's opinion on the text this morning also provided a basis for that paragraph. The question was a little more complex, because it was expected that the law setting up such posts would have to regulate whether they were free of charge or not. I repeat, of course, the immediate forecast of the gratuity of the burden is a good thing for the budget Commission. Mr President, ours is not a matter of merit. If I were to speak on the subject, my thoughts would probably be others. However, it is quite clear that, even in a comparative assessment of the text, the express forecast of the gratuitousness of some offices is naturally positive for public finance. And the Commission, as you have rightly pointed out, expressly reports on this. Therefore, in our view, the request for inclusion of the free provision for paragraphs 14, 82 and 22 should be accepted. On the other hand, we do not believe that they are worthy of acceptance from the point of view of our concern here, namely the immediate relevance of Article 81 of the Constitution, in relation to the forecasts set out in paragraphs 135 and 136. On the other hand, the Government itself, in its presentation to the House, expressed an opinion which was absolutely identical to what I have just told you. The Commission has also focused on a number of specific issues, some of them of substance, but at the moment they are not relevant to my role and to my speech. Therefore, I will only report on the paragraphs that concern us financially. First of all, it has been said that probably in some cases the word "gratuity" is widely interpretable, i.e. it refers not to the allowances but also (called in accounting terms) to the fixed costs (I imagine the telephone line that is used for the performance of the functions, but of this I will then talk about paragraph 105, paragraph 5-b). However, for the Commission - and I say this also for the benefit of Parliament's work - it is clear that gratuitous payments relate to allowances and certainly not to the operating costs in which they express themselves and measure the function. I wanted to make this point because it could be useful. It was rightly pointed out by some senators that if gratuitousness is extended to such an extent, it could be the object of exception and, therefore, of additional burdens. It is for this reason that I welcome that clarification by reminding the House that the budget committee always intends to refer to the free allowances, the compensation, and not to those improperly defining service costs. Another reflection expressed by some senators always on the same issue is the case that a person for whom a post is expected to be held without compensation renounces to perform it. At that point it is necessary to appoint a Commissioner whose function could be costly. That too must be said here: it has always been the Commission's idea that, at the moment, it does not remain in our role, since it is a possible, uncertain and non-standard effect. In fact, it does not contain the prediction of a commissioner, on which we could have told the Government to provide for him to be free of charge. There is no such forecast and, therefore, we cannot refer here to something which is not provided for in the text and which could possibly be. However, this is not the case, because it would be sufficient for the Government, if it accepts the gratuitousness of the allowance, to transfer it, if necessary, to these figures of a commissioner or exceptional nature. Therefore, this does not result from a specific request that I should make. One last question has been asked, and it is a question of system. Some senators have asked whether the possible emulation effect that might come from the transfer - for example - of staff to other administrations whose remuneration is higher has been foreseen, so that two persons who carry out the same job with two different salaries could be found. This is something that exists, but it is also not included in the text and does not continue to be discussed at the moment. This is an observation that I make in order to take this into account and to say that the one in the text of the Government is a forecast made to current legislation, as it must be. On the other hand, in this regard too, our opinion on the text focused on these terms. Finally, another question raised, more of a system, was in particular the question of the possible temporal differentiation between the higher certain charges and the lower possible charges. However, this is an issue - as we have seen - which has been dealt with in the opinion on the text of compensation assessments, so much so that - as requested by the Government - compensation mechanisms for paragraphs 135 and 136 do not believe that the Commission is the subject of immediate evaluation under Article 81 of the Constitution. Finally, Mr President, in order to avoid any misunderstanding and an modificative condition in relation to what has already been expressed in the opinion, I would like to suggest the text in which you will find that reference to the allowances I mentioned earlier and which reinforce the orientation I expressed. I would like to ask you to replace paragraph 105 (5) - ter, the first period with that which is a replacement which is not of substance, of which I do not allow myself, but which relates to a part of a purely financial nature. The text I propose is as follows: The President of the Union of Municipalities avails himself of the secretary of a municipality belonging to the Union, without this implying the provision of additional allowances and in any case without new or increased charges for public finance. In this way it is clear that it must be without compensation and meets some substantive comments that were made, on which we absolutely do not intervene and which I consider to be the subject of the seigniorage of the Government, after, and of the Commission, before. This text meets the needs of the one, but is even more precise in terms of the burdens of public finance. Therefore, Mr President, the questions on which I am asking are (of course, the Government will comment on this): to include free of charge for paragraphs 14, 82 and 22 for different reasons; to replace the first period of paragraph 105, paragraph 5-b, with the sentence which I have explained to the House in advance and which I am also prepared to give to the offices in writing, should they need it. That, Mr President, is what I have to say about the debate that took place in the 5th Commission on the text of the government's trusted amendment. [[Applause from the NCD, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u84	I would like to thank President Azzollini and the members of the Commission who were able to give us this opinion so quickly. I therefore invite the representative of the Government to comment on the proposals suggested by President Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u85	Mr President, after listening to President Azzollini's technical report, the Government agrees with the proposals made, also in view of the fact that this is a relevant solution under Article 81 of the Constitution, to quote the words used earlier in the Commission by President Azzollini himself. I would also like to point out that, already in this morning's opinion, explicit reference was made to the need for effective and complete gratuitousness. However, since this was not included in the conditions - as Minister Boschi clearly said this morning - we had only and exclusively incorporated Article 81 into the amendment, leaving the text dismissed by the 1st Senate Commission unchanged. At this point, however, after the technical report, the Government proposes the following amendments: In paragraph 14, in the second line, delete the words "free of charge." Consequently, in the same paragraph, after the words "remain in office" shall be added free of charge, thus accepting the indications of the Budget Commission. In paragraph 22, delete the period: The same law may provide, by way of derogation from paragraph 24, a specific function allowance for the metropolitan mayor, providing for the necessary financial cover. In paragraph 82, after the words "remain in office" the following shall be added: "free of charge." Finally, paragraph 105, paragraph 5-b, is reworded in the text of which President Azzollini has now read, replacing the first period with the following: The President of the Union of Municipalities shall make use of the Secretary of a municipality forming part of the Union, without further allowances being granted and, in any case, without new or increased charges for public finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u86	Thank you. The offices will distribute it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u89	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that President Azzollini has pointed out a number of points which have emerged in the Budget Committee, and I hope that the Government will perhaps say a few words to us, at least by comforting us that the problem will be addressed. It seems to me that the solution found for municipal secretaries, that is to exclude allowances, although I wonder why the expression "without allowance" was not used in place of the word "free" referred, instead, to the Presidents of the Province and the Councillors. I would also ask undersecretary Bressa and deputy minister Morando to take on the aspects related not only to the allowance, but, more generally, to what is the direct cost that these people are called to assume. Not only do we assign personal and patrimonial responsibility to the administrator until the end of the year - in fact, he responds solidly to what he does - but we have configured a text for which, paradoxically, if the President lights the light in his office, there might be the prosecutor who blames him for the offence of being a sinner. In fact, we have not even foreseen that the living expenses that one should bear should be reimbursed: we are not talking about reimbursements - for heaven's sake - but, for example, about the use of the telephone, as President Azzollini said. It seems to me all too obvious that, in the face of taking responsibility, we cannot pay to make politics, and I believe that Article 3 of the Constitution does not say that, because one can make politics independently of his own income, as Senator Uras has well mentioned in the Commission. We are creating the conditions for certain types of policy to have access only to those who have their own income, regardless of popular support. Let us also think about this, because we are really doing something wrong. It would therefore be important and fair that the undersecretary Bressa, while having to accept the indications of the accounting officer, gave us a comfort about the fact that the government intends to address these problems before 24 and 25 May, because we are doing just one thing wrong. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD and Senator Malan Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u90	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the 'Corriere della Sera' headlines, in a very effective way, the Battle of the Provinces. It seems to me that the debate on this measure, which is very much as stubbornly desired by those who claim that one should run, run, run, have lost the sense of direction to those who, furiously to run, could go and beat themselves up, getting very badly. Already the fact that he had to ask the question of trust is significant in itself, as Matteo Renzi had assured several times that he would use this instrument only in exceptional cases. If this instrument is used immediately, the Government clearly shows that it is in the wind after a few steps. Using the metaphor of running, given that Renzi is a runner, I would say that he is already in distress not a month after his installation. However, I want to go further and try to reason, provided that there is someone here who wants to do so, because the problem is that there is no desire to do so. Reforms are done by believing, studying and having clear objectives to pursue. If the objective to be pursued, as has been repeated several times, is to bring public expenditure back to a more appropriate size, more sustainable especially by compressing waste, that is fine. But why not have the humility, also in this case, to resort to an instrument that our Constitution imposes and that will be called by many lawyers (because we will face litigation) to reorganize all local authorities? I am referring to the instrument of the constitutional bill. I just want my colleagues to understand that. In the meantime, there are a number of concerns raised by the Court of Auditors about the effective extent of the savings that will be brought home to the regime. These remarks are made by the Court of Auditors, not by the 5 Star Movement or by some political heretic. But in addition to this, if you really want to save money, why don't you start taking charge, for example, as well as a reform of the ordinamental architecture also a simple measure that includes half, or even more, compared to the costs that these institutions actually make bear to the Italian citizens and taxpayers? But all this has not been seen. You have simply seen an attempt, if you also want clumsy, to use words to hide conservation policies. We will abolish the Provinces (even if it is a pun, because in fact we will abolish the elective bodies that have so far governed the Provinces), we will replace them with other bodies that will have the possibility and the task of carrying out the same functions and we will mandate, for example, the Regions with a special statute to provide for themselves to indicate which can be the metropolitan cities that the current bill allows them. Now, we have known for some time that, for example, regions with special status have not shone because of carelessness in spending. For example, I refer to how many journalists like Stella, Rizzo and many others remember for the region from which you come, President Grasso: in Sicily we all know that perhaps a reduction in public spending, managed by the Autonomous Region of Sicily, would be desirable. However, my time is running out, and there is little reason in this House: I have now realized that the words here very often are simply intended for stenographers and for those who may, patiently, want to read them. I would like to bring politics back to this House, a Chamber that is only capable of distraction and dissipation. On the one hand, the state dissipates resources and in this House perhaps so many dissipates words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u92	I address a greeting on behalf of the Assembly to the students, students and teachers of the Institute including via Montebello di Parma, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u93	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u94	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments very quickly. I would like to say that we members of the Left Ecology and Freedom component of the Mixed Group actually look at this measure with great dismay, if I may use these words. The measure seems enormously confusing to us, it seems to us that for the umpteenth time, however, even with the imposition of the question of trust, as often happens for a long time in this part of our politics, instead of starting from the head we start from the tail. Above all, perhaps because we are in a somewhat particular historical era, in which the appearance of the substance is more important, so it is more important to be able to shoot a statement on the front page of a newspaper and to be able to say that 3,000 politicians, as I read this morning, will no longer have the salary, or things of this kind, I believe that there is unfortunately a huge confusion. I also think that one should be very careful to handle demagogy so casually. I believe - and I have been thinking this for a long time - that politics should do much more to respond to anti-politics, if I can use these words, and first of all it should have a serious, rigorous, even scientific attitude, I would say, to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, in a particular way, otherwise demagogy, like lies, ends up having short legs: then the truth is discovered, it turns out that many are proclamations and not serious things, and it also turns out that it was more useful to use one topic rather than another to have the title in the newspaper, but it has served much less to really change the things that determine democratic and social sufferings of this country. This is exactly what this provision is: great titles fired, great demagogy, and little, very little substance. The Provinces will remain, but there will be no democracy anymore. I'm telling you, look out, but where are we going? Where is the fundamental, strategic vision of the Renzi Government compared to these central nodes? Even on the use of parliamentary majorities, I would really like to make a point. It strikes me very much that we once talk about the issue of the electoral law for the European elections, which concerns democracy, and we do so with a kind of parliamentary majority, in that case even extended to the 5 Star Movement, which is no problem in voting on a hallucinating norm such as that which provides for an unnecessary barrier in a competition such as that of the European elections. Then we talk about Italicum, and there is another majority there, even the one with very high barriers, also the one with an idea that reduces democracy and the possibility of participating in the democratic game. Then we discuss constitutional reforms, and who knows what will happen: we still don't know what the majority will be, or if there will be. We read things in the newspapers really of all colors, even if we put the question of trust on matters on which it obviously cannot be placed. Then we discuss a measure like the one we are discussing, once again without head or tail. Then I really want to figure out where we're going. What is the Renzi Government's basic view of the democratic issue, with respect to how democracy has been consumed over the past few years? What are the most effective means of putting a democratic path back in place? We need to enlarge democracy, certainly not to restrict it, certainly not to make it the exclusive prerogative of a few political parties, which have been delegitified by the fact that over the years - as we all know - the percentage of people who vote has been greatly reduced. We are already close to 60% of the voters who go to vote: what do we want to get to? How much do we want to go down to ring the alarm bell and to understand that the measures we are approving perhaps respond to demagogy, but certainly not to the need to put in place a real democratic process? We, for example, express an absolute dissent on the assumption that universal suffrage can be replaced - let me use this expression again - with this somewhat bald idea of second-level elections. What are second-level elections? And if we want to introduce second-level elections, we should - then yes - extend a great political debate to the country, make these issues the subject of shared and collective reflection. You choose a different path instead. We are very concerned; we think that in this way we may get some more newspaper titles, but certainly we do not solve the structural problems of the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u95	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u96	15:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u97	Mr President, I regret that Prime Minister Renzi is not here to listen. It is true that, even if governments and their presidents are changed, there are still enormous chasms between what is said and what is really being done. It has already happened recently with its predecessors: just to give an example, with the much-warned abolition of public funding to the parties, except then find that, if all goes well, the parties will stop taking it in 2017. Same thing about the electoral law, and now in this maxi amendment it is proposed, to paragraph 27, gender equality, but if we move to the two successive lines we immediately discover that until 2017 it will not be applied. Now we have moved on to the promises of the Tuscan Bacchus, as recently painted by the New York Times. But didn't you have to change course with the rifler? But wasn't the "Bacchus" really aimed at reducing the costs of politics? Now it is pretended to do so in a clumsy and disorderly way, while what should be done instead is a real constitutional bill to eliminate the Provinces, simplify, rationalise, remove the underwood clientele often fed by the local administrations. Wasn't that supposed to be the end of the provision? To abolish means to reduce everything to zero, instead to paragraph 22 you had provided for a derogation in order to establish a function allowance that only after the intervention of President Azzollini you have thought to modify. Can we say that you missed the intention of saving money? And what about simplification? It certainly does not help to simplify the prediction that every Metropolitan city can adopt its own statute: this translates into a multiplication of rules that increase the cumbersomeness of the Italian legal system, keeping citizens increasingly away from the understanding of the institutions. We want to approve yet another unconstitutional text, and the costs would not have decreased at all: more containers and less and less contained. Here, as with the reform of the Senate, we do not understand, for example, what will happen to the 61,000 units, which represent about 18 percent of the costs of the Provinces sector, which are certainly an unbearable cost, but which is indispensable to predict how to use at the service of other administrations. We have explained this well in the question we have put before us, but this does not seem to be of interest to this House. Do I remember badly, or did Prime Minister Renzi say, in his first speech, that it was no longer fashionable to ask for trust? Which doesn't seem to us, given the last periods, including your government that, in forty days, for the second time asks the two Houses for confidence on two measures. These are important measures that Prime Minister Renzi and his party have waved to the citizens as electoral propaganda for the next European elections. So this is the new fashion? Can we already make appointments for the next trusts and mark them on the calendars, since you said that in seven months you will make seven important reforms? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u98	I greet a representative of the Südtiroler Bauernjugend, present in the gallery, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u99	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u100	Mr President, the historic and political phase we are going through is very difficult. These are years of profound social laceration; years in which politics has not always been able to give adequate answers and so, slowly and inexorably, it has broken that relationship of trust between citizens and institutions, the distance has become in some cases sidereal and the consequences are in the eyes of all: populisms, demagogy, anti-cast sentiments, denial of comparison and listening, verbal violence. We therefore have a great responsibility: to give back to the citizens the true meaning and value of civil commitment, a testimony that another policy can exist, a clean, sober, ethical policy. I think it is up to none of us, especially if they take on large and important public positions, to compete in the race to talk to the people's belly. We have seen in the past that that policy has produced wars, hatred, racism, xenophobia and inequality. Then we should all open a new phase: that of the moral and ethical reconstruction of the country. During these months we have discussed the importance of sharing constitutional reforms with all the political and democratic forces of the country for a long time with the Letta Government. True, the government has changed and we haven't discussed it yet, yet we seemed to see the same same majority. Today we are faced, in fact, with a constitutional reform that skips any democratic procedure. This bill is the final act of a monstrum of institutional reform. To get to this reform we went from high-sounding phrases and ridiculous proposals, such as combining pieces of territory that for history, identity, functions and even geography had nothing in common. There are ministers and technicians who have played in Risiko with the Provinces, even if they were pseudostatists in Yalta, and we have not understood, however, what would be the plan of overall institutional reorganization that is proposed, because for now we are only faced with announcements and slogans that transmit little, very little, what idea of the country this Government has in mind. Today we are faced with one of the many missed opportunities. We could discuss how to establish metropolitan areas, the real ones, and instead, in reality, we simply abolish provincial councils, that is, democracy. We of the Group of the Mixed Left Ecology and Freedom would have liked to discuss what ownership the metropolitan areas must have on the choices of the territory: from mobility, structural plans, urban planning regulations, infrastructure choices, not to mention waste policies: but, all this has been denied and they define new institutional levels that do not have real power to the bottom, in conflict with other powers and, moreover, without them corresponding to a democratic control as wide as possible. Maybe we are ancient, not technological, but read in a tweet: "If tomorrow passes our proposal on the Provinces, 3,000 politicians will stop receiving an allowance from the Italians #Lavoltabuona" gave us the creeps. We have returned to the evidently never abandoned ideology of destruction. It has been communicated to Italian citizens that 3,000 politicians are only a cost, and not a word, not one has been told about how to expand democracy and the participation of citizens. Is this the message and the idea that this government has of democracy? The democratically elected representatives of the citizens represent the citizens and the general interest for us. If we are witnessing in recent years very serious examples and episodes of those who use public resources for personal gain, we are talking about something else, and that must be denounced, without any hesitation and publicly. But we should have the intellectual honesty to shift the discussion plan to that of truth and transparency, even if this risks making us unpopular. The idea that politicians should not receive an allowance was of the Albertino Statute. It was the 1800s. If one looks at our history, he will remember that this was one of the reasons why the first socialist Members of this country were generally wealthy: only those who were rich could make politics. The fact that there is an allowance for politicians is provided for by Article 69 of the Constitution, which should be read together with Article 51 and Article 67 of the Constitution: a system to ensure that, at parliamentary level, not only the rich (and I use an old word on purpose, so perhaps we understand each other better) can make politics. Talking about 3,000 less politicians is barbarism! They are people who have dedicated commitment, time, passion and very often with an annual CUD of 867 euros. That's all we're talking about. That's all we're talking about. Yet the President of the Council had his first institutional experience as President of the Province and it took four years to decide that the Provinces had to be cancelled. And if memory does not deceive me, in those four years important resources have been used for a series of initiatives, certainly useful for the growth and visibility of the territory, but useful also for personal visibility, of course. We really have a democratic emergency problem. We really reject the idea that, in order to reduce the costs of politics, the spaces of democracy must be reduced. We at Left Ecology and Freedom consider it a value to have more people committed to creating communities and identities and sharing political choices. And never and never will we share the idea of a low-intensity authoritarianism at the local level, also for the reform that we are doing, which responds only and exclusively to an exercise of populist demagogy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u101	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u102	Mr President, first of all I would like to make a point of order. The rapporteur is not in the Chamber, or perhaps I do not see him, and I do not know whether it is appropriate to continue the work in the absence of the rapporteur and whether the Rules of Procedure allow it. I shall of course leave it to you, Mr President, to decide on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u103	Senator Crimes, from a regulatory point of view there is no mandatory presence of the rapporteur because, since there was a request for a vote of confidence, the amendments cease to exist. It is, however, an issue of opportunity, and I warned the rapporteur directly that he would come to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr President, but I wanted to clarify this point. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens (to whom I am addressing because our speeches are usually heard more outside than inside the House), what are we going to do? We are about to vote on a fake measure (for which, of course, we have expressed all our opposition). The phrase "abolish the Provinces" was, in the election campaign, a flag for all. Then, as usual, when you get here you forget everything. You think, Mr President, that yesterday I read in the Democratic Party programme (and I smiled when I read it) that the Constitution would never be amended by special committees or by way of derogation from Rule 138. It was a written commitment in the Democratic Party program, but we only noticed it now, because it was stuck between the lines. How many electoral programmes have the Provinces been abolished? Only then, when you get here, abolishing becomes a new challenge. Reform, reorder, reorganize and remodel: these are the words that are usually used, of the real "supercazzole" (forgive me the term, but it is now customs-free, to give the sense of what you want to do). In fact, what are we going to do? To ten Provinces we will change the name, we will call them metropolitan cities; then the Provincial Councils will be called Metropolitan Councils and the President of the Province will be called Metropolitan Mayor. Well, we got the big change. The other 98 Provinces remain so; not even the name can change because it is written in the Constitution. But what's amazing is that we will soon find a provincial council elected among the municipal councillors and municipal councillors of the Province: a so-called second-level election. But the municipal councils have been elected in the past years, moreover with an electoral system that also provides for a ballot between the two main political forces. And since in these years in all the municipalities there have been two prevailing political forces, the right coalition and the left coalition, the future provincial councils will be nothing but their prerogative. So let's also say that there is a political will in the reordering of the Provinces. In the Commission it has been said that what is really needed is to amend the Constitution, eliminating the word "Province" from the articles containing it: it has also been said by the Government and will also be written in the bill of reform of Title V of the Constitution. Then what do we do? We are launching an immense measure, which contains everything, but a transitional one, because in a month we will change everything again. That's what we can't understand. And if we can't figure it out, we're in here and we read the papers, I can't imagine what's gonna happen out there. Of course, outside there is the announcement: as well as for public funding to the parties, it will announce: "Abolished the Provinces!." Too bad the Provinces stay. Then explain it to the citizens when, after hearing that the Provinces have been abolished, they will find the Provincial Council, the Provincial Office and so on. Not to mention the increase of municipal councillors in the municipalities under 10,000 inhabitants. It has already been said this morning, but I have done the precise calculations because I did not trust what President Calderoli said. I thought it was too much 26,000, and I was sure there was a mistake. In fact, President Calderoli was wrong, but by default, because it is 26,510. However, he forgot one thing, namely the 5,500 extra city councilmen. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). He said it, he said it. CRIMI (M5S). Someone said they'd be at zero cost - let alone! - because the presence tokens will be re-modulated within the municipal council. However, between offices, collaborations, armchairs and positions in participating companies and whatever else there will be the usual partitions. Not to mention the appessation of the whole process for the municipalities that are going to vote, in which the signatures have already been collected for the electoral lists. Now we force the political forces to collect more signatures or in any case to modify the lists and to cancel all those collected. But the lists show up in a month. Every time we change the electoral procedure in the vicinity of the vote. The measure really sees us opposed on the whole line, because it is useless and creates more confusion than anything else in the Italian institutional panorama [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u106	Mr President, on 18 November 1925 a measure was approved in our country which should have been historic, because, late than in some countries, in advance of others, women were allowed to vote for the local elections. A few days ago we had a long debate about a regime of preferences and voting, not about equal opportunities in elections, but about ensuring that the outcome of the European elections was of a certain kind with regard to the belonging of the elected men and women. Too bad that this law of 18 November 1925 was never applied, because after not many months the same fascist regime abolished the vote for the local elections, so all the Italians of all the municipalities found a mayor who took the name of "podestà", to distinguish it rightly from the mayor, who smelled a little 'too much of elections, what Mussolini called the "paper illusions." Thus all Italians found themselves deprived of the possibility of electing their mayor. Certainly some of these powers have done good in their municipalities, but democracy is something else. Twenty years after that date I mentioned, a little before twenty years later, tens of thousands of Italians and hundreds of thousands of foreign soldiers came to Italy to restore freedom and democracy. What do we do in a mature democracy today? We begin to deprive - we begin, because everyone will say that it is a good start - the inhabitants of the Municipalities that are part of this "Thing" called metropolitan City, which then are nine Provinces, to which will be added those of the Regions with autonomous statute, the right to choose one of the figures that will rule, and with very important competences, on their territory. Not only do we deprive them of the right to direct vote, but also of the right to indirect vote. The inhabitants of all Italy will have the Provinces, because here today, despite the titles and slogans, we are not abolishing the Provinces; we are abolishing the provincial elections, which will be held yes, but reserved for the elected in the Municipalities. So the citizens will all be deprived of the right to direct vote, but at least there will be an indirect right to vote: if I do not like my President of the Province, I can hope, at maybe five years old, to elect a different city councilor or a different Mayor, who, from there maybe at three or four years, when there will be provincial elections reserved for their lords, will be able to change that President of the Province. But if I live - as I live - in a Province that is renamed Metropolitan City and strengthened in its powers, I did not have this power, either direct or indirect; my Metropolitan Mayor - I must say that makes me laugh enough this expression - is chosen by others: the respectable lords citizens of the Municipality of Turin. And this will apply to the Province of Milan, Rome and the many other metropolitan cities, which will be as numerous in Italy as in all the rest of Europe put together, even if we were the Soviet Union (today I should say Russia, but perhaps it is more appropriate Soviet Union). The inhabitants of these municipalities, I said, will be completely deprived of the right to choose the metropolitan mayor: others will choose him. In fact, not even those others choose it, because, when this law comes into force, the metropolitan mayor will be a gentleman elected by the citizens of the capital not to be the President of the Province (because we speak in Italian), but to be the mayor of that city, to look after the problems of that city. And this mayor has certainly promised to spend every day of the week studying the problems of the city, this neighborhood, this other neighborhood, this service, this street, this outskirts. A Mayor already has a lot to do; so much so that we know that a well-known Mayor of Florence could not stay out of town, where he was home, but he had to have an apartment in the city (with some implication with the rent of this apartment, but let's forget it). Well, he, after promising his citizens, his voters, who should be sovereign in our country, to do one thing, will be forced to do one of these two things. First, it can betray the word given and also take care of the Province, which in the case of mine (Turin), out of a total of 2,200,000 inhabitants (more than different regions), has 1,500,000 inhabitants, against the 800,000 living in the capital. So, he could handle a little bit of the million and a half subjects out there. I'm talking about "suditi" because they have no title to elect him, as for the king: you find that there because he was the son of that other, and we find him there because the citizens of the city of Turin decided to elect him. All right, let's hope they picked it right. Therefore, he could deal with the problems of the Province; if he does, however, his City Councillors would have every right to make it fall, because, while I am a citizen of the Province even if I agree with all the inhabitants of the Province I could make it fall or change it, and when the elections of Turin will come I will not be able to change it because I am completely irrelevant, the 50 Municipal Councillors of Turin will be able to drop it by majority. Note well that this metropolitan council, which will be elected according to the modalities of this law, not even unanimously can bring down the metropolitan mayor, so these that good or bad (very bad, because they are the result of a vote of second degree mediated) are expression of the entire population of the Province, are little more than a consultative body and can not bring down the metropolitan mayor; instead, 50 councilmen of the town council can make it fall, and maybe they want to make it fall because it deals - look a bit - with the problems of these "colons" of the other municipalities of the Province, instead of dealing with the problems of the city, as it has promised! Beyond the disputes about cost or less, it must be remembered that the Court of Auditors has stated that there is danger, indeed it is clear that at least in the short term there is an increase in costs. The sure thing is that there will be an increase in costs in terms of work, because, even if all these bodies that are created (the Metropolitan Conference, the Metropolitan Council, the statutory conference and anything else) cost nothing, there will also be the official or the employee who has to deal with it, and these, instead of following the problems of the territory, will have to follow those of the Metropolitan Conference, of the statutory conference, of the Metropolitan Council. There is nothing for free: there is a cost that will be at the expense of the administration of the Municipality, the Province or the Metropolitan City. This is done. It would seem at least a thing foiled, and instead it is not, because (it is also our fault that we have lost the elections) it is in fact that - happens - the Mayors of these metropolitan cities, of the capital municipalities, are all left and - by chance - all these cities have a rather important debt, so they will discharge the debt of these capitals on the other municipalities of the Province, with no guarantee, if not relying on the good heart, indeed worse, but I would say almost to the self-harm of this future metropolitan mayor, hoping that it will also deal with the rest of the Province. But why should the metropolitan mayor take care of the rest of the Province when elected by the center, the capital? He said undersecretary Bressa in the Commission that the law offers the possibility of establishing direct election. Yes, but it offers it on conditions that are primarily demencial and secondly will never occur, such as the fact that the capital city should decide to split into two, three or more municipalities, and then direct election would be possible at that point. Let's say that at that point it would be impossible for the town council to have a Mayor, since it would no longer exist: therefore it is an impossible condition. Note, postilla: this obligation is, for example, for Turin, with its 120 square kilometers, but there is not for Rome, which has an extension of 1,285 square kilometers and is ten times larger. Then, Rome, ten times larger and three times more populous, should not be broken, while Turin, much but much smaller, should break. And why would he do that? Why isn't your mayor also the mayor of the metropolitan city and so maybe he can't use the resources that the entire Province should use to heal the debt or deficit of his city? But when? We are faced with a real irrational, undemocratic and clearly unconstitutional imposition: unconstitutional because we are a democratic Republic and sovereignty belongs to the people, and in this system decentralisation is a fundamental aspect. It is not that our state is democratic only at the central level and decentralisation may not be democratic; the latter must be equally democratic. I recall that the 8th transitional provision of the Constitution states, in a text that is a Constitution, that the elections of provincial bodies are popular elections, and are elections, above all. We are not talking here about second-degree elections: it is said that there will be no election at all. The Mayors of the Municipalities will become Mayors of other hundreds of Municipalities without elections! It would be like to establish that Roberto Maroni, as President of the most populous Region of our country, by law is President of the Republic and perhaps at the same time also President of the Council, since the President of the Region combines at regional level the prerogatives that at national level belong to the President of the Republic and to that of the Council. It would be a solution: Roberto Maroni President of the Republic, not because the Italians like it but because it was voted by the Lombard President of their Region, and then it can also be the President of the Italian Republic. They would save themselves money, but we would no longer be in democracy. In the face of this centralized democracy, it occurred to me - in addition to 1925, the year I mentioned earlier - what happened many centuries ago when the city of Rome ruled more and more vast territories. Who, however, decided who should command Rome? It was decided by the Romans, however, in the face of enormous limitations, because it was a democratic Republic, but it was very partially so, in a very mediated way (as we want to do now), and only those who resided in the afternoon, within the city of Rome, could vote. However, this is a very old condition because then very soon, at a time when there was no such great democratic sensitivity and certainly there was no our Constitution, it was understood that it was a system that could not stand: the Romans could not continue to decide for the whole Italian peninsula and perhaps for the entire Mediterranean basin. So, step by step, citizenship, and therefore the appearance of the right to vote that was exercised in the Roman Republic (I do not speak of that of the nineteenth century but of that founded by Lucius Junius Brutus in 509 B.C.) could not continue to be applied so; therefore, the right to vote was extended also to citizens who resided outside the city of Rome. Let us now return to that epoch, to purely imperialist Rome - albeit in grass - in which the provinciales are deprived of any right. It is a bit what happens with a certain way of conceiving Europe: the German Government is the real leader, but not all Europeans are elected but only by German citizens. The German citizens elect (justly for their convenience) a certain Government, which - at the moment chaired by Mrs Merkel - does the interests of Germany, quietly, at the expense and at the expense of many other countries, and in fact we are suffering this situation because we cannot influence the decisions of the German population. It is not that if we prefer a German candidate we can vote for him, because we vote for the candidates who come to the elections in Italy; we vote for the candidates for the European Parliament but not for those who come to the German elections. This measure is intended to transfer this system to the provincial level. We will talk a lot about costs and armchairs, but the fundamental aspect is that here we are, or rather we are, saying, gentlemen of the majority, that if we can do the elections, if we can not do them, indirect better than direct, and if we can do no election at all. Millions of Italians will find themselves in exactly the same conditions imposed during fascism: they will find a Mayor who did not choose. With a difference: at that time he had been appointed and had to be accountable to no one, except to the central government, and therefore there were no preferences for the city or the Province. Today, however, the mayor is elected by the city and is imposed on the Province; therefore, towards its voters he has the obligation to tax the inhabitants of the Province and offer them as little services as possible to fill up the coffers that have been emptied from years of waste. This is truly unacceptable. Unfortunately, we will talk very little about this point and a lot about chairs and 500 euros going and coming, when, instead, what is left is democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u107	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u108	Mr President, last week's news is that in Galliera, in the Province of Bologna, the majority and the Mayor have not been able to approve the forecast budget for failure to return from debt. Without the budget it is not possible to continue; therefore, if they fail to approve it by the end of April, the municipality will be commissary. I am afraid that this bill, which is now clear to everyone, does not erase the Provinces, will have such a domino effect on the holding of the Municipal Councils, all of which have budgetary hole problems and which will therefore release their responsibilities to each other. That's the thing that scares us the most about the Movement. It really seems that you do not have any clear vision of the real situation, nor of the consequence of the draft laws that have been passed in these classrooms (in fact, in this House they only go for a yes or a no). Besides... (The President converses with the Senator Secretary). Excuse me, Mr. President, but between you and the government representative, someone listen to me. In addition, as a member of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones, I tell you that not a word has been spent in this bill for the coordination of law enforcement within the metropolitan cities and the vast area, while words have already been spent on cutting them. Once again I warn you - and I have told you so many times - that you are delivering this country and the places where people live their daily lives to mafias and organized crime. I wish you had the courage to use this truth as an electoral ad! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u109	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the abolition of the Provinces. In Italy, a large number of citizens would confirm that they want this choice. But what do our fellow citizens mean by Provinces? What would they want to abolish, cancel, overcome? Waste: this wants to overcome Italians, because they are squeezed by a tax levy that impoverishes them and a lack of services that forces them to pay public services, from health to university; services, moreover, made increasingly less effective by the search for savings at all costs. Among these wastes, there are above all the benefits of political personnel, what we are now used to calling a political class - from the time of Gaetano Moscow. Perhaps, then, what we have to ask ourselves at this point is whether this legislation reduces waste and improves services, that is, the effectiveness of the public sector, or whether it is another operation of political cosmetics, made to allow the President of the Council to say that it would cut 3,000 posts for politicians, among other things, all to be demonstrated. By the way: Did Matteo Renzi compete with a certain 5 Star Movement on the ground of populism? He's very good at communication, and he might, but is the Democratic Party going to follow him along this path? We're watching, and frankly, we're very curious. In our opinion, this legislation does not reduce waste. That would have led to a drastic reduction in the number of provinces - which in recent years have increased to a great extent - also because such a reduction could have led to a reduction in the peripheral offices of the State, which absorb many of the funds. This legislation, on the other hand, increases confusion. Anyone who has stopped to read the article will have experienced the same effort as me to proceed with the examination of a mechanism that is frankly cumbersome and reduces the spaces of representation, without increasing the administrative effectiveness, which is then the great problem of Italian citizens. Basically, one remains in the middle of the ford in the search for a solution to the problem of the vast area, and the premises of constitutional disputes are laid, having engraved with an ordinary law on a matter that has a series of implications of constitutional level. In closing, I highlight one last question. This government is on the path, sadly known, of the compression of parliamentary debate and of the forcing of Parliament's will, putting the question of trust. It seems that before disfigured Parliament with Italicum and sterilization of the Senate, it was decided not to give up continuing the humiliation of the parliamentary institution with the cutting-edge use of the question of trust. We take note of this, and we point out that each of us is in charge of the Constitution and the centrality of Parliament. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u111	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when you try to remove the stain using the wrong means, you end up doing worse. The spot - it is known - are the Provinces: unlikely entity, without a clear reason to be, if not the multiplication of the armchairs; a breeding where the parties educate and indoctrinate the young levers to the little noble art of lottification. The stain is the partycracy which, due to the greed of a few, has allowed the economy to drown, to the detriment of the entrepreneurs as well as the workers. Mario Monti, unmistakably called as a savior, instead destroyed Italy with a policy of rigour that is still producing its bitter fruits and, with wisdom and arrogance, demanded to intervene on the Provinces by decree-law, miserably cut off then by the Constitutional Court. Result: the stain has widened, the economy is on the verge of asphyxiation and the Provinces are commissioners and on the point of returning to the vote. A five-star government would immediately start an income of citizenship, measures for businesses, the revision of the constraints imposed by Europe and, with regard to the Provinces, it would immediately start their real abolition, through a constitutional bill, the only legitimate instrument for such a reform. I can say that we would have done so, because we have drawn up and deposited these proposals: we acted before we spoke. Instead, a President of the Republic was obliged to a second seven-year-old, as once a worn coat was led to revolt, and not sounds of offense to him, but to the partycracy that pushed him to a step that he himself held out of place and that, before him, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi had defined strident with the principles of the Constitution: a step wanted by the majority of the single party, which then imposed on him the government of the single party, and the results are these. A real will to abolish the Provinces you do not have it, and so, instead of the politics of the facts, we have witnessed the policy of announcements, made of lies, lies and mundane revolutions. This bill does not abolish Provinces: it transforms them as you have transformed electoral refunds into indirect public funding to parties. You would like to intervene by ordinary law now with an intrigue of rules, which will lead to a complication of the institutional order, an administrative hypertrophy. Appeals and litigation have already been announced: further work for the Consulta and also economic damage to the Italia system. This is a mess that will lead to conflicts of attribution and violation of constitutional principles, which is already confirmed in its political substance by yesterday's vote on the preliminary ruling, because you also realize that this is not standing. There will be savings of dubious quantification, while it is certain that there will be additional costs, especially in the transition phase. And then the real costs are the indirect ones: keep the Provinces and establish a quantity of metropolitan cities higher than all those existing in Europe, entrusting them strategic competences, but subtracting the citizens the power of control through the right to vote; you will therefore increase the power of the parties, the lottification, the waste and the customer management of the contracts for the works and the services. Then we will see how the costs will increase, tightening the noose on public finance and the possibility of recovery of Italy as a whole. We are not late, we can still remove the stain and put the correct order of things, in content and method. The Commissements of the Provinces can simply be extended, giving priority and adequate space to the constitutional bill for their true abolition. We can still choose whether to bring back the Parliament, the Constitution and the principles governing its reforms to the centre or to satisfy the image requirements for purely electoral purposes of Graziano Delrio and Matteo Renzi, who, in order to be able to take advantage of a false result, have aimed at this reform all the electoral mishap, like the coffins consumed. It's up to you, it's up to us: time will be a gentleman, but you have to be a gentleman when it counts. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u113	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, after three months of pause, the Delrio bill has been accelerated by Prime Minister Renzi (I remember that the House's first reading examination dates back to 21 December, more than three months ago). Renzi, however, after the flag of Italicum - indeed, a half flag, because the new electoral law is not yet such - needed to wave a second one to the people, to demonstrate the high performances of the new Executive compared to those of the governments that preceded it, that Letta first (and all the members of the majority in obedience to obey). The modus operandi of the Mayor of Italy - moreover, in the role of first citizen of Florence, to what the chronicles say, among the most absentists - is obviously to amaze with the efficiency, speed and timing to respect (at the limit, it is allowed only a few days of delay), but do not matter the effectiveness and the economicity of the measures (i.e. their contents). Here, the average Italian - the worker, the Maria sciura - struggle to catch them and you can take them by the nose. So I can think of Sciascia's words when he looked at the communists, with whom he walked a piece of the road, who managed to sell the junk for gold. Gold is therefore the Italicum, which contains those same anomalies and criticalities of the Porcellum, which represented the reasons of importance and annihilation by the Constitutional Court: a strong prize of majority and no preference, with the addition of barrier thresholds a little anti-democratic, from North Korea, which damage the principle of representativeness provided by the Constitution. It is gold also the Delrio bill, which - in this way it is sold - will allow savings of resources, increase of services and, above all - to what Renzi says, and will say this evening - the elimination of the Provinces and therefore of many armchairs of politicians maintained by the Italians. Here the Provinces become the scapegoat to be sacrificed for the demagogic and anti-political wave that scourges Italy, a feeling that Prime Minister Renzi rides skillfully. In the opinion of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, the Renzi Government, after that Letta from which the bill was born, and similarly to the Monti Government that has been rejected by the Consulta as well as two decree-laws, is putting in place irrational and, above all, unconstitutional legislative intervention that emptys the Provinces and that aims to entrust to these agencies only functions of political direction and coordination, without counting the birth of a number of metropolitan cities greater than those existing in Europe. After that in the House of Deputies, the discussion and the changes made to the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee confirmed a confused measure, with entangled rules, which does not simplify, not deburocratic, but rather increases the confusion about the functions and management of services at local level, creating new problems for businesses and citizens, which you should think about. The courage to intervene to resolve the immediate impact of the problems has been lacking: the increase in costs resulting from implementation and the chaos over the essential services the delivery of which is left to complicated agreements and conventions between institutions. It then completely skips any certainty about the responsibilities of the local institutions with regard to their work. Yet legal experts unanimously judged the text unconstitutional. Not to mention the Court of Auditors' study indicating the real increases in expenditure that this rule will produce, against derisory savings and all to be demonstrated. Also the research conducted by the Bocconi University in December 2011 has evidenced how the transfer of functions from the Provinces to the Municipalities, also constituted in Unions, does not improve the efficiency of the system. Subjects all unheard of by the Government that, indeed, not only did not face the very serious gap opened by the illegitimate commissioners of the Provinces following the publication of the judgment of the Court, but also proposed in the law of stability (during the Letta Government) the extension of the existing commissionerial agencies, thus preventing the re-election of the governing bodies of the Provinces by the citizens. It seems to me that, in terms of savings, the 5th Budget Committee has also raised many concerns about the text, so much so that President Azzollini, half an hour ago, came to propose amendments to the text on which trust was placed, demonstrating that this is a mess, the confirmation of a great mess. The North League has always been convinced that the right path, capable on the one hand of rationalising public spending with the reorganization of local territorial authorities and, on the other hand, of not paralyzing the country had to be the start of a constitutional reform that attributed to the responsibility of the individual regions the task of regulating the birth of a new form of association for the exercise of the functions of government of wide area, taking into account the particular connotations of its territory, but with first-level elections, that is, with the election of the governing bodies by the citizens, which is the ABC of democracy. The lack of universal suffrage is unacceptable to us. We would also like to point out that constitutional reform had to go through the abolition of all intermediate bodies, such as mountain communities, consortia and park bodies, that is, that undergrowth of bodies outside the control of citizens but functional, many times, to the logic of party secretariats. We are talking about about about 7,000 entities whose competences could be removed and given to the Provinces achieving a considerable saving (this yes). No, you don't. Renzi has drawn up a right and has even wanted to put trust and the use of trust - I stress - is related to a bill, not to a decree-law with expiration deadlines. This appeal to trust attests to the government's failure. Renzi puts trust because he doesn't have the majority. That's the truth. It's not reform. This bill is just a big mess, the result of this executive's incompetence, which is proving to be able to do only two things: great announcements, which, however, remain empty words, and to put their hands in the pockets of honest citizens. It is the case of TASI and TARI, which are certainties, beyond the empty words. I wanted to make three points. The first is that Minister Boschi, this morning, with confidence, confirmed and perjured that the text would be the same as the one that was fired by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have seen the changes proposed by President Azzollini, but another thing that I want to highlight is that the extension of the outgoing President and Provincial Councils, which the text issued by the Commission fixed at 31 December 2014, becomes only the last deadline, and these extensions can simply be brought to a close. The second is that Renzi has been quick to say yesterday, as many of my previous colleagues have said, that with this reform 3,000 politicians will stop receiving an allowance from the Italians, but he has looked very carefully - as I say as other colleagues have said - from saying that there will be 26,386 advisers and 5.082 extra city councilmen: an armchair, people who will still receive an allowance; and, beyond the invariance of expenditure, I quote the report of the Budget Commission, which states: "It is not clear that the compensation mechanism is appropriate to guarantee the invariance of expenditure in relation to the increase of advisers and city councilors." The mystification is therefore confirmed. The third, finally, is that the North League on the game of the reforms, the Provinces and the Delrio bill, at local level as well as at national level, has always had one face, which - I must emphasize it absolutely - has not happened for the parties of the majority, especially those of the New Right Center, that up to a month and a half ago saw authoritative national representatives declare themselves against the delirium (in fact, excuse: "The Delrio"). But everyone knows they can change their minds. Who knows what embarrassment those local administrators, Mayors and Presidents of the Province of the New Right Centro and of the Democratic Party, who until a few days ago declared that Delrio was a crap to be countered and rejected, even through official acts, as happened with an agenda approved by a very large majority in the Province of Lecco. These local administrators will have to eat a bitter bite, and for them it will be embarrassing to justify themselves in front of the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u115	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representative of the Government, in an almost empty Chamber (which I believe is representative of how this umpteenth expropriation of the Senate and Parliament in general of the contribution they should make to legislative acts), I rise to reiterate here again, today, concepts that I have expressed on other occasions. I would like to say that I would have found a tangible sign of a break, of a real change, of a change of pace, announced several times and very much hoped for, if today in this House we had made clear the overcoming of that policy of announcements that characterized the action of the last governments, and I would have hoped that today we had finally begun to deal a little more with the substance of the measures, and not with the form. Personally I am not opposed to redesigning the architecture and geography of the system of local autonomy, indeed I have always been of the idea that the time has come to redesign that geography, starting precisely by reviewing the role and presence of the provincial body, which in recent years has always been tightened between the functions exercised by the regions and the functions exercised by the Parliament and the Government. But I am certainly not in favour of the measure that is being put to the vote today, which, in my opinion, is not standing either because of the way it was generated, or because of the substance it proposes: it is a legislative measure put together too superficially to respond to a slogan. I hope that there will not be the same superficiality when we have to deal with the measures that will have to examine the so-called and so-called overcoming of perfect bicameralism. It is a measure that intervenes in part and disorderly, without providing adequate solutions to the inefficiencies and the high level of bureaucracy accumulated over the years, because the redesign of institutional geography had to have the objective to resolve the inefficiencies and bureaucracy that has accumulated this year, the doubts about who has to do what, and to make sure that the things to do and the functions to be carried out are realized quickly and with greater certainty. To this must be added, as some of my colleagues in the Democratic Party say, that I understand that they must defend this measure as a party, that the much-warned savings - which the Prime Minister, yesterday, also, announced - will sadly remain unreachable. Of the sumptuous billion euros of savings, once the measure was put into effect for how it was conceived in the House, according to reliable assessments by not only the UPI, one could count on an economy not exceeding 100 million. On the other hand, if we look carefully at the indications that come from today's major amendment, as the Budget Commission has also pointed out, I do not think it is wrong even to expect an increase in costs. The President-in-Office of the Council just yesterday focused - and focused the attention of the media and the Network - on the announcement that 3,000 institutional posts, 3,000 elected, will be taken out, with a logic that seems to follow the elimination of the elected as a theme to make the institutions work better. Many estimates indicate, however, from a reading of the decree and the maxi amendment, that the posts will increase a lot, and this will happen going against an idea that has been interpreted until a few months ago to make more efficient especially the municipal administrations with a number of inhabitants less than 10,000. Instead, I believe that the picture is disturbing because the paradox seems to emerge that the real objective of the government seems to be to eliminate the instrument of democracy, of the elected, not of the armchairs; and in a democracy that wants to remain worthy of this name is unthinkable, it is untenable for me that the institutional tasks are carried out more and more not as a result of democracy by universal suffrage, but as a result of the second level of people who are called to play a role not because elected by the people, but because they are indicated, and even more so in a situation like this, which seems to increase the number of positions. Then, I believe that if things had gone differently and the way followed by the Government had been that of greater thought and sharing in order to try to do well, not to do quickly, I would not have gone back and, on the contrary, I would have been happy to bring my contribution, convinced as I am of the elimination of the Provinces. But things are not proceeding according to this verse. It is not at all true that we have changed towards: I see a very hasty, uncertain, disorganised and - to put it bluntly - a way of proceeding that we find everything in the current maxi amendment that is now in the vote here in the Senate. The government representative, without too many words, reading a simple sheet that was given to him as a speech, came here today and told us that he had to liquidate a measure without worrying about the effects. It seems that the Government wants to take the measure away from the parliamentary debate in order to prevent the shortcomings and the strong criticalities that it brings with it being highlighted. I had the hope that the season of governments making trustworthy laws would be over, including by expropriating Parliament from its role, but I was obviously mistaken. I was hoping that the government would return to the central management of the state and its administration and that the legislative initiative would be returned to Parliament again. These daily forcings and the use of trust issues, in complete continuity with the past, with a majority that, although with some extra stomachache, does not deviate from that of the previous Executive, make it impossible, not only our vote in favour, but also our contribution. To those who proclaim that the changes must have the objective of widening the majorities, I say that today a double opportunity has been missed: the opportunity to change really has been missed, but above all the opportunity has been missed to accept the contribution of all those political forces that are to modify the geography of our institutions. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u117	I greet the students and the teachers of the college "Villoresi San Giuseppe" in Monza, who are attending our work in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u118	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u119	Mr President, when the President-in-Office of the Council came to this House and carried out his programme by saying 'just the bureaucracy' and by promoting cuts in the cost of politics and dual positions, in fact in public opinion some interest has been taken up, and there have been many expectations. Looking back to the saying of my land that "beautiful weather" is seen from the morning, I believe we will expect storms and storms. As my colleague Mr Arrigoni has said, from the first trust we note that we increase by 5.082 city councilors and 26,386 city councilors and, above all, we bring from 5,000 to 15,000 the number of incompatibilitys for the double position between parliamentarians - congressman, senator or European Parliamentarian - and mayor of cities (one speaks of a number of 7,390 municipalities that can have a senator, a deputy or a MEP elected to the office of Mayor). So much for simplification! So much for those who have come to this House and have behaved diametrically opposed to what we have heard in this House. To someone like me, who was incompatible with an candidacy for Mayor of the Municipality of Aulla, who has about 13,000 inhabitants, he may have done a favor, because I will run and finally rip the City from the Democratic Party. But it is not fair, because in 2011 the then President of the Council Silvio Berlusconi I believe had the courage to cancel 260,000 city councilors and 50,000 councilors and to fix the incompatibility between congressman, senator or MEP and Mayor of Municipalities (the decree referred to all municipalities, then in the conversion the limit of 5,000 inhabitants was set). Therefore, it is spontaneous to say: St. Silvio, think about it, because, in fact, in concreteness, it was always those Governments who maintained the commitment of simplification and savings, and not these, who want to make us understand that they are ready to cut and cut, but that, in fact, they do not cut anything. But why, I wonder? Yet Renzi became the mayor and compared himself with his city councilmen and, therefore, he had the opportunity to understand where to be able to cut. But between saying and doing passes by the sea, and it is seen that he has been confronted little, because they tell me that he was the most absentist mayor in Italy and that he has hardly ever participated in the meetings of the City Council. I would not want him to, coming to the Senate to say that his goal is to cut the costs of politics, to cut off the branch on whose top he sits and make a thud so that he doesn't even eat panettone. Mr President, I believe that, if we see good weather from the morning, with this confidence, Renzi is failing all the promises, at least with regard to the costs of politics and simplification. The point, in fact, is not so much the increase of 26,000 city councillors, but it concerns all the expenses of structure, logistics, notification and more congested than those that should be simplifications. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one consideration. The only time I attended a meeting of the 1st Commission to listen to the hearing of the representatives of the Court of Auditors, I heard that, with the metropolitan cities and the Unions of Municipalities, there will be a significant increase (consistent, according to their definition) in the centres of expenditure, with negative effects on public expenditure. You don't save anything, then, but you spend and spend, without knowing where we're going to end up. This first confidence, therefore, shows what this President of the Council, who is a prima donna, is worth, but a woman is not. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u120	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u121	Mr President, undersecretary Bressa is certainly a person with knowledge of these issues, which he has dealt with at various stages of his political life. It is regrettable that Mr Boschi is not present and that, in addition to his relations with Parliament, he is also responsible for reforms, because, from what I understand, he has a lot of practice to do. I am not talking about the Minister for Regional Affairs, whose competence in the branch has not yet been tested. It would have been respectful that today, for this important bill, he had honored the Senate of his presence, although he understood that he went as a backdrop to the visit of the President of the Council to the school in Scalea. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I will vote strongly against the government's confidence, because I do not share its modus operandi, and not just because I do not agree with this bill. We must also make it clear to the outside world that it is not true, as Renzi said, that with this measure 3,000 chairs and positions are cut: not so much and not only for the case concerning the Municipal Councils of the minor centres, where, however, we retouched an intervention to contain the numbers that had probably been too drastic. The overall figure is therefore not that reported by Renzi. But that Renzi doesn't say true things, as far as I'm concerned, it's a certainty, and so I'm not surprised. The problem is the disorder that is created, because it is not true that the Provinces are abolished. We have been saying this for a long time, clearly, and we repeat it. In fact, institutions are created with uncertain conformation and the country is deprived of a direct democracy. The paradox is that the blocked lists have been contested and the impossibility of choosing candidates, with a battle at times perhaps also acceptable. It was however a controversial theme, but those blocked lists, moreover, were invented in Tuscany by the left and not by others. The law, then, President Calderoli, was quite different, and others changed it for the worse. I remember Ciampi's intervention on the regional awards to the Senate: a constitutional castronery, because the Court's ruling writes and says so. At the time, however, Ciampi was considered a kind of Savior of the Homeland for having introduced, with the moral suasion, a modification that created many problems. So, the law was different, but now that law is gone. Or rather, we'll have to do another one, because now there's nothing. We are a strange country, we are worse than Syria and Ukraine, because another consideration that must be made to the country, through the Senate, is that at this moment we have no electoral law. It is not true that there is the law that comes from the judgment of the Court, because, assuming that for the House the precedent of the law of 1992 can be resumed (the only time it was voted with the system of single preference), the Senate has never had an electoral law with the system of preferences. Therefore, if, for a democratic need, one should go to vote, and a free country must always have this theoretical possibility (I do not invoke it, but it is like the extinguisher behind the glass: there must be and must be working, with the card with the date of the revision), we, who should have an electoral law, but at this moment we do not have it, because for the Senate a law with preferences is not and should be written, today we are unable to vote, what is a very serious vulnus for a free and democratic country, while we worry, rightly, about other countries where the problem of freedom and democracy is certainly much more dramatic than in Italy. So, I see mess, because you make a fake Province reform. This Delrio law is an obnoxious, a scam and establishes confused entities. As I said before, if, on the one hand, the blocked lists, which are voted by the entire electoral body, which might or may not be appreciated, are contested, we will go and have intermediate bodies elected by a group of Mayors, administrators, not by the electoral body. So we have similar probities, no people, so the apparatus and the bureaucracy remain, but the electoral body is missing. We do not have a functioning electoral law, so if this country had the need to vote - theoretical, which, I repeat, I do not invoke: I just make one observation - it could not do so. So now we are a country that no longer has the people's access to the choices, because for Parliament there is no electoral law, at least for the Senate, which is true that it must be abolished, but at the moment it still exists, and for the Provinces we will have these structures elected by some elected, but not by the citizens. So, you're fooling the population. Other will be the constitutional reform that will be provided by the Constitution - the only correct way - the Provinces, of which at that point they will really be able to do without it. Therefore, we denounce the confusion, which appeared today also in the impriety of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and relations with Parliament. I tremble thinking of the electoral law, President Calderoli, faced by a minister who had to speak three times to explain that he put trust and on what, an elementary exercise: it is like making the "a" or "a" on the board at elementary schools. I am concerned, because the management of the Assemblies is important in a democracy. Experience, knowledge of facts and non improvisation are essential requirements for dealing with complex issues. God will see what happens. It's not like they're gonna get up on the electoral law and say, Let's put our trust in it. About what text? With Azzolini's opinion or without it? Smooth, gassed, or Ferrarelle? Envelope 1, 2 or 3? It is not the wheel of fortune to govern the country, my friends! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Zin]] There it could be done in a simpler way. We'll see. So we vote no to trust. On the contrary, trust must come, because as far as I am concerned it also allows misunderstandings to be dissolved. By the way, it was said that we should have done the electoral law first. Now the electoral law is no longer urgent: we must reform the Senate. Which one you don't know. Before he proposed the "Senato party," from the parties to the party, in the sense of refreshment. Of course, one hundred mayors, twenty regional representatives and twenty-one friends of the President pro tempore of the Republic, all in the Senate. They say, "So much is not paid." So, a party, an invitation to this palace. There was only the dilemma of which of these 140 lords brought the canapés, perhaps the twenty-one appointed by the President of the Republic by grace received. Palazzo Madama as a room for events and meetings; on the other hand, how many historic palaces of Rome have been transformed into places where weddings, communions and various events are celebrated for a fee? But that formula doesn't exist anymore! It was supposed to be approved in February, I don't remember which day. Renzi said: In February this, in March that, in April that other one is: of 28 there is one, all the others have 31 and we missed the schedule of Matthew Renzi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Zin]] I don't remember what it is anymore. February is over, March almost and I do not know what will be the reform of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution, because now we must do together, which perhaps also logical, but on which text we do not know. I am pleased, colleagues in the Democratic Party, that you are holding a meeting on Friday, as we will do on the same day, but it is not enough for Renzi to meet with the PD: it is a debate to be held in Parliament. I am very strict towards the Senate, some colleagues accuse me of being even too monocameralist, but whatever the thesis prevails, it will have to be serious. We have already seen that there is a Renzi 2 that has now opened to the territories. We'll see what happens. Fortunately, this Senate, on the right, in the centre and on the left, has adequate skills to do a serious job on these subjects; and the boys will learn. I saw that a seminar was organized in the House by some foundations (the one of President Violante, the Astrid Foundation and others); I was told that some young ministers were there with pen, pencil and paper and that they learned something from authoritative constitutionalists and some old foxes, perhaps even a little worn out (I do not speak of parliamentarians present, of course, I do not want to offend anyone: but all these have given their contribution). This debut of Delrio worries us, because there are too many issues in line: Title V, Senate reform, electoral law and everything else you have to do (and you have to do, because the country is late); I think it starts badly. There is a non-reform, such as the one we are voting on (we will vote against confidence, so we are not responsible for this choice); there is a reorder of the state, which is changed overnight: where did the twenty-one who appointed the President of the Republic end up? They had already bought the shakes and chestnuts, because it had to be done in February; then carnival passed. Now they're gonna buy the dove for the party, and then maybe they're gonna update all their cotillons. Let's be serious, dear friends. That is what I would like to say in conclusion, Mr Calderoli. This bill isn't good. It's a joke. The Provinces will remain; the people will not be there. The electoral law was passed by a branch of Parliament and we accepted the change of rules all of a sudden. The new electoral law does not apply to the Senate, but it still exists. I would even like to abolish it, but as long as it is there, it should have a rule to be elected. There's no fire extinguisher today. We don't have a government up to it. I made the exception of Mr Bressa, of whom I almost never shared the thesis, but I must acknowledge that at least he knows what he is talking about. Use a little of your experience to update your direct superiors, whether men or women. Good job! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u122	Senator Gasparri, single-cameraist you don't, eh! Monocamera, yes, but monocamera, I never expected that. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u125	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, we have heard so many speeches on these issues, of so many people who have tried hard, of people and personalities who have been part of this Senate for so many years. I have only been a member of this House for a year, but I have been through my life as part of a form of civil volunteering (I want to define it that way, because it is so), having been the city councilman, the city councilman, the mayor and also the provincial councilman. Which leads me to feel very annoying about so many things that have been said, even authoritatively, compared to all this. (16.58) (Susta followed). I wonder whether it is appropriate to degrade or in some way insult and degenerate the people who have dedicated themselves to this form of civil volunteering. I call it that because, in the years when I was a provincial councillor, on average in my Province there was a provincial council every month; if we got to take 400 euros per year of allowances it was so much, except then to be equated, in many newspaper articles, with the politicians (who then maybe were the ones in this House), who earned much more. Therefore, I believe that the time has come, at a time when we are addressing the issue of the reform of the architecture of the State, to give back dignity to those who apply, from the small town hall to the Parliament of the Republic, certainly putting the problem of costs, but especially worrying about the quality of the work that we are going to do within the institutions. By paradox, there is a very simple way to eliminate the costs of politics: to rely on a dictator, who surrounds himself with some officials, so solve the problem for everyone. I therefore did not like the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, as he presented this reform and as he is presenting the reform of the Senate. I understand that we must use a language that people understand, but there are many ways to draw a state architecture that is consistent with republican aims, that reduces politicians and Members of Parliament (even significantly), but that does not delete that idea of subsidiarity that is functional to the idea of republican democracy that the Constitution gives us and that is also within the best history of the civil evolution of democratic Italy. I am not shocked, indeed I agree with the choice made by the legislator with this measure regarding the indirect election of the Provinces; I agree, because in our history the Provinces have been conceived and realized as a decentralised body of a central power that derived from the projection of the history of the State Sabaudo on the Constitution of united Italy, first with the Albertine Statute and then with this statute; today, instead, with the present bill, the Provinces return to being the governing bodies of the vast area, emanation of the Municipalities, which are really (I do not want to evoke Tocqueville when he said that everything else was born from men, but the Municipalities are born from God) those from which the new organization of the State is born in the logic of subsidiarity. As the undersecretary Bressa recalled, the vast area is that space that cannot have competences that today are attributable to the Municipalities or the Regions, because they are attributable only to those who can govern the services that are not simply attributable to the Municipalities or the Regions. The problem therefore is not in the institutional framework that this measure has married, in the design of indirect election. We have voted indirectly on mountain communities for forty years; we have voted indirectly on many consortia that affect people's lives, from social and welfare associations to reclamation consortia, which are indirect bodies; we have voted for years on the assemblies of mayors of local health companies, which are the governing, control and planning body of health care, which we know how much it affects in the state budget (much more than the Provinces). We must not therefore be scandalized if the municipalities re-appropriate the government of the vast area through an instrument that is born from them and to which some specific competences are entrusted, perhaps even abolishing, especially in the small and medium Provinces, those overlaps between the capital municipalities, the large municipalities and the Province agency, which in fact allowed the political professionals to proliferate, but in the end without giving adequate services. This is not the limit of the draft law under consideration, which we shall vote on because it is closely linked to the government's trust. But if the centrality of the municipality is positive, the non-proliferation of the metropolitan cities (which essentially remain those conceived in law n. 142 of 1990) and it is positive that for the first time we do not add other bodies, because we have identified new needs that the evolution of the civil and economic history of the country gives us (so finally we stop to simplify something), however, we could certainly take this opportunity already to give the regions the competence to redesign within them the governing bodies of the vast area, an overall revisitation in the light of the criterion of the vast area. This criterion, which does not coincide with the current Provinces, has been sacrificed for the maintenance of the latter (more than one hundred), dismantling what was positive in the decree-law of the Monti Government, that is, the reduction of the number of Provinces. In this measure there has also been little incisiveness in the rules that require the reorganization of the peripheral offices of the State. There is only one too general reference from this point of view. In short, there are some critical issues that we cannot fail to see within this measure, but contesting it at its root in the name of democracy is wrong, because it restores the Provinces to the owners of the fundamental function of the government of the territory, that is, the Municipalities. Rather, we must seize the opportunity of this debate and also of the announcement of a reform of Title V and of bicameralism, also linked to the reform of the electoral law, to question what model of state we want and to have a debate on the new intermediate body, on the vast area body that, I repeat, cannot coincide with these provinces that do not represent it. I am thinking of my region: in order to deal with problems such as waste, transport, great traffic, we must put together at least four provinces, which shows that these territorial authorities cannot govern the vast area. However, if we tackle this issue, we cannot fail to address that of the Regions. When I hear so heavily attacking the Provinces without going to put my finger where uncontrolled public spending really has been generated, as happened in the Regions, I believe that we are not making a contribution to the debate on the new institutional architecture of the Republic, but we are really using only pretexts to reject a measure that however represents a step forward and deserves our vote in favour and, with it, a vote of confidence to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u128	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law was born after the presentation of rules contained in two decrees-laws that between 2011 and 2012 had ordered the reordering of the Provinces and the establishment of the metropolitan cities and that the Constitutional Court, as is well known, declared illegitimate by judgment No 220 of 2013. For the Constitutional Court, in fact, to act on the essential components of the framing of the local authorities' order, by their nature governed by laws intended to last over time and meeting long-term social and institutional needs, it is apparent that - I quote - it is incompatible, on the logical and legal level, with the constitutional dictation, being a radical transformation of the whole system, on which a wide debate in political and doctrinal fora is opened for some time, and that certainly does not arise, in its entirety and complexity, from a "case of extraordinary necessity and urgency." This is the basis for the draft law on which we are voting for the government today. The work of the rapporteur and the government in the Commission has aimed at taking account of the different political orientations in order to reach a text that is more shared and the rapporteur's amendments have in fact accepted many of the comments made in the debate in the Commission and some of the proposals made by the opposition groups themselves. An example is the fact that the number of Metropolitan Cities has been reported to nine, while in the text from the House these were as many as 18 and I remember that there are less than 20 metropolitan Cities throughout Europe. The changes made by the 1st Senate Commission have improved the regulatory framework for municipalities, as the President of the ANCI said that the reform strengthens the municipalities by making them the hub of the local institutional system. However, the contradictions in this draft law remain different and I would like to present them in a schematic way. It would have been appropriate that the constitutional bill announced by the Government for the reform of Title V and the consequent abolition of the Provinces had preceded and not followed the provisions we are debating today. The Court of Auditors, during its hearing at the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs, stated that as far as the savings expected in the immediate future are concerned, actually quantifiable savings are limited, while it is difficult to believe that such a complex reorganisation is unproductive of costs. With regard to the theme "metropolitan cities and provinces," the activation of the metropolitan cities is strongly linked to the possibility, by the legislator, to demonstrate that as many provinces have been symmetrically cut. In fact, the configuration of the Metropolitan Cities is basically that of a Province under another name, both with the difference of some fundamental function in addition. It is precisely, however, on the functions, rather than on the territorial dimension that the legislator should have aimed. The impression for the truth is of a drawing that in part remains unfinished, I could say to the embryonic state, but it gives a sign of change. In this sense, the attempt to activate the metropolitan cities appears conditioned by the complex of the reorder of the Provinces, as evidenced by the critical element of the norm itself: the substantial overlap of the metropolitan cities with the suppressed Provinces. Moreover, as noted by the Senate Budget Service, in the case of only partial takeover of the Metropolitan Cities to the Provinces (Article 3, paragraph 9) (...) the criteria for repartition of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact between the successor institutions are not entirely clear. In particular, it is no longer foreseen that by decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance (...) the procedures for repartitioning the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact previously assigned to the Provinces among the successor entities shall be governed. According to the Budget Service, the measure does not clarify whether the duplication of administrative apparatuses is likely to absorb resources otherwise marketable to the exercise of functions and therefore, even if it has been inserted in paragraph 9 of Article 3 a clause of financial invariance and while providing for the obligation for the Province to make use of the offices of the Metropolitan City that carry out the functions of administration and control and the division of assets, staff and resources between the two institutions, it does not seem possible to exclude that the duplication of the institutions can result in increases in expenditure. Mr President, we are fully aware and in agreement, as part of the Government, that we need a truly reformist policy, which is genuinely innovative, which reduces the costs and burdens of institutional representation. Precisely, for these reasons, we would have liked an even more incisive measure, without those critical issues however present in the draft law in question. Of course, the urgency of reaching a conclusion quickly in this House prevents the corrective measures that the senators could certainly have offered. (17.12) (Romano followed). Our Group is loyally placed in a position of felt responsibility, which on the one hand leads us to emphasize inconsistencies and criticalities, on the other it opens to trust. Trust in a legislature that is truly constituent, supported on the basis of great agreements, supported by the full and convinced involvement of all in equal dignity and responsibility. Trust in a Government that, recently established, needs a collegiate partnership in terms of planning and legislative production. In short, a project that is truly shared ex ante, not ex post, also concrete antidote to dissent, often rightly motivated and rationally founded. I just recalled that the guiding principle of our Group is the concrete reformism and respect for constitutional and economic and financial balances. Any legislative measure that consistently pursues these aims is welcome, I would say even more desirable. We are aware that good intentions are not always supported by subsequent acts. However, I also called for confidence - the institution of trust - in a shared lawmaking process, as well as for a policy that really looks to the future. For these arguments and final reasons, without forgetting the critical issues that I put to the attention of the Assembly, on behalf of the For Italy Group we express and anticipate the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u131	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I am speaking after two majority leaders who seem to me to have barely managed to curb the enthusiasm for giving their vote of confidence to this measure. I have seen them rather embarrassed in wanting to bind - I think expressly - the will to give the text approval to the will to give confidence to the government they support as a majority. It almost seems to me to live, Mr President, a day - to paraphrase a well-known film of the past - of ordinary madness in our Senate. We have listened to the various parts of our House, and there has been a strong consideration from all sides - as has been the case at other meetings in the past - of the need to modernise our institutional structures; there has also been a reforming will on the part of the Provinces; from all sides ideas and proposals have come for reform, for change, for the abolition of the Provinces, for their transformation. We always say that our goal is to make the services of the sovereign citizen we represent always better and greater. If the objective is then the citizen, his well-being and a good organization of the institutions so that they can meet these needs, what does everything we are doing have to do with it? What does a majority, or rather a government, have to do with the question of trusting a reordering order that has, as a specific interest, to give the best to the citizen? What does it have to do with a government that requires its majority to take its word for it, to give it confidence because that measure is considered important by it. Dear friends of the majority, you are the object of trust. Trust is set against you. Trust lies in the fear of the government that you may make changes. Yes, because yesterday we were close, with a few fewer votes in the Commission and with the constitutional prejudices that did not pass only by three votes. This naughty majority did not understand well that President Renzi and his Government need propaganda to survive. Perhaps this majority has not understood well that we need to support these slogans. But this is lying publicity, dear friends. It's lying publicity. What do we do tonight? Can it be said that the Provinces, the ferocious Provinces, the Provinces that eat money, the bad Provinces have been abolished? No, nothing is abolished today. Someone might want to change the name, but what is it? Is it a horror movie where there are Transformers who leave one way and arrive in another? Be careful that, when there are Transformers, the final form is sometimes much uglier and bader than the initial one (I quote Transformers because I was forced to see cartoons with my son). But it is. At the time when the Prime Minister - and he has done well - went to Europe to say that one of the elements of the credibility of Italy today is worn out, is played precisely on institutional reforms, we in Europe what image do we give of institutional reforms? Let's get a brush and paint the facade? What? Six constitutionalists in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - I repeat six constitutionalists - of the different schools and of the various political sympathies have all said that this bill presents profiles of insane inconstitutionality and that it lends itself, not the next but a few hours after its publication, to be the subject of a myriad of appeals, which will arrive on time. Behind an institution that is being modified, how many interests, how many services, how many contracts and the issues expected! All this we will have achieved for the benefit of the legal order to make hundreds and thousands of cases and appeals: and the sovereign citizen, in this framework of the Government, where is he? The service that we want to render to the citizen in what is noun, in this heroic action of the request for trust today here in the Senate? It is a story of ordinary folly, Mr Undersecretary, still wanting to argue that there would be a saving in expenditure, in front of the Court of Auditors which says that this is not the case, and wanting to argue that this is the reform road, in front of constitutionalists who say that this is not the case: to whom do you respond when you take government action? To whom do the senators of the majority respond when they are called to trust a blind action, which has not admitted a further discussion? Because this happened: last night the general debate would have ended and today we would have moved on to the amendments. Instead, the government said "No": there is no discussion of the amendments. The text cannot be improved. Mr Undersecretary, it cannot be improved simply by the fact that it is really poor, by a lack of institutional vision and by a lack of absolute soul! You do not know and do not even imagine what the vast area government is or what it means to give services to the more than 8,000 cities of Italy (which are a myriad). This is Italy, Italy of the bell towers, which has found forms of connection in the vast area. We agree, we must abolish the Provinces and identify the tools of the government of the vast area: and when has a good family father ever been seen to eliminate something from his own home without having prepared for his own loved ones something replacement that can give the same service in the context of his family? You imagined closing something and you can't say what's in its place. When next September, like every year, the schools will reopen, what will become of the services? As every day, as every morning, our boys and our workers will travel the provincial roads and, as always, we will need the certification of the quality of our environment. But you did not talk about all this: Mr Boschi came here, laconica, to say a few words and, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, he did not even ask you too much, but perhaps it is not necessary. He hastily delivered here a card - which, by the way, needed some correction - saying: "Give us confidence" and you, deaf and blind, must give this confidence, because - as I have just heard from a majority leader - there is the whole soul of the reformer path in this trust. I will try to look with the eyes of a child, therefore of fantasy, this world that opened before me, after the statement of the Roman leader: from today's vote of confidence this reformer opening opens. But if this is the beginning of the reform process, Mr Calderoli, the chills come, and this time we will have to resort not to ordinary madness, but to Spielberg: this is a horror film. This is not how reforms are done, friends of the majority! [[Applause from the LAG, M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Zin and Bruni.]] We want to participate in the reforms in a constructive spirit, we have told you, because we are not rigid and blind opposition to them, but we are here, Italian representatives of the Italian people, for their sake. But if this is the Renzi method, it is not for us! This is not a way, this is not a time and, above all, this is not a substance: do not venture beyond propaganda on institutional reforms, which are serious, and above all stop playing the young institutional alchemist, who hints at trying a reform, observes the reactions, and makes another. No, reforms are serious. We all have a responsibility to modernise the country. It belongs to all of us, and we're not gonna subtract. No one will escape, but with great seriousness and above all with the ability to have an organic vision of what the State is but, above all, of what sovereign citizens are, to whom we always, with honor and dedication, owe an answer. We will therefore vote against confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups and Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u134	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Bressa, the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE will vote for the government. First of all, we welcome the fact that the draft law before us has found a solution which allows us not to renew the provincial bodies, which have already been commissariats, which will also have positive effects on the reduction of public expenditure. With this measure, the Renzi Government maintains what is promised to its citizens. Failure to approve this draft law would mean failure to follow the many announcements and words and would constitute a further loss of credibility for the institutions and for politics. The use of a vote of confidence, given the scale of the amendments, was, therefore, an obligatory choice, which we agree with. We also consider it positive that the Government preferred to regulate the matter through a draft law, without recourse to the decree of urgency, respecting the warnings of recent constitutional jurisprudence in the matter of limits to the use of decree-laws by the Government, especially when it comes to legal reforms. Obviously, this measure is to be considered as a mere bridge solution, pending the reform of the Senate and the reform of Title V of the Constitution. In this regard, I would like to stress that the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE strongly hopes that the process of the reforms announced will continue swiftly and smoothly. This would be a strong signal of policy towards citizens. [[Applause from Senator Della Widow.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u137	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi (who is not here today), Mr Delrio (who gives the name to this measure, but who is not here), Mr Bressa, we denounce the attitude of your Government in this Chamber, which this morning authorised the imposition of a matter of unobtrusive trust on a text resulting from a major amendment that the Commissions and the Budget Commission, in particular, had not yet been able to see, without a technical report until the end and that even now we do not even know whether it will cover from the financial point of view all the costs envisaged. This is a very serious and damaging attitude to Parliament's prerogatives and oppositions. Let us remind you immediately, dear President Renzi, that we are still in a Republic, not in a monarchy, and that you, President of the Council, and your Ministers, respond to the country, to the citizens, not to the lobbying or party interests of your majority. Then there's more than a majority! It is a shame: the first measure of this Government is actually a failure. Put your trust, you have to say it, because you don't have the majority, that's the truth. There are also strong embarrassments among you to approve this text! It's not reform. This law is only a big mess, the result of the incompetence of this executive who is proving to be able to do only two things: great announcements, which however remain empty words, and increase taxes to fish resources, always in the same way and that is putting their hands in the pockets of honest citizens. He still doesn't see himself (this is the data) any difference between his Government, President Renzi, and that Letta and that Monti. The only thing you are interested in is bypassing Parliament by bringing home unnecessary and only demagogic reforms to sell a product that is just an election spot... COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Undersecretary! Bisinella (LN-Aut). I would ask for some attention from the representative of the government, always respecting parliamentary democracy and oppositions. An electoral ad - I said - that does not do the good of the country. It's just a bluff. What interests you, in fact, is to concentrate competences on the Government and the state apparatuses, trampling the prerogatives of the autonomous, considered periphery at the mercy of stateism. The reality of the facts, examining and reading the text that comes out of it, is that it is an attempt, on the one hand, to distort by legislative means a constitutionally envisaged body, such as the Province, and on the other, to proceed to a stronger centralization of the power, in contempt of the competences of the Regions: think of the institution, in the way in which it is done here, of the metropolitan cities and of the metropolitan mayor, to the repeated extensions of the commissioners of the Provinces, to the transformation of the authorities of government of the territory into bodies of second level without the popular vote, without the system of direct election, therefore in contempt of popular sovereignty. This is very serious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Chaos is proof of this by the analysis of the text and by your embarrassing and embarrassing statements: you yourself, Undersecretary, admitted to the Commission that this is a transitional measure, designed to manage a temporary situation until the constitutional reform of the real abolition of the Provinces and the reorganization of the state architecture is carried out. A measure that you are now making in haste to prevent the Provinces from voting on the next administration, knowing well that this is a false problem, because the rule on how to proceed for the Provinces was already there, and is contained in the law of stability. This measure resolves nothing: first the Constitution must be revised. This is the legitimate seat: that of constitutional reforms, also from the point of view of respect for the sources of law, and if we really wanted to do so we could already have done so. We, in order to be extremely clear, do not have any corporate defence logic: we are for reforms, for the reduction of every spending centre, for the costs of politics, for the actual deburocratization of the state machine. What this would immediately give breath to businesses and families, which is expected from a serious Government (other than these propagandistic proclamations of yours), but in respect and, indeed, in the valorization of the autonomy and territories, which are the only wealth of this country and which you want to trample on instead. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We therefore denounce in a loud voice the uselessness of this bill. Your initiative wants to change the current structure of the representation of territorial communities, undermining the democratic maintenance of the system. You, Mr Renzi, sell it as a reform that eliminates the costs of politics, says you will recover the relationship between citizens and public administration, but that is not the case, and it must be said loud and clear to the citizens who listen to us. We see the text: the Provinces remain, the name remains, and the Metropolitan Cities overlap with them, which will have dimensions equal to the old Provinces, creating an inextricable forest of competences. The Court of Auditors speaks of organizational hypertrophy. Far from pursuing objectives of saving and simplifying public expenditure, this announced reform will instead lead to an increase in costs for the state's coffers and will eventually distort the current institutional structures. Let us first point out that in Europe, there are only two real metropolitan cities, and then there are metropolitan areas, of metropolitan government, but they are something else than what is being done here, where it seems they will be between 15 and 20, with an unnecessary overlap between institutional levels of government. There is no saving in flagrant expenditure, what is actually there is an increase in costs, also certified by the Court of Auditors and by all the regions that, already in the State-Regions Conference, have opposed the measure and that will certainly appeal to the Constitutional Court. Irisory is the supposed savings resulting from this reform and instead high the cost in terms of the transfer of staff, decision-making centers, capital goods, real estate, and who will pay? Moreover, there is no saving for another well-known consideration: you have increased the number of organizations and the number of councilors and city councilors, a pure contradiction, if we think of the whole forest of public leaders, who remain in the service, and well paid. You have increased the seats, evidently, to assign to your friends to please your friends. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The provincial organs remain, certainly without emoluments, but taking into account almost 26,000 more advisors, 5,000 more councilors, the possibility of the third term for the Mayors of the Municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, of all the organs and bodies planned in the area of the Metropolitan City, what will be the real cost? Apart from the fact that there is an overlap of functions and competences, what follows - and it must be said to the citizens - is that we no longer understand who will do what and, above all, who will pay. In short, from every point of view from which you look at it, it is a confusing text which is only to be withdrawn, not to be approved, but to be amended, colleagues; it only creates new uncertainties, partly because the absurd rules of the Internal Stability Pact have not changed them in the meantime. We consider it very serious that the opportunity, once again, has been missed to suppress prefectures; these are true sources of costs and waste. The administrative powers assigned to the prefect have already been partly absorbed by the functions of the State and the Regions. The prefect is in stark contrast to the state's decentralisation requirements for local self-government. For this reason, with a view to federal reform of the state and the distinction of competences between State, Regions and other local authorities, the prefect is a figure that must be abolished. And we, right from this weekend, propose with a collection of signatures a popular referendum on this. In conclusion, dear Renzi Government, what unites you with previous governments, apart from the fact that no one has voted for you, is the great demagogy, no substance, the contempt for democracy and the will of the people and the usual subjection to the Europe of bureaucrats. But the air is changing and you'd better pay a lot of attention to it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u140	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I must congratulate you on this: as a start, as the first confidence of the Renzi Government, I believe that a choice has been made on a measure which could represent a little 'the political figure with which this Government presents itself and how it is working in the first few months. Therefore, we cannot fail to congratulate you, because the debut on this first trust, from this point of view, is absolutely exemplary. Even the voids on the benches of the Government, excluding the presence of the undersecretary Bressa, are to demonstrate how much the Government itself, beyond the propaganda, on which I will return, clearly do not consider the one under consideration a measure so fundamental, a stratospheric reform, as it has been presented. It is not just a matter of institutional courtesy, which at this time would also be welcome, but not even the one who is regarded as the father of this measure, the Undersecretary of the Presidency of the Council of Delrio, had good taste and felt the institutional duty to be present today. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] You have put your trust - I would like to remind you very clearly - because at this first test your majority has proved to be unconvinced of the measure. As we have seen, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not only did the Government go under, but with some difficulty held in voting on the amendments themselves. So it is certainly not because of the urgency, it is not because of the fact that it is early, because you only discovered the urgency yesterday, because the measure has been in the Commission for three months, with a few hearings every now and then. You have discovered the urgency, and it is not the urgency - precisely - of the electoral deadlines, on which obviously one could think before, but it is that of the electoral campaign. Then we ask for confidence: there are problems of the majority, this is the truth, clear and precise, which is before everyone's eyes. But the urgency that you have attributed is the urgency of an election campaign, which has already begun for a long time: an election campaign for the European elections, which - alas, I am very sorry - I believe will be fought only with demagogy. In fact, today the President-in-Office of the Council opened the morning by saying that in a few hours we will be voting on the measure by which 3,000 politicians will go home. Of course, it is demagogy, and other examples could also be added. There will probably be a race on this issue in this election campaign. This gives the figure of this measure and also the reason why we discover urgency today and want to do propaganda by smuggling this measure as well as the elimination of the Provinces. We all know that this absolutely does not correspond to reality. As for this bill, I do not want to use the word reform (I will return to this aspect). In my view, the measure is first and foremost confused. If we go to re-read sentence 220 of the Constitutional Court, which declared the Monti decree illegitimate, we will find many parts that are absolutely corresponding and that can also be applied to this measure. As I said, the measure is completely confused and does not eliminate institutions, but - indeed - it adds. We have already counted 15 metropolitan cities, and others can be added. For twenty years there has been a debate on this issue, and I think we would have had the need, perhaps, to think a little more seriously about the Provinces, not only because the word cannot be deleted, but because in fact it is preserved. Large-area entities, the Provinces, are preserved. What is eliminated? Only the elections are eliminated. That is the point: direct election. I know that this is an issue that even within the majority - and that is why trust has been placed - many do not underestimate, because in the end the objective of all the measure is to move us more and more towards a system and a reorganization of the second level representation. Today has been coined by the undersecretary Bressa the territorial representation: I do not know if they are the mountains that fly alone. Representation has its legitimacy if it comes from the people, because this is democracy, and there is a direct election. Instead, we are moving more and more towards a system that is that of the second level. Ladies and gentlemen, this second level will produce a mere division operation, as has been the case with the current Commissioners. In fact, the commissioners of the Provinces have divided them: they are not prefect Commissioners, as is the case in other cases, but they are the remaining vice presidents or in any case the result of a division among the major forces. This will happen and will be implemented through the system and adoption of the second level. This is the serious political element of the measure, because it is not only limited to this bill, but we know perfectly well - it has already been announced - that it is the same path as for the Senate of the self-governments. This seems and is nouned as the real question, which here you want to go into the background. But that's the real question. This would impose serious reflection on everyone, because we are elected by the citizens. Especially at a time of crisis of representation, and also of crisis of democracy, do you think that the answer is to eliminate the elections, to make the splits, to make a list of nominees who draw up the lists of advisers and if they divide them among themselves? Perhaps this would have required all of us to think more seriously about how to regain a strong relationship with citizens, how to make citizens count, and not break them out. Here we are talking about a measure that you do not have the courage to call reform. We think that it was certainly necessary (because we have been talking about it for a long time) to put in place an organic reform of the entire local government system, because it is necessary and because you know better than I that the regions have exercised more and more not only legislative functions, but also administrative functions, acquiring competences and not giving delegations. There is therefore a need for reorganisation, not for institutional alchemy, but because these bodies are bodies of territorial government that have the first task of responding to the needs of citizens and providing services. They are the closest level to the citizens, and that is why there is a need for reform. We, on the other hand, approve transitional rules, for a reform that should be the real one (then we will vote on the urgent resolution for the draft Constitutional Review Act). And our concern is that this is also taking place for the announced constitutional reforms: we do not understand if we put together the reform of Title V and that for the Senate of the self-governments and what we want to do. There is no clear idea from the institutional point of view. As for the metropolitan cities, you know better than I that we should have made an even more modern reflection, but seriously, because in those areas, not only Italian but global, the majority of citizens are concentrated. In fact, this too will become a very complicated body to manage, bureaucratic and to create an overlap. Do not talk about cost savings: this measure will increase costs. The only costs you want to eliminate are those of democracy. Then you could do it first and propose the figure of the podestà: maybe podestà you don't like the word, but it could be a single manager, and so there would be even higher savings. The time has come for us to say enough about this way of proceeding, about this idea that is turning democracy upside down. We are all available on the reforms, but it should be discussed and not trusted. Instead, you want to proceed in this way because the key to your government is only that of demagogy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u141	A representation of students and teachers from the German-speaking Economic Technical Institute (Heinrich Kunter) in Bolzano and a representation of young students from the Istituto Missionarie della Fanciullezza (Missionary Institute) in Pesaro are present in the Chamber. To both representatives, we wish to extend our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u144	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of this measure and will give confidence to the Government with the certainty that, with this measure, we are celebrating today the start of a reform process regarding the planning of territorial autonomy and in the light of the revision of public expenditure, not so much and not only in nominal terms, but also in concrete terms, especially in the interests of citizens. Today we identify some important conceptual ideas, which will have to be the basis of the upcoming reform of Title V of the Constitution and the definitive and complex reinterpretation of institutional structures on the territory. In particular I stress that it is the first time that in a law appears the concept, moreover already started in fact also in some sectors of our country, the organizational autonomy of the state administrations in the territory with respect to the local branches and the dimension of the territorial autonomy. A concept of simplification at the level of local government is reiterated, of how administrations will have to act as interlocutors of citizens who increasingly aspire to greater proximity between them and representative institutions. With the concept of territorial homogeneity and that of achieving economies, the areas of competence of the individual institutions, renewed and more adapted to the social reality of the country, will be extended as far as possible. The process of rebuilding the dialogue relationship between public administration and citizens, which was timidly and partially initiated when we started talking about federalism, must find more courage and fulfilment in the forthcoming constitutional reforms. Today they finally see the light of the metropolitan cities, after more than twenty years, and also in this text with great effort, freeing themselves from the bonds of institutional corporatism of which they have so far been victims in the cradle. They will have to be designed to combine administrative and political responsibilities and responsibilities still existing in municipalities, provinces and regions, and perhaps in the not too distant future they will be able to break away from them more forcefully. The Regions themselves will have to realise their inadequacy to follow virtuous processes of providing services to citizens, not only because of the indeterminate nature of functions and competences, as enshrined in the wretched reform of Title V of the Constitution of 2001, but also and above all because of a dimensional inadequacy that has generated over time an unbearable proliferation of intermediate bodies and spending centres, absolutely no longer compatible with the proper use of public resources. The real revision of expenditure will therefore not be that of the free function allowance or the elimination of certain moments of assembly democracy, as for the provincial councils, but will be that of the radical decrease of the centers of expenditure, which will have to conform to a new concept of vast area. The Provinces today come out of this transitional measure with the same identity, but with a totally alternative governance model. Certainly this measure is to be considered a first positive step forward for the overall reinterpretation of the concept of the vast area, but to be adapted to the concepts of homogeneity and social coherence in a modern way and without being conditioned by administrative rigidities that, after 150 years of national unity, are now obsolete. Important points come from the articles on unions and mergers of the Municipalities, drawing a path that will not be that of the zeroing of the municipalities in a cultural key, but that of the amalgamation for the efficiency of the services, understood as the creation of new models of territorial development. In this context, it will also be inevitable to address issues such as those of public employment and participating societies, in short, the concept of a service to citizens that contributes and determines a true domestic and foreign competitiveness of the country. We therefore vote for the confidence of this measure, which is also the result of the active and constant contribution of the Ministers and Parliamentary Groups of the New Right Centre, considering it, despite its transitory nature, as the first step in the great scale of the reforms that we are going to rise with renewed enthusiasm. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u147	For your assurance, I also brought my personal chronometer. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government (as it is one), ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately you listen to us from outside (it is to you I am addressing), it has been years and years for the parties, the same parties sitting in this House, to say that they want to abolish the Provinces, but then the result is always nothing. In all the last election campaigns you have heard of the abolition of the Provinces; everyone agrees, but the fateful fact never happens. On May 14, 2013, just installed the Letta Government, the 5 Star Movement presents a constitutional bill that provides for the real abolition of the provinces, without if and without but. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Repeat: May 14, 2013. But Parliament does not blamefully ignore this bill and its debate is never scheduled. On 20 August 2013, the then Minister without portfolio for regional affairs Delrio presented another bill, which, after having remained stuck several months in the rooms of the Parliament, resumes its new life. But why? What happened? Yes, Renzi, former President of the Province of Florence, has arrived, and everything has acquired the rhythms of the television show, in which the appearance counts a lot and the substance doesn't matter anything, even doesn't exist. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But let's move on. Delrio becomes undersecretary and first adviser to the President and he inherits his bill. He says he wants to abolish the Provinces and does not abolish them; he says he wants to simplify the institutional apparatus and does not simplify them; he says he wants to reduce the number of seats and instead increases it; he says he wants to reduce the costs of politics and instead does not reduce them. But let's get into Delrio's bill. Also this time you only change the name to things: the abolition of the Provinces is not the abolition of the Provinces, but only a transformation in which the sovereignty of the citizens is mortified by the power of the caste. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr. Renzi, this is a "barbacucco": the caste will elect the caste chosen by the caste. But we're always moving on. If mathematics is not an opinion (and it is not an opinion), the Delrio bill monstrously increases the number of political positions. I'll explain why, give it to the hand. Currently, in municipalities with a population of up to 1,000 inhabitants, the City Council is composed, as well as the mayor, of six councillors. With the Delrio bill, on the other hand, we have ten councilmen and two councilmen. And the chairs increase. Currently, in municipalities with a population of 1,000 to 3,000 inhabitants, the City Council is composed, as well as the mayor, of six councillors and two city councilors. With the Delrio bill, on the other hand, we have ten councilmen and two councilmen. And the chairs increase. At present, in the municipalities of 3,000 to 5,000 inhabitants, the City Council is composed, as well as the mayor, of seven councillors and three city councilors. With the Delrio bill, on the other hand, we have twelve councilmen and four councilmen. And the chairs increase. Currently, in the municipalities with population from 5,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, the City Council is composed, as well as the mayor, by ten municipal councillors and four city councilors. With the Delrio bill, on the other hand, we have twelve councilmen and four councilmen. And the chairs increase. And so since - as I said before - mathematics is not an opinion, in other words - hear, hear - driven from the door 1,774 provincial advisors (and not 3,000 as you say) and bring back from the window 26,000 new advisors. I repeat: 26,000. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And to these we add 5,000 new aldermen. I repeat: 5,000. But why do you keep picking up Italians? But why are you lying? Why? I remind you - and I remind the President of the Council - that Article 661 of the current penal code punishes the offence of abuse of popular credulity by arrest of up to three months and fine of up to 1,032 euros. On the other hand, from whom has passed from "The wheel of fortune" to the Presidency of the Province of Florence, what can we expect? In short, what do we expect from whom during his term as president of the Province of Florence has carried out representation expenses of 600,000 euros and an erarial damage - it seems - equal to 6 million euros? Or do we want to talk about another financing of only 100 000 euros at the "Pimpa" circle? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, the 5 Star Movement will, of course, vote no to this draft law and not to trust this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u150	ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Delrio bill is indeed a reform that has been badly developed. First of all it must be clarified that Forza Italia has long shared the objective of rationalising the institutional system of our country, of simplifying the functioning of the political-burocratic machine and of implementing a reduction in the costs of politics through the reduction of the Provinces. If the objectives are therefore shared, it is the method that we are contesting today. The simplification of the institutional structure of our country had to be implemented through a correct legislative process, respectful of the constitutional dictation and the cardinal principles that govern it, which did not happen with the bill under consideration, which is clearly unconstitutional. The Province, in fact, is a territorial entity provided for in the current Article 114 of the Constitution: it cannot therefore be abolished by ordinary law, as it has attempted and still attempts to do today the former Minister and current Undersecretary Delrio. All the constitutionalists in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at their meetings between October and January have expressed strong reservations about the text under consideration, which in their opinion gave rise to very serious statements of unconstitutionality, in particular due to the expected degradation of the Provinces to autonomous bodies with second-degree representation, with bodies elected by the mayors of the territory and not directly by the citizens. If the Provinces were to be abolished, i.e. to change their structure into second-level bodies, by unanimous judgment of constitutional doctrine, it was and is necessary not to have ordinary law, as is claimed to be today, but to have a constitutional law. Of this importance, from Forza Italia since the beginning of the examination of the text in the Commission, only recently was the justification shared by the majority, who now declared that they wanted to accompany this bill a constitutional bill for the abolition of the Provinces. Well, better late than never: it is a pity that the text of the new constitutional bill has only been announced and has not yet been deposited in Parliament. However, this late recognition does not healthy the original defect, generating a regulatory mess that will inevitably lead to difficulties in interpreting, with considerable and very serious disputes between the State and Provinces. With constructive intent and, as it were, in the reformist spirit that emerged in the meeting of the Nazarene between Matteo Renzi and Silvio Berlusconi, Forza Italia nevertheless tried, during the examination of the measure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to make its contribution to the improvement of the text; some modest result was achieved, if only for the government's recognition of the need to accompany the ordinary law text the procedure of constitutional modification. However, the overall judgment on bill 1212 remains negative. It is a confused and contradictory measure, which empties the Provinces but does not eliminate them, which does not save and does not simplify, which eliminates the direct election for entities of wide area, metropolitan cities and what remains of the Provinces, and which also presents several profiles of unconstitutionality. For all these reasons, the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be against. Among the most critical aspects of the measure I want to highlight three. The first and the most striking, against which we fought to the last with the utmost firmness, is the circumstance that the so-called metropolitan mayor will coincide ipso iure with the mayor of the capital city. This is a very serious vulnus of which, in my opinion, there is a clear inconstitutionality. In fact, the metropolitan mayor is not directly or indirectly referable to the entire metropolitan electoral body but only to the voters of the city, leaving the voters of the other municipalities belonging to the new metropolitan institution uncovered. In addition, on the political level, with this measure, the left, which generally leads the big cities, but which today does not control most of the Provinces, will in fact end up ruling the entire provincial territory, without the electoral citizens having any power to counter this change of political majority, and this is unacceptable. We come to the failure to reduce costs. Contrary to what people want to believe, this measure does not abolish the Provinces: it simply abolishes democratic representation in the Provinces. Burocracy, personnel and equipment remain in place. It is for this reason that the Court of Auditors, during the hearing held on 16 January last, has evidenced that the birth of the metropolitan cities can lead to an increase of costs, coinciding with the permanence in life of the provincial institutions. At the same time, the transfer of the Provinces' staff to the Regions is likely to lead to an upward adjustment of wages and a further increase in public expenditure, without benefit to the community. Finally, the number of metropolitan cities provided for in this measure appears abnormal. The Delrio bill, in the drafting that we are going to vote on, identifies nine metropolitan cities in the Regions with ordinary autonomy, in addition to Rome Capital; moreover, it provides for the addition of additional five metropolitan cities if established by Regions with special autonomy in their respective capitals. In short, we risk having 15 metropolitan cities in Italy. The comparison is merciless if you think that in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Holland and Austria, with 280 million inhabitants and 110 large urban areas, there are only 10 special metropolitan governments. Probably the reason for your enthusiasm is that the European Union has just activated specific funding for metropolitan areas, but in this case we are only in danger of dissipating resources. Finally, I would like to reply to Matteo Renzi that last night, with a tweet, punctually re-launched with great emphasis by all the national agencies and media, he exalted the measure under consideration, declaring that if it is finally approved 3,000 local politicians will cease to receive an allowance. This is the umpteenth hoax that the former mayor, the destroyer and innovator, tries to give to the public. In fact, if the measure under consideration cancels Councils and Provincial Councils, at the same time it will establish the figure of the metropolitan mayor, the metropolitan councils and the metropolitan conferences. It must also be considered that by this same measure the number of members of the Joints and Councils of Municipalities will be increased to 3,000 inhabitants, all appointed. According to some calculations by President Calderoli, who explained this morning, and also by Mr Santangelo, there will be over 25,000 new advisors and new councillors; therefore, the seats available to local political staff with this text have even increased, other than decreased. Let me give you a piece of advice to President Renzi: stop shooting her too big. I understand that the European elections stand and everything is played there, but soon, in the poker game he is playing, he will be forced to "see" and the bluff will end up in the eyes of everyone. On the subject of reforms we have made a pact to renew the institutional architecture of Italy. Forza Italia intends to respect the agreements reached. However, we check day by day that the pact is disregarded, starting with electoral law. We learn that the majority intends to block Italicum pending a nebulous reform of the Senate, Title V of the Constitution and the constitutional abolition of the Provinces. But this choice is absolutely irresponsible. You cannot leave the country without an electoral law, considering that the so-called Consultellum could not be applied today, especially for the Senate elections. For any eventuality, the electoral viability of the country must be restored. The seizures of the majority that accompanied the process of the measure in the Commission and led the Government to raise the question of trust show that your majority does not want these reforms, just as it does not want an electoral law actually applicable. The negative vote that Forza Italia expresses today, therefore, also wants to be a reminder of the respect for a fast, transparent and truly shared reform path. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u153	Martini (PD). Mr President, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will vote for the confidence that has been demanded by the Government with the awareness of the responsibility that lies in this gesture and with the seriousness of those who take charge of its duties as government. I shall give the reasons in simple terms. We strongly want the reform process to continue and support the general inspiration and direction of the President of the Council and the Government on this issue. Secondly, Parliament - and the Senate above all - must give the country, public opinion, the message that it does not refer back to these sensitive issues, does not get bogged down, does not withdraw from its responsibilities. Faced with the criticisms we have heard, with respect, but which have often been instrumental, we stand on the side of those who look at the duties of governing, we make our choice of field. I am speaking of sometimes presumptuous criticism, because in this bill there have been very different opinions, even opposed: no, because nothing really changes; no, because this is how democracy is attacked; no, because the Province is not abolished; no, because the Provinces are abolished when the problem is anything else. This is what we have heard in the debate: very diverse views. Today, the political message is prominent in relation to both important aspects of merit. If we didn't proceed today, the signal would be very clear: everything stops, you can't even make partial and initial changes, it's never a good time to start, there's no way out of the swamp. We would be a Parliament that loses the line, and the question that is immediately highlighted is: what would be the prospect that would open up in the Senate in the face of the demanding reform season that awaits us (reform of bicameralism, Title V, electoral law, etc.)? The consequences of a stop would be very serious: a high discredit on the institutions and, in particular, on the Senate. I wonder - and I ask the senators who are so much questioning what the future of this House will be - if we really need other elements of discredit, of further detachment with popular sentiment. Even those who are opposed to the bill do not want a Parliament that never decides anything, with the risk of feeding the quainquism and populism. Is that what you want? Do we believe this is useful to the country? I address, in particular, those political forces that are concerned about the rising populist tide these days. To these forces I say: be careful, it is not enough to indignant or to launch alarms; we need consistent behaviors, precise facts that act as a true antidote to populism and demagogy. The seriousness and concreteness of government and legislative action are important. These are the political reasons for trust. I said I would start with eminently political issues. On the substance, we recognise the importance of the rewriting work done in the Senate Commission. The bill came out better than it came in. For this I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Francesco Russo, and the previous rapporteur, Mr Pizzetti, the members of the Commission and all those who have spoken in this House. Of course, it is not an organic measure. It has been said by everyone, we repeat it too and it is an element present also to the Government, as the undersecretary Bressa has recognized. It is, however, an instrumental relief also from those who in recent years have not distinguished themselves for having always proposed organic frames or solutions or cost reduction operations. Let us not forget again the offices of the Ministries opened in Monza and then closed after a short time, which were not a great example of reorganization of the state and attention to the territory! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We still remember them, even though they were closed. I was saying it's not an organic measure, but it's definitely a first step, the first step. I will not repeat the remarks made by the rapporteur. All I'm saying about the Provinces is that we've defined the functions of a vast area. The paradox of having to vote and then dissolve was avoided: Mr Zeller said so, and I want to stress that. Speaking of the second-degree elections, I say we pay attention. I say this to those who have a heart for democracy: beware of the mythization of direct election always and everywhere. I say this to those who have no sympathy for presidential or hyperliberal solutions: there is a risk of giving a gift to the culture of presidentialism [[Applause from the PD Group]] , saying that always and in any case it only takes direct election, otherwise there is no democracy. Let's be careful. 18.15 p.m. (Martini followed). On the metropolitan cities, we created the conditions to leave twenty years later. On the Municipal Unions, there is a job for mergers and overcome the dust. I make only one notation, of style: let us not consider that the municipal councillors, who have been reassigned to the small municipalities under the 1.000 inhabitants, can be called "softer"! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta]] The municipal councillors of the mountain municipalities - I say this to my colleague Santangelo - are not "poltrone": they are administrators of the most difficult territories of our country! That is very clear. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I shall conclude. They are all solutions that can and must be perfected - we are aware of this - in the framework of the more general work of revising the constitution and Title V. We know. It's a commitment from the government and a commitment from us. Things must start: it is right to start them, but they cannot remain unfinished, disorganic and fragmentary. It is right, therefore, to call for a general framework, an intimate coherence, and we will not fail to make our contribution. Having said that, however, we come out of the hypocrisy and double language that holds together the maximum rhetoric of change - never enough the change we have - and the slightest willingness to really change. We must feel the urgency and the challenging nature of this phase. We must give national and European credibility to a line of rigour, consolidation and reorganization. The important thing, therefore, is to keep together, culturally and politically, the approval of each individual act of reform and the general plan, also in the connection between reform and economic growth. On this ground we can do many things: keep alive a logical thread of discussion among all these draft laws (in the Senate we will have so many, we will have a great opportunity, we will not waste it); commit to make the whole institutional framework move, and not only the local authorities. Today we are dealing with Provinces, metropolitan cities and small municipalities, and then we will have to deal with the overcoming of the administrative bodies of Municipalities, Provinces and Regions, the rationalization of the decentralized offices of the State, the reorganization of the regional system as well, because there are no longer twenty regions so made in the European scenario, and we must feel the urgency of a high commitment to rewriting. Finally, the Senate of the Autonomies, the code of autonomy and the slimming care of the Ministries, bodies and regional agencies: this is our road map. The picture is clear to us: it is complicated and tiring, but we will work on it, guided by a clear political line on which I conclude. We reorganize local and territorial powers, we overcome dysfunction and waste, but not to mortify autonomy, not because we prefer more State, more Centralism and more Ministries, but rather to make autonomy work better, so that it is really and more useful to the country. Autonomy is a strong constitutional principle: it is not a luxury, it is not a transitional ingredient, it is not a provisional instrument. Article 5 of the Constitution makes this clear, with such strong words that I can only conclude by reading: The Republic, one and indivisible, recognizes and promotes local self-government; it implements the broadest administrative decentralisation in services dependent on the State; it adapts the principles and methods of its legislation to the needs of autonomy and decentralisation. On this ground we will be there. We hope that there will be others, even all those who, in these days, have expressed so much criticism of this measure. But we'll take a first step. The rest of us are committed to it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u156	Rossi Maurizio (PI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group to which I belong, because President Lucio Romano's explanation of vote, which is acceptable in its content, has finally, while criticising the draft law, indicated a favourable vote because the question of trust was raised. I do not agree with this very point: I do not accept to change my thinking, so my vote because obstinacy - if not arrogance - leads the government to put the question of trust. You had a very simple possibility, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which was to withdraw a wrong bill, which is expensive for citizens and which also leaves many doubts as to its possible application. The undoubted ability of this Government to communicate is not sufficient reason for changing my vote, in fear of appearing among the defenders of the Provinces. The system of territorial authorities must be revised as a whole, starting from the Regions, not from the Provinces. I live in a region that is the most expensive in Northern Italy, Liguria: 2,400 euros per capita compared to 2,000 of the other Regions. You think that only Liguria, if it brought its cost to that of the other Regions, would save more than 500 million euros. I also share all the concerns about the costs of metropolitan cities, which overlap with the regions in small regions. I therefore do not think it right to change my voting convictions, either because the Government has decided to raise the question of trust or because of possible image problems. I would like to make it clear that on other occasions I will be able to vote in favour of other draft legislation, if it shares its content, in the interests of the country and without being influenced, as today, by the vote of confidence. I shall therefore vote against this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and GAL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u158	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u159	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since it has only been a month, I have a great deal of experience in my memory of the suffering and the difficulty, even within my Group, in discussing the first vote of confidence in the Renzi Government. This is a decision that I then came to in order to respect the dictates of my Group, but I remember having raised some issues within it: I had observed that we started with reforms in the wrong way, starting first with the electoral one, and then moving on to that of the Senate and, finally, to Title V. I asked questions of merit, asking if it was not necessary to review this path, considering it would be much better to start on the contrary, from the reform of Title V, to move on to that of the Senate and therefore to the electoral one. I have come to trust the Renzi Government, but I cannot maintain it at the moment, for an extremely simple reason: the bill that we are preparing to vote on today really seems like a papocchio. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] I have also overcome the difficulty, in the first instance, of giving my vote of confidence to a President-in-Office of the Council who has presented himself in this House, as well as with the absence of content, even with a form of contempt for him. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] I have it in my memory, not so much because of the offense to the senators in this House, but because of what it represents in the culture and history of the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Bellot.]] So, if that's the case, I'm not one of those who respond to electoral ad logics. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] I will try for a moment to raise myself to the cultural level of my President-in-Office of the Council... (Minister Giannini takes his place in the benches of the Government). I would simply like to point out that, because of the decadence that has been set aside for this second half of the term of office, this debate on the vote of confidence has for the first time seen the presence of a Minister only now. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] I want to try to raise myself - I said - to the cultural level of my President-in-Office, who ranges from Gigliola Cincetti to video games. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And I'll try to say that that tweet that sent about 3,000 places that will fail simply means that 31,000 new places will be added. That's the lie, the mask that we have to drop! That is why I shall not be taking part in this vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut and Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u160	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 1212, in the text proposed by the Commission, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked, for motivated and documented reasons of health or for the departure for international missions, and I granted it, to vote first the senators Casini, D'Ascola, Latorre, Micheloni, Di Biagio, Mussini, Dalla Tor, De Siano and Zavoli. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name is drawn by lot from Senator Di Giorgi). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Di Giorgi. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzolini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Carini, Casini, Cassana, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Fideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Finsorgi, Fincori, Fincori, Fincori, Fincori, Fincori, Fornarizio, Gattinari, Frani Favero, Favero, Fevero, Fideli Senators say no: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bitonci, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Botti, Bruni, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Luciari, Fazzone, Ferrara, Ferrara, Flori (In the course of the vote, Senators Di Maggio and Zin declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill No 1212 in the text proposed by the Commission, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 296 Senators voting 293 Majority 147 Favorables 160 Contrars 133]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] All amendments and agendas relating to draft law No 1212 are therefore not included. The draft law No 965 is absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u161	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1401, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] I ask the senators to take their seats at their desks and to allow the rapporteur's speech to take place. Anyone who does not wish to listen will be able to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u162	Mr President, we are going to vote on the conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 45 of 28 January 2014, laying down urgent provisions in tax and contribution matters and deferring the time limits for tax and contributory obligations. Already in the title of the measure an amendment has been made to the Chamber of Deputies because, with the deletion of Article 1, the legislative part that introduced the regulation of voluntary cooperation in tax matters has been eliminated. It should also be stressed and pointed out that the House of Deputies has without prejudice to acts, measures adopted, effects and legal relations arising on the basis of the rules contained in the same article. It introduced the institute of voluntary collaboration on activities and investments held abroad. That should have been an opportunity to tackle an extremely important issue in an organic way, but it will be done by means of an ad hoc measure. From this point of view there is the awareness that this is a strongly awaited intervention and therefore, in line with the guidelines drawn up by the OECD and the conclusions of the Greek Commission, the Government and the majority will certainly face it with a special measure. As far as the wording we are going to debate in this House is concerned, it must be said that it still maintains important issues. In article 2, paragraph 1, letter a), paragraphs 575 and 576 of the law of stability 2014, containing provisions aimed at the reorganization of tax facilities, are repealed. In particular, those subparagraphs provided for measures to rationalise deductions for the charges referred to in Article 15 of the TUIR by 31 January 2014 in order to ensure higher revenues of around EUR 488 million for 2014, around EUR 772 million for 2015 and around EUR 564 million from 2016. In the absence of such measures, the measure of deduction for charges foreseen by TUIR would have been reduced from 19 to 18% for 2013 and to 17% from 2014. It is clear that, in this situation, with the failure of this provision, introduced precisely by the law of stability, we would have had a negative impact on the current economic measures, which are aimed at giving greater income capacity to the medium-low income bracket, that of up to 25,000 euros. With regard to paragraph 1, to the letters b) to d), there is the increase of the savings objectives expected from the spending review provided for by the law of stability 2014 in order to find the resources necessary for the coverage of the lower revenues deriving from the reorganization of the tax facilities provided for in paragraphs 575 and 576 of the law of stability itself, which are abolished, as I have said before, from the letter a). Paragraph 2 therefore provides that the charges resulting from the deletion of the above paragraphs shall be provided by means of the expenditure savings in commentary. In paragraph 3 of Article 2, the deadline for the payment of premiums and contributions for compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases and for the electronic sending of the related remuneration complaints is 16 May 2014. This postponement is intended to allow the rapid application of the regulatory forecast - contained in Article 1, paragraph 128, of the 2014 Stability Act - of a reduction of the above-mentioned premiums and contributions. This is an important measure, with concrete implementation of what has already been decided for the reduction of INAIL premiums paid by companies, which will reduce the cost of accident insurance by as much as EUR 1 billion. To paragraph 3-a, added by the Chamber, in order to facilitate the respect of the payment times referred to in Legislative Decree no. 231 of October 9, 2002, the maximum limit of appeal by local authorities to treasury advances is increased, until the date of December 31, 2014, from three to five twelfths. Paragraph 4, with an interpretative rule, expressly provides for the applicability of the government concession fee to mobile phone subscription contracts. It is a prerogative, although it certainly constitutes a kind of unicum. Paragraph 4-a, inserted by the Chamber, announces article 4, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law No 167 of 1990, in the matter of annual declaration for investments and activities, in order to specify that the obligations of indication in the tax return do not exist for deposits and bank accounts constituted abroad, the maximum total value of which reached during the tax period is not greater than 10,000 euros. Article 3, paragraphs 1 to 4, amended by the Chamber, provides for the suspension of the terms of payments and tax and contributory obligations, which expire in the period between 17 January 2014 and 31 October 2014, in favour of persons with residence or operational headquarters in the municipalities of the province of Modena affected by the flood of 17 and 19 January 2014 or in the municipalities of the Veneto Region affected by flooding events between 30 January and 18 February 2014 and identified by paragraphs 1, 1-a and 4. In paragraph 4, in particular, extends the scope of the article in commentary to certain hamlets of the city of Modena, as well as to the territories of the aforementioned municipalities of the Veneto Region, provided that the state of emergency has been declared. However, this extension, as amended by the Chamber, is subject to the following conditions: the taxpayer's request to declare that the dwelling house, the professional studio, the holding or the agricultural land is temporary; the municipal authority must verify the causal link between the event and the declaration. Paragraph 4-a, inserted by the Chamber, also contains a safeguard clause that, in the presence of deviations from the authorized expenditure, provides for the payment at the entry of the State's budget of the sums necessary to compensate for the related higher charges. Paragraph 2-a, inserted by the Chamber, assigns to the aforementioned entities, holders of mortgage or chirografari loans related to buildings destroyed or unactible even partially or to the management of economic activities carried out in the same buildings, the right to request the suspension until 31 December 2014 of the installments of the loans in existence. Paragraph 5 label with code that classifies as municipal waste not otherwise specified the waste produced by alluvial events. Paragraph 6 of the same Article 3 states that the delegated commissioner appointed for the restoration of the roadway in the state and provincial roads interrupted or damaged for the flood of November 2013 in Sardinia operates with powers also derogating to be defined by order of the head of the Department of Civil Protection, pursuant to law n. 225 of 24 February 1992. Paragraph 7 recognizes, for the three years 2013-2015, some integrations to the economic treatment ancillary to the non-directional staff, also of the Armed Forces and the Police Forces, employed in structures of the department of the protection, in the limit of expenditure of 4,5 million euros (3 million euros for the year 2014 and 1,5 million euros for the year 2015). This recognition works in the more than renewal of the supplementary bargaining concerning the staff of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and in any case no later than 2015. Finally, Article 3-a allows to defer until two years the repayment of the debt by share capital for the soft loans governed by Decree-Law No 174 of 10 October 2012, and by the Stability Act for 2013 to provide for the payment of the taxes, contributions and suspended premiums, as well as those to be paid from 1 December 2012 to 30 June 2013 by the taxpayers concerned by the earthquake in Emilia, Lombardy and Veneto of May 2012. It is a measure that, although it has been removed an important part that already bears the indication in the title, maintains its own importance linked to the useful and necessary norms that it contains and integrates with the economic maneuver of the current Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u163	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert appears to be very uneven, as can be seen from the title. All this is contrary to Law No 400 of 1998 which states that decrees-laws: "They must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title" and with the most recent judgment No 22 of 2012 of the Constitutional Court that invites the legislator to produce measures of unitary character. (19.29) (Follows BIGNAMI). First of all, I would like to express my disagreement over the too short time left to the Senate for the examination of the decree-law whose discussion began in the Chamber of Deputies one month after the presentation of the measure by the Executive. In this way, once again, the parliamentary activity of us senators has been undermined. We are in favour of the deletion, implemented by the House of Deputies, of Article 1 on the return of capital from abroad because the measures provided for in the decree-law were not easy to apply. The subject requires a complex and in-depth study which I agree, and we agree, should be postponed to another location. Overall, the measure, albeit in its unevenness, contains measures that are acceptable to help families and businesses. In particular, Article 2 (1) and (2) repeals the safeguard clause contained in the 2014 Stability Act aimed at the economic coverage of part of the measure through the reorganisation of tax facilities, certain tax credits and the increase of tariffs and levies. Paragraph 3 of Article 2 provides for the deferment of the payment of the INAIL insurance premiums which, from February, slip to the middle of May. This measure allows companies to benefit immediately from the tax wedge cut provided for by the 2014 Stability Act. On the other hand, there is considerable concern about paragraph 4 of Article 2. The Government, fearing of having to return the government concession fee that it collects since 2003, has run to repair, inserting in the decree a norm of authentic interpretation that extends the applicability of the tax to the contracts of subscription for mobile phones: the tax on mobile phones is applied to the measure of 5,16 euros per month on the subscriptions of the natural persons and of 12,91 euros on those of the enterprises. On this issue there is a heated debate in doctrine and unstable jurisprudence. At the end of 2012, the Court of Cassation had recognized the taxableness of mobile phone subscription contracts, but the Tax Section of the Cassation, by order of 17 May 2013, pointing towards the inapplicability of the tax, referred the question of the legality of the application to the United Sections, which have not yet expressed itself on the issue. The application of this measure appears to be yet another harassment of citizens and a violation of the principles of the Taxpayer's Statute. We share the urgency of the rules on tax and contributory obligations in favour of flood-stricken areas in recent months. Such interventions are welcome, but we are aware that they represent only a small step to remedy the dramatic events of an atmospheric and seismic nature that have struck our country recently, bringing down citizens and businesses. I think it is very appropriate to provide as soon as possible for the creation of a national fund to deal with the disasters that affect Italy every year. Structural intervention with a specific framework law is needed. Our country must equip itself with a system of prevention of hydrogeological and seismic risks, we must finance interventions that could create jobs, and that would have costs certainly lower than those necessary to start the reconstruction after the disasters that happen from time to time. In Italy, unfortunately, we pay for the lack of a culture of prevention; instead, if we invest in the preventive safety of our territories, we could avoid irreparable damage and allow the State a considerable economic saving. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u165	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u166	Mr President, after the rejection of the amendment to the House that procrastinated the deadlines for tax compliance and that provided for subsidised funding of up to EUR 90 million in favour of the Sardinian populations affected by the flood of 18 November 2013, it becomes difficult to understand the real intentions of the Government. What is certain is that Sardinia and Sardinia cannot wait: concrete and immediate aid is needed, at least to finance the most urgent measures. With our amendment we simply wanted Sardinia to be given the opportunity to take advantage of that funding of 90 million euros, as provided for in the first decree save Rome. To see such an important amendment accepted, although not decisive, would still have been an opportunity to regain some of the dignity stolen from time immemorial to a land as beautiful as torn by indifference, carelessness and atavistic exploitation. What happened shows, in fact, in addition to carelessness and indifference, a form of contempt for the Sardinians, their enterprises and their families, scourged by the flood and numerous deaths that we cannot forget. It creates a bitter smile to know that the rejection of the amending proposal is linked to the lack of financial coverage. In the face of over 600 million euros of proven damage, the promise to obtain only 90 million from a government that has only changed its shirt without changing its face has been ripped off. If we then go down on the merits, almost no Sardinian has benefited from the suspension for the payment of the taxes, also because of the opacity of the legislation regarding the deadlines and, in any case, limited to a single month of payments. It is also unclear why the approximately EUR 90 million earmarked for funding parties have been found. What about Sardinia? Even the measure on metropolitan cities, designed to reduce the costs of politics and make the institutional system more efficient and transparent, in the opinion of the Court of Auditors not only will not save the state, but will lead to an increase in costs, and we are talking about much more figures than 90 million euros. The funds for Sardinia are not found or there must be: how do we have to work to make sure that this is not a further and continuous forgetment of a people that has been hit by a flood as a result of which many people have lost everything? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u167	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u168	Mr President, my speech will be a very brief one in the meantime to make a point of how we continue to legislate. This is necessary to say, even after today's vote of confidence that has finally reformed in such a profound way the system of local autonomy, because we face a measure that is titled "Conversion to law, with amendments, Decree-Law 28 January 2014, n. 4, with urgent provisions on the emergence and return of capital held abroad", which suffers - as is known - a decisive amputation in the Chamber of Deputies on this subject, for those who go to seek within it the provisions that serve that purpose. In many cases this affair has already been dealt with with with insufficient capacity by the State to contribute to clarity from the point of view of the responsibilities and also of the interests of our economy to recover, on the one hand, capital usable for productive investment purposes and, on the other hand, taxes, for the dark ways in which those capitals ended up abroad to enrich probably other financial and economic realities; to recover, therefore, what has lost the State's cash from the point of view of fiscal obligations. There is also another aspect to this provision. We hope that state intervention in the field of natural disasters will be as effective as possible. But let us also remember, Mr President, that the damage caused mainly by atmospheric events, to a large extent, could be avoided. In the discussion on the bill of stability we fought a huge battle to devote resources to the settlement and maintenance of the territory and to the recovery of a hydrogeological structure that is as much as possible corresponding to the conditions of nature and the least violated by the presence of artifacts (in many cases whole plots of houses for civil use and in many other structures that - instead - have a productive destination, but that must be realized not where there is a risk established from the hydrogeological point of view, but where this risk is not there). On the contrary, Mr President, we have fought a huge battle to ensure that there is consistency between basin planning and ground defence interventions and the presence of buildings with different uses (i.e. the coherence between that planning and municipal planning). We have also supported the thesis that perhaps, sometimes, rather than intervening with funding of hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros that are repeated every year to give satisfaction (in some cases only a little more breath) to those who have lost everything, for the productive activities of enterprise that they realized in those artifacts or because they have lost their home, it would be better to intervene in advance, therefore allocate the financial resources that they serve to permanently arrange the territory, in order not to risk to pay continuously the damages that alluvial events, no longer exceptional, produce in this country. We couldn't do it. It was decided not to use the financial allocations that should have been allocated to this end, including multiannual programming and also using the Structural Funds and the Development and Cohesion Fund that had not been spent. Afterwards, the floods arrived: they arrived in Sardinia as we discussed the bill of stability and arrived later in Veneto. Only for Sardinia there is a disbursement, and only for a specific intervention that concerns the tax lot, of 90 million; for Veneto there are instead some hundreds of million destined for the same purpose (in fact, for a little more extensive purposes than those concerning Sardinia). Mr President, I would like to ask you for the courtesy of having Parliament also consider that there are no A and B Italians and that it can only be those who, during the atmospheric events of 30 January and 18 February in the Veneto region, have suffered serious consequences, have a different and wider attention than that which Sardinia has received. At least when it comes to natural disasters, interventions must be of the same nature and, both as measures and as a ratio and proportion to the damage suffered, must be equal. Otherwise, Mr President, in Sardinia we have, among other things, during the debate after very difficult months, an intervention which concerns only the tax lot, while in Veneto we have interventions which, by suspending also the loans that must be paid and honoured by those who have suffered the damage, carry out a more substantial and even better articulated intervention. I say this because it is in question, also in the Committee on Budgets in its deliberations, a measure which concerns Sardinia and, in particular, the measures I mentioned earlier in connection with taxation. In that context, if it is not possible to speak with an amendment, because we are in the final phase and probably the issue of cover must be resolved, we believe that at least an agenda should be adopted which we hope the Government can do - it could do so here too - by declaring a commitment to comply with the measures in favour of those who have suffered the consequences of natural disasters caused by flooding. [[Senator Spousetti's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u169	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u170	Mr President, I would like to highlight three aspects of particular interest to the decree that we are discussing. The first concerns the deletion of the rule, contained in the Stability Act, which resulted in a linear reduction of those deductions which are in the IRPEF and which currently account for 19% of household expenditure on health care, schools and interest payments on loans. It is important that this intervention on tax concessions, which I think is absolutely necessary, should not be dealt with in this way but should be postponed to the implementation of the tax delegation. In fact, it will be possible to intervene with a more comprehensive work of rationalization and systematization of the facilities that have stratified over the years and that concern all the taxes and not only the IRPEF. It will also be possible to safeguard the protection of families, health, as well as the incomes of employees and self-employed persons, of small businesses and pensions, as stated by the guiding principles and as would not have been the case with a linear intervention. In particular, another reason why I think it is essential to abandon linear intervention is that, in my opinion, we must move, on the contrary, with conscious choices, with which we are responsible for identifying priorities. This is a fundamental aspect because perhaps this would lead the legislator, as well as the Government, to better reflect in the future on the introduction of the facilities: it is quick to introduce the facilities, but then it is very difficult to remove them, and there are no shortcuts. The second point that I would like to stress is that this cancellation has led to funding which also involves a reduction in social funds. This is something that needs to be addressed, and the previous Government had already committed itself to taking action to prevent this from happening. The 6th Commission, unanimously, today adopted an agenda which commits the Government to avoiding this cut. Another positive aspect of the measure, which I would like to mention, concerns the postponement of the payment of INAIL insurance premiums from February to May. This is a very important postponement, because it aims to make operational, since 2014, the rule aimed at reducing the premiums in question (content in the Stability Act). This is a significant rule on the tax wedge; it is about EUR 1 billion. It will therefore make available a cut of EUR 1 billion on the tax wedge as early as this year; this figure will then gradually become a regime, from 2016, EUR 1.2 billion. This is therefore a very important measure for companies. The heart of the measure, however, is certainly what concerns the postponement of deadlines related to tax and contributory obligations, as well as the possibility of requiring banks to suspend outstanding loan instalments. This will be possible for both families and companies that have suffered damage and concerns subjects with residence or operational headquarters in the Municipalities of the Province of Modena and the Veneto Region affected by floods, respectively, in January and February 2014. I would point out that these are the first answers; they were adopted in good time by the Government, but they were also significantly improved by the House, with a work that involved, alongside the MPs of the Democratic Party, also parliamentarians of other groups. However, I would stress that other urgent measures are necessary, first of all for the recognition and compensation of damages. One aspect that I would like to mention is that these measures have affected and affect the seven municipalities of the Province of Modena which constitute a single, a disgrace in misfortune. In twenty months, they have suffered two disasters: the earthquake disaster of May 2012 and the flood disaster of January 2013, which have put the same subjects on their knees twice overall. I want to remember these municipalities, because they deserve our attention and our solidarity in particular: they are the municipalities of Bastille, Bomporto, Camposanto, Finale Emilia, Medolla, San Felice sul Panaro and San Prospero. With regard to the earthquake, it is another step forward, which concerns the areas affected by the earthquake of May 2012, the biennial extension (which we hope, however, with the other measure currently under discussion in the Senate, to extend to three years) of the deadline for the repayment of soft loans that have been contracted to provide for the payment of taxes, contributions and premiums suspended or to be paid from 1 December 2012 to 30 June 2013. I would now like to make two comments, which reflect what the previous speakers have already said, but they are so important that I too would like to make them. For these territories of Emilia-Romagna and Veneto a path has begun positively. For other areas affected by natural disasters this has not yet happened or has happened only partially. I believe that we must commit ourselves, both Government and Parliament together, with two aims. Firstly, for all situations of natural disaster, there is a need to have uniform answers, not entrusted to the randomness of the cover or to the tenacity and luck of the Members representing the different territories. This seems to me to be the most important point: we must focus on solidarity and not on competition between wounded territories or on scarce resources or, better, on insufficient resources. We are faced with a regulatory emergency with respect to the problem of natural emergencies; that is, we need to have a national law that regulates emergencies (I can also say by taking advantage of the experience that the community of Emilia-Romagna, to which I belong, has matured with regard to the earthquake of 2012) and a dedicated financing. The answers needed must not only be homogeneous and consistent with the European State aid framework, but also timely. Those who have lived in the territories wounded by these disasters understand that not seeing their own situation of damage recognized in fast times makes them feel lonely, frustrates the efforts of the local administrations, which also do so much on the territories, and adds pain to pain. Then we have to get out of the emergency. This means - as has already been mentioned - systematically addressing the issue of securing our territory, in order to prevent hydrological disruptions and at least to stem the consequences of seismic ones. The point I would like to stress in conclusion is that we must all understand together, once again Government and Parliament, that investing in these areas today means saving tomorrow, not only suffering and suffering to so many people and businesses, but also those resources that will be necessary tomorrow to compensate for the damage and to reconstruct laboriously what had already been, often with fatigue and tenacity, conquered. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u171	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u172	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I felt obliged to speak today a little to recall the events that occurred in Sardinia on 18 November 2013, when a calamitous event created a flood in the area of Olbia (and not only in many districts of Sardinia), causing, in addition to environmental damage and road structures, buildings and factories, even 17 deaths. Unfortunately, three other suicides have been added to those 17 deaths, who, having suffered damage, have certainly gone into depression and have not been able to overcome the state of discomfort, feeling that they have to take their lives because they did not see for themselves any prospect of work. I would also remind you that at that time, on those dates, many authorities went to Sardinia, from the President-in-Office of the Council to various Ministers; there was - we would say with a term that I do not like, but that he realizes - a catwalk of representatives of the Government who showed solidarity with the people, to whom they promised immediate measures to heal the damage suffered by people, businesses and infrastructure. From that time until now many measures have been examined in this House, from the law of stability to the decree-law save Rome, to other measures in which we have tried to find the possibility to include resources for the populations that have suffered considerable damage, but the result has been almost zero. In the discussion that took place in the Chamber on the decree-law today at our examination there were several interventions by Sardinian colleagues, and not only, who, in calling on the Undersecretary Zanetti, invoked the possibility of seeing approved with a positive vote, of course through the acceptance of the Government, own amendments that concerned our island. Undersecretary Zanetti said that at that time there was no time to make checks on the financial coverage of what was required and postponed the interventions on Sardinia to the discussion of the same bill to the Senate. I must say that, with regard to the text examined in the Chamber, we have seen a speech in the Senate concerning Veneto, of which we naturally cannot but welcome, but no initiative on Sardinia. Tomorrow we will examine and vote on the amendments, which we already know will not be accepted by the Government, and certainly not, by the majority, for matters of time, but we trust that some of them may be transformed into agendas of the day, or that, however, after the confrontation with the Undersecretary Delrio tonight, interventions relating, precisely, to Sardinia can already be accepted tomorrow in this law text. What I mean, in short, in conclusion of my speech, is that in Italy it is too long the period between the time when the damage is suffered and the time when compensation for natural disasters is received. Therefore, it seems to me that what has been reported by the senator who preceded me about the fund for natural disasters is absolutely acceptable. Of course we hope for Sardinia that today's evening and tomorrow's day can turn into something positive for the refreshment of the damage suffered by people, houses, infrastructure and businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u173	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, once again, a decree-law. We have now lost track of how many decree-laws this Parliament has examined and voted on since the center-left government took office last year. A bad habit that of the decree of urgency, that we hoped would end with the advent of the new government, but, apparently, useless. The President of the Republic himself, who has on several occasions openly condemned the use of the decree of urgency, will make it clear that the Government will be asked to adopt a different attitude and to make more appropriate use of this instrument. The issuing of the last decree saves Rome, for example, is tangible proof of the fact that evidently the Head of State once again spoke for nothing. A fury of producing decrees-laws, however, happens what occurred with the measure under consideration, or is presented a decree that contains a norm, that of the return of capital from abroad to the precision, described as a good norm. Too bad that, as confirmed in the Commission in the House, so far only a few dozen people have decided to try the procedure, testimony of the absolute ineffectiveness of those measures, so much so that after long debate, in the end, by mutual agreement, Government, majority and opposition have decided to delete that article 1 by deleting the intervention by decree-law, referring to future proposals of law that the Government will commit itself - it has guaranteed, and therefore, if the Government has guaranteed it, we pretend to believe us - to vote quickly in ninety days. We'll see about that. In the meantime, in order to safeguard the position of those few people who started the procedure, we had to vote on a bipartisan agenda to protect the subjects who submitted validly the petition and the documentation provided by them. In practice, remedies had to be used to ensure an ill-made rule and could have been avoided if, instead of always acting by decree-law, a clear, precise and well-designed rule had been applied immediately. But it's a vain hope with this government. As said, speaking of badly designed emergency decrees, memory can only run to the last decree, to the famous save Rome, which even after having been buried twice in a few months has been re-presented by this Government, in an attempt to save the capital city from the ever more irreversible budget crac. So much for the announced renewal! On the other hand, we welcome the fact that it was intended to postpone the entry into force of the provision contained in the Stability Act of the previous Government, which intervened on certain deductions. The position of the League was that of always, that is negative. Too easy to act on the chapter of deductions without worrying about whether the greater resources can not be found elsewhere, perhaps with political choices that are not popular but necessary. However, we are close to the elections and therefore we understand this too. Revision of public expenditure and cutting of inefficient bodies, but of those very inefficient bodies (not as we have seen with the measure approved earlier), abolition of participating companies and application of standard requirements. As you can see, the space to find new resources would be there, just have the courage to give them implementation. And we are curious, in this regard, to see how good Prime Minister Renzi will be able to find all the financial resources necessary to implement the promises he made for his electorate in view of the forthcoming European elections. Let's smile for now. For the moment, it is enough for us to see the sad curtain with which the incoming Government, perhaps even in view of its inexperience, has treated, or rather decided not to deal, Article 1 of the measure under consideration, on which - just to clarify - it would have been useful to ask first whether it was not necessary to write better and immediately such a text, so as to start discussing it in the Commission already a few weeks before. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the other hand, however, we cannot fail to appreciate the intervention of the Government on our amending proposal which also asked to extend to the Venetians affected by extraordinary weather events, as well as to companies, the suspension of the payment of taxes and contributions. Let it be clear: the norm does not solve at all the problematicities of this Region, martyred in the last three years by a flood, abundant snowfalls and frequent calamitous events, mostly sudden. And in this sense, while appreciating the Commission's attempt to remedy this situation, we are sure and sure that President Renzi will also give satisfactory answers on this. We are all well aware of the Prime Minister's political path and his frequent statements against the Stability Pact, which prevents local authorities from being able to invest fresh resources in works to protect public soil. We'll see. The North League has long denounced, as well known, this intolerable situation, emphasizing that it is unacceptable to prevent the municipal authorities the possibility of investing their own money to defend the territory, then having to force the same State to have to compensate for the damage caused by bad weather. But we are in Italy and these things happen too. We have seen with favor the pleasant exchange of jokes between the Premier and the German Prime Minister during his last visit to Europe: let us not doubt that after so many declarations, he will succeed in convincing the German bishop of the rigor to leave the path of austerity in order to allow a real and concrete recovery of our economy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is also because, if you do not succeed, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you can be sure that we will be the first to remind you of how much you do not keep to the citizens, who today are so enamoured with your proclamations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Serra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u175	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in the time allocated to me I would like to focus my speech on Article 3 of the measure, which has become the core because, as we know, it was born with a very different title. In fact, in that article some first and urgent answers are given to the territories affected by natural disasters in recent months (as Senator Guerra has already said), recognizing for example the specificity of a territory such as that of Emilia (Modena, in particular) hit twenty months after a devastating earthquake and a flood equally destructive, especially in Modena. We are talking about an event, that of 19 January last, in which at the break of the right bank of the river Secchia, whose direct causes are being investigated, is achieved a violent and devastating spill of 13 million cubic meters of water, which first invested the surrounding countryside and a few hours after the neighboring centers downstream of the capital, namely Bastille and Bomporto, as well as several hamlets of the city of Modena, for a total front of more than 20 kilometers. There is still an urgent questioning on the subject, the 2-00115 of 23 January. The area affected by the severe flood disaster is coinciding with part of the 2012 seismic crater, already hard hit and tested by those events. This territorial coincidence, often on individual subjects, of earthquake and flood has made the situation absolutely unique at national level. A condition of those same subjects who, while they were rising up after the shock suffered by the 2012 earthquake, were brought back to their knees by a sudden event with significant consequences: hundreds of evacuated people, 1,500 assisted in the first reception centers set up in eight municipalities, thousands of citizens who carried out autonomous accommodation, 1,000 volunteers engaged in relief and assistance to the population in the following days, 180 firemen with 95 vehicles, 150 army soldiers activated by the prefecture, dozens of provincial and regional municipal administrators involved from the first minute and still involved in giving adequate responses to citizens and businesses; 10,000 hectares of submerged land together with 600 farms in a dense territory of productions of greater value than local and regional agriculture; 1,400 enterprises, of which 100 delocalized from the most affected area of the seismic crater; about 5,000 employees involved. A declaration of state of emergency has been proclaimed with these elements that the Region has presented and then accompanied with a punctual report, and the Letta Government has recognized its specificity regarding other alluvial events, supporting it with a first allocation of 11 million euros. But the estimate of the damage that has involved the municipalities, citizens and businesses until 28 February last speaks clearly: about 200 million damage to homes and businesses and 131 million resources necessary to intervene in the repair of public infrastructure and improve the safety of the hydraulic hub of Modena. In view of these issues, the measure we are debating is able to make available some first important answers, although not exhaustive (on which I will return later) which are the result of good work carried out by the 6th Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, its President and the majority rapporteur, with the collaboration of minorities, which I would like to thank here, despite the 55 days they have used to examine the measure, because they have made it possible to identify collegially the most useful responses possible to the territories involved. With the amendments accepted in the Commission, it was possible to postpone from 31 July to 31 October the deadline for the suspension of tax and contribution deadlines for the flooded municipalities of the Province of Modena and to extend this recognition also to the Venetian municipalities affected in the same way. Very positive is also the change introduced on the suspension of mortgage payments for the benefit of households and businesses, to allow to have more oxygen for a faster return to normality. In addition to this important choice, another decisive one concerns, in particular, the procedures for returning funds received by companies in the area of seismic crater for the payment of previous taxes. Two years of extension is a fine signal, but the request, accepted already in 2013 in the decree-law saves Rome, then decayed, and now inserted in the draft law Zanda repairer, was and is what we would like the Government to receive, accepting that provision as it is in the passage to the Chamber of Deputies. On this the Undersecretary Zanetti has taken on in the other branch of Parliament, with my colleagues of the Democratic Party, a precise commitment, after the General Accounting of the State had given positive opinion to the amendment in 2013, except then to revise it a few days ago in this decree-law. As I said, it's a good job, but now the government needs to do it soon, because after 60 days, trust starts to falter. We must take on the commitments made, accepting the content of the agenda proposed by my colleagues Ghizzoni and Baruffi of the Democratic Party, in order to take a measure specifically intended for the areas of Modena that, within just 20 months, were damaged first by the earthquake and then by the flood. A measure is needed to unlock immediately the resources already allocated for the solution of the hydraulic node; it is intended, as a matter of urgency, to secure and defend the soil of the aforementioned flooded areas part of the resources of the Cohesion Policy Fund for actions to secure the territory; it excludes from the Internal Stability Pact relating to the years 2014 and 2015 the resources coming from the State and the related current part and capital expenses incurred by the Municipalities, the Province and the Region in order to cope with the alluvial emergency; the Municipalities are exempt at the same time flooded and earthquakeed from the cuts provided by the so-called spending review or, in the alternative, the objectives set for the years 2014 and 2015. It is also necessary to define certain times and simplified procedures - including through the competent territorial authorities - for the granting, both to public and private entities, of the reimbursement of the damage actually suffered and of the contributions for the restoration and repair of damages, in order to resume normal living conditions and economic and productive activity; provision should be made for the detaxation of contributions, compensations and compensations and for immediate financing systems to start the economy. In addition to the measures already laid down in the Stability Act 2014 for areas affected by the earthquake 2012, benefit tax measures are to be identified, including the provisions of Commission Regulation No 1998 of 15 December 2006, in order to meet the new and increased needs of companies affected by the earthquake and flood. On this subject there is nothing to invent, but there is the experience of the urban free zones of Lombardy and the special economic zones of Lombardy for the border areas with Switzerland and the path started by the interport of Nola. Choose the most effective and recognised one by the European Union and proceed. Finally, all available instruments are used to deal with the dramatic situation of flooded farms, which, in addition to crop damage, in many cases have been compromised by their facilities and structures. I would like to end by saying that the PD must support this measure for the positiveness of some of the measures contained in it, but that at the same time it will pressure the Government to finally discuss in this Parliament a good framework law on natural disasters, able to treat citizens affected in the same way, from the Alps to Sicily or Sardinia, as Mr Uras rightly pointed out earlier. Otherwise we will always feel, each in his own territory, abandoned and every day in trenches, to conquer our reconstruction and our compensation, and we can no longer Let's have it. The President of the Council has indicated a priority commitment of his Government on the topic of resources to prevent hydrogeological failure and for the safety of the Bel Paese. Now we need consistency of action in order to succeed in giving this country and the most vulnerable territories a safer and more lasting future. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u177	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u178	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u179	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u180	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u181	Mr President, I also give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u182	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u183	At this point, we have some late-session speeches, which I hope will be very concise and which I would urge to hold in two minutes each, because the day has been challenging.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u186	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, the fact that the speeches are short is a matter to be examined, because it seems to me that the Rules of Procedure prescribe that there are spaces for us that do not depend on your will. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is a practice that has been established, Senator Morra, otherwise there would be no end-of-session speeches. MORRA (M5S). But let us respect them, even if the House is empty, and I understand that perhaps we would be in a hurry: these, however, are duties. I feel it is my duty to report to the House what has been happening for months in Calabria, exactly in the province of Cosenza, in connection with what has already been the subject of my speech more than a month ago. The health of Calabria, and Cosentine in particular, has recently been shaken by the umpteenth scandal (and I say yet again not to say two billionth), because the scandals in Calabria are now on the agenda and we are no longer scandalized in the face of the thefts and the robberies that are always denounced by the judiciary. More than a month ago, in all probability it was even possible not to send a newspaper to the newsstands and the ongoing investigation is bringing out gold advice, for which the son of Senator Antonio Gentile of the NCD Group would be investigated, giving the exact measure of how in Calabria public spending in health is understood, that is to the benefit of few and to the detriment of all, especially the Calabrians, who would need to have garrisons and hospitals available to the emergencies of their communities. I say this because the stretch of the Tyrrhenian belt from Praia to Mare up to Paola risks to remain absolutely without sanitary garrisons, as already in its time the current Regional Council had decided to give the death to the hospital of Praia a Mare, a sort of excellence that had also budgets in active. If you think that today the hospital of Paola is at risk of closure, because of a landslide intervened for several months, involving at least for the moment the parking of the same, you understand very well in what situation you live this protection of the right to health. I would also like to stress to the House the need to study the Calabrian issues well, because in Calabria there is the Massicci table which looks more like a poker table than a table to resolve the problems of Calabrian health. Everyone says they want to solve them, offering advice and expertise, but in the end in Calabria we have less and less health care and more and more judicial investigations that take their course. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u189	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as many as 700,000 citizens, 700,000 (more than half of the inhabitants of my region, Abruzzo), without excluding hospitals and schools, have been supplied with contaminated water. This is not communicated to us by the condemned and currently our President of the Region Chiodi, as well as candidate for the center-right in the next regional elections in May, nor by the multi-stakeholder, the candidate for President of the Region for the center-left D'Alfonso. We are informed, President Gasparri, by the Higher Institute of Health, that it has analysed on behalf of the Vetting of the State the waters contaminated by the mega-dissemination of the poisons of Bussi. The information, the real information (not that of your newspapers and TVs), in Abruzzo the citizens made it. The 5 Star Movement, bringing together the activism of those who have understood that you will never think about solving the problems of the people, documented itself and made information presenting a study called "Abruzzo Green Region" and at the same time received criticism from the parties, who accused us and accused these citizens of creating unjustified alarm. The fact that contaminated water has been distributed in half of the region is not enough to justify the alarm? Or do we have to get to 100 percent of people who drink this water? The hard fact is that we are facing yet another test of how much our administrators have had so far about our health. I'll tell you, zero. Some Abruzzo MPs divided (as it were) between centre-right and centre-left now inform us of the enormous toxic risk. I wonder, on the contrary, the people of Abruzzo ask themselves: but so far where have you been? Where were you? You were and are in the institutions, all of you, no one excluded. The citizens, the Movement, have been asking for clarification of the situation of the SIN in Bussi for a long time, through questions. They have long been asking for what has been done by Commissioner Adriano Boio. These activities are still unknown to this day. The Abruzzo people are telling me today - as we are spokesperson - to ask the MPs of the D.P.D. more or less L. when they will finish pressing buttons, favoring with their vote every measure useful to great lobbyists and great friends. Once again, the importance and urgency of returning the institutions to Italian citizens is highlighted. I inform the Abruzzo people that they will have the first opportunity in May with a clean candidate, Sara Marcozzi, for the office of President of the Region and 29 citizens censored and far from the parties on which to put the trust of Abruzzo citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u192	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in Italy football is a phenomenon of great social and economic importance. If we consider the number of fans of the only Serie A teams and the revenues generated by the relative League, if we keep in mind the number of practitioners, or if we focus on the TV audience recorded during important matches played by the national team, we can safely say that football in Italy enjoys good health. Different speech if we refer to the ability of this phenomenon to attract spectators to the stadium. This difficulty is not recent. It has origins dating back to the period between the end of the seventies and the beginning of the eighties. Several factors, of course, have contributed to the emergence of this phenomenon: the inadequacy of the stadiums, the increasingly intrusive role of television, the lack of credibility of the results on the ground, supported by various scandals that have occurred over time, etc., etc. To these must be added the manifestations of phenomena of violence in the stadiums. In this regard, this weekend, particularly last Sunday, a very serious event happened in Mugnano, in the province of Naples. Unheard of violence took place during a football match that was taking place in a championship of excellence, between the teams of Giugliano and Virtus Volla. Well, there was a fight, with injured athletes and sports leaders being beaten by a group of people. Here, these episodes, in addition to being fought by us in the Serie A championships, are absolutely to be fought in these minor championships. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u193	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-217.ana.u194	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 27 March, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.
