ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.41).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u8	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Walter Tocci. He asked Senator Tocci to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, two opposing sentiments are straining my mind: backwardness and boldness. Retrosia comes from the concern to engage your attention and the precious time of this House on a mere personal initiative. I apologize to all of you. On the other hand, I thank those who, while not sharing my positions, expressed, simply with a word or a handshake, understanding for my gesture. It is very pleased to receive it, both from the senators of other groups and from my dear colleagues in my Democratic Party, as well as from the members of the management and from the secretary Matteo Renzi. The matter will be resolved by your secret vote and I will accept the result in any case. It is a form of parliamentary wisdom that the individual is no longer in control of his resignation and, therefore, for this very reason, is even more free to linger on his motives. Hence the boldness that allows me to speak to you without constraints, as if the resignation were already accepted, and to propose some reflections as a contribution to your future discussion. I have solved the dilemma between political responsibility and ideal coherence by combining a vote of confidence and resignation. It was a very personal gesture, but it is not about party rules, but rather about an institutional guarantee. The American President governs the world without having the party discipline of his senators. In that clear democracy, in fact, the concentration of power finds a counterweight in parliamentarians without a mandate. This freedom and the duty to represent the nation, i.e. the cornerstones written in Article 67 of our Constitution, fade away if it legislates in an ordinary way with the vote of confidence. On this instrument, however, we avoid the play of the parties to abuse them when they are in the majority and to criticize them when they are minority. It would be hypocritical to indulge in biased polemics, without seeing that today's problems are the result of a wrong twenty years. Reform has always meant weakening Parliament, promising faster decisions in return. Can we take stock of this illusion? We have lost a lot in the quality of democracy without gaining anything in the efficiency of government. They reduce voters' votes and increase the majority prizes to the parties. We risk the majority government in a minority democracy, as we have seen in the vote on Sunday. Politics is weakening, but it claims to do everything by itself, neglecting guarantees and counterweights, as is seen in the constitutional revision. Guarantees also decrease for workers, who can be fired with false motives. The economic ones are enough to hide the discriminatory ones. I really can't convince myself that we need to make the Monti-Fornero law worse in order to create development. The institutional and social guarantees always go back together. In today's world - not only in Italy for the truth - so-called structural reforms repudiate disputed democracy, as the great conservative thought called it in the time of the Restoration. Our present is turned to the past, without even being aware of it. A fury to announce himself, the new has become old, without producing any newness. The boldness, then, leads me to propose three current considerations on Parliament. Yes, unimaginable, because in contrast to the present time and, precisely for this reason, in favor of a future time. First consideration. In Italy the law has disappeared, not only because it is not respected, but also because it is no longer produced by Parliament, and the two shortcomings help each other. We still call them laws, but for a long time we have ratified, on a proposal from the Government, only clusters of fragmented, heterogeneous and improvised rules, making the daily lives of citizens, officials and businesses impossible. The parliamentary initiative remains the celebrations of events, corporate niches and territorial gifts. The executive is in charge of the legislative process. Over twenty years, governments have gained full power without knowing what to do with it: the right has not achieved the liberal revolution and the left has not implemented social reforms. The delegation to the government, therefore, has not strengthened the political decision - as was said - but has resulted in greater power of bureaucracy. We have taken the embankment that, in the rule of law, separates legislation and administration, thinking thus to proceed more expedited, but creating a regulatory muddle. On the contrary, it is necessary to separate the legislator from the bureaucrat to write good laws: few and really necessary, simple and really regulatory, readable and really respected. Returning the power of the law to Parliament is a simple reform and does not require a change of the Constitution, rather, to implement it. Second consideration. The long crisis has spread discord in the country: we are so afraid that we try to hide it, now almost a lustre, under the cloak of that governability that has made the country ungovernable due to the lack of alternative projects. The central party is wandering, while the social outskirts are shattered. In the domain of administration everything is already decided and whoever does not agree becomes a conservative or a rebel. On the contrary, in the sovereign parliament the law is always an uncertain work: it is the result of tension between the parties that clash and at the same time recognize and, in this way, discord is no longer an end in itself, but it produces a change. Today's Italy would need so much to represent its differences in this House so that they can recognize each other and change each other. There is a magic of Parliament in improving its components. It is in the true parliamentary dialectic that the parties are urged to re-elaborate the ideal and social motivations from which they originated. The movements that collected the protest have the opportunity of the proposal without getting lost in the sterile scream. Even among the individual parliamentarians, even the hardest of heart will have to admit that on the first day, on the solemnity of this place, they experienced an emotion, which prepared to put themselves at stake in the confrontation with the other. Third consideration. Everyone expects the decision that unlocks the country, like a sword that cuts the Gordian knot without even trying to dissolve it: it is an Italian myth of these times, but it is deeply anti-Italian in the long term. Which of you can point me in national history to a success achieved from above? The good things came when a policy conscious of not being able to do everything by itself has been able to help the reformers who in society were already realizing something new: from primary school, industrial districts, to the spread of Italian style in the world. Even more so, today we would need a Parliament to help the reformers and, first of all, recognize them. Instead of blocking ourselves in this House from rejecting amendments that are often unnecessary, more time - much more time - should be spent in parliamentary committees as laboratories for innovation, listening to the reinventing territories, young people opening new roads, administrations that amaze citizens, teachers who leave a gift in the lives of children, businesses that value work, scientists, experts and artists who would be happy to put themselves at the service of the country, as Senator Cattaneo repeats to us. To become aware of the virtues upon which one can rely is an exercise of national self-esteem that strengthens the moral principle. The rules are not enough to fight corruption if an entire people does not find their own Republican love. Yeah, I know. It's really inconvenient to imagine that the country's self-esteem is being taken care of here. Many unfortunate behaviors of individuals and groups have given cause for scandal, favouring a sort of reversal between cause and effect. It is said that Parliament has no power because it is not worthy, but Parliament is only worthy if it has real power. When he was no longer chancellor, Bismarck had regretted weakening the Reichstag, recognizing that the shareholders' inadequacy was not a plausible justification. Max Weber tells us this to show that the high or low rank of the institution depends first of all on its function, that is, to say it with his words: If the major problems are solved decisively by Parliament or if it is nothing other than the apparatus of consensus, which is unfortunately poorly tolerated, of a dominant bureaucracy. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u10	We shall now proceed to the vote on the discharge presented by Senator Tocci.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u13	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, Senator Tocci knows how many times the Senators of the Democratic Party have invited him to withdraw his resignation and how many times I myself have done so, not only for personal friendship, but even before - and above all - for strong political reasons. Senator Tocci recalled that the same request was made to him by the national direction of his party, by the secretary Renzi and also by the assembly of the senators, who did so with a unanimous and very prolonged applause, similar to what just ago greeted his speech. I therefore ask the Senate to reject the resignation of Senator Tocci, in the certainty that they will be rejected today and also that he will not resume them and will accept the decision of this House, as he told us just now. Senator Tocci, however, has also made some political considerations about which I must add a few words. I recall that he announced his resignation on the day of the vote on the delegation of work, on 8 October last. Soon after he voted for confidence in a measure that he did not agree with, he resigned from the Senate. Not by his group, nor by his party where, indeed, he reminded us at the same time that he wanted to continue his military career. His was a strong gesture, which confirms a coherent idea of the synthesis of freedom of mandate, what a political party is and how it should be part of it. I too - like other colleagues - sometimes found myself, like Walter Tocci, having to decide how to vote on measures of which I did not fully or partially share the content. In recent years, for example, I have been talking about fiscal compacts and the abolition of public funding for parties. On both occasions I voted in favour of those measures, although I do not share their merit. I did so not only out of party discipline, but even more after evaluating the parliamentary and political effects of my vote different from that of the Group. I would like to point out that the decision on the vote on measures which are not entirely shared is often of concern to each of us and concerns many aspects of our mandate and function. This is an issue which we must examine further and which concerns, as Senator Tocci has confirmed, our membership of a political party or a movement, but which cannot and must not lead to resignation from Parliament. This is not the time to deepen the considerations that Walter Tocci has just made on the very sensitive issue of the functioning of our parliamentary system. We have talked about this on several occasions, many Senators of the Democratic Party have done it, I have done it myself by observing the non-positive twist of the Italian parliamentary system, which in times that so often would need very timely decisions, presents, as it is configured today, substantial decision-making difficulties and leaves room for decree-laws, votes of confidence and omnibus measures. As I have been able to support many times, this process of impoverishing the role of Parliament cannot please anyone and I do not like it at all, but we must recognize that it has many fathers and origins far away: a wrong twenty years, Tocci said just now. The revision of the perfect bicameralism, present only in Italy among the 28 countries of the European Union, can be the useful instrument to give Parliament back the central role it must have. In addition to the questions raised by Tocci, there is the lack of will demonstrated in sixty years of Republic by all political forces, including the left, in which Tocci and I militate, to regulate Article 49 of the Constitution seriously on the democratic organisation of parties. In our time, Madam President, in which we are preparing to make profound changes in Parliament's structure and a new electoral law, it could be very useful to also meditate on the failure to implement the provisions of Article 49 of the Constitution. The democratic structure and rules of political parties are one of the most important moments of parliamentary democracy. I will conclude by again asking that Walter Tocci's resignation as a senator be rejected by this House, of course this House will reject them, because the Senate has nothing but to gain from having him among its members. And all the Senators of the Democratic Party want to be able to continue to listen to his arguments in the Chamber, in the Commission and in the frequent and highly attended assemblies of our Group. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u16	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am neither a constitutionalist nor a historian, but I am sure that the constituent Fathers, when they forged our Constitution, have foreseen that Members should act freely and without a mandate. When they decided this, they did not decide to allow Members to do their own good, to betray the electorate's mandate, to be sometimes turned around, certain others to care incorrectly for the interests of certain lobbyists. They did this to make the parliamentarians responsible and to tell them: You are responsible for what they vote. For example, if you vote on racial laws, you have a specific responsibility for it. I think Senator Tocci has shown in recent days how to exercise his mandate correctly. In the face of a measure he did not like, he finally decided to vote on it, but saying: I don't feel like being part of this team anymore. But, I resign, it's not like I'm changing coats. He gave us, I think, a lesson. I have known Walter Tocci since 1989: we met on the City Council of Rome. I am his political opponent; I conceive society differently from how Walter Tocci conceives it. However, I have always observed, for his part, education, constant commitment, honesty, good faith, deep roots in his ideas but respect for the different ideas of his political opponents. For this reason and for the way he behaves as a senator, I hope that the Senate rejects his resignation, I hope that he will continue to be with us: as far as Forza Italia is concerned, we will always be his loyal political opponents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups and Senators Bell and Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we say at once that we will reject the resignation of Senator Tocci precisely because we share to a large extent his lucid and unfortunately precise analysis of the situation in which we are exercising our parliamentary mandate today. Above all, we share the very clear analysis of the last twenty years of this country, in which we witness day after day (it has been the subject of our discussion even in the course of constitutional reforms) the emptying of the role of Parliament, obtained through various forms, various instruments. Unfortunately, this is the everyday life of our reality, with the abuse of the vote of confidence and of the decree-laws and therefore with the failure of what should be the expression of Parliament, which is here in accordance with Article 1 of our Constitution: we are here precisely because we represent the citizens and this is the place of representation of the sovereignty of the citizens themselves. At the same time, in these twenty years, the control of political parties over parliamentarians has also become almost exclusive, increasingly stronger. Madam President, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we are discussing the draft electoral law; we know what it has meant (this is the third legislature in which this happens) to be elected by an electoral law, which has then been declared partly unconstitutional, on blocked lists, so where the relationship of subordination to the party has become almost the only way to enter Parliament. In my view, this has seriously called into question Article 67 of the Constitution. Compared to what Tocci wanted to highlight today, not only in his speech, but with the gesture of voting on the trust on the jobs act that he did not share and immediately after resigning, I would like to say once again, dear Walter, that this is the eternal dilemma between what he calls political responsibility and coherence to his ideals; it is that for which I have always had a great passion for Antigone, who chooses to respect, to respect his ideals, and therefore to the law of nature with respect to the law of the State. Today, however, that dilemma is not declined in the same way, but interpreted as the choice to make an act of courage, always and continuously, out of respect for one's ideals, in front of those who hold the levers of power. Today, in fact, this opposition or this dichotomy between coherence to one's ideals and obedience no longer refers to obedience to the party, dear Walter: in this case, for those transformations that have occurred in recent years in our country, it risks becoming only and only obedience or a sense of loyalty to a leader of the party or, as in this case, the leader of the Government. Madam President, I would like to address all my colleagues: we must reflect on what is happening in the country, on the great gap between citizens and institutions and, in particular, Parliament; we must reflect on the vertical crisis of representative democracy and on the mass flight - almost - from the vote, which we saw in the elections on Sunday. This should show us that citizens are likely to ask us loudly to be consistent, rather than obedient; to be consistent not only generically with ideals, but also consistent with our commitments, with the commitments made during the election campaign, with the programs that have presented themselves to the citizens; consistent with the general interest of the country, rather than the abstract one of trust in the government itself. It is, therefore, perhaps the time has come when the dilemma of Antigone must be dissolved more and more towards the choice of Antigone: here we must have the strength - because sometimes we need a great strength - to be consistent with our ideals and to compare them with others. The parliamentary dialectic, which so much has evoked Walter in his speech, can be strengthened only and only if we are honest and serious, through the comparison of our ideas and ideals. I believe that today it is absolutely necessary to make the element of coherence prevail, that is to say to uphold the law of a nature intended in this sense, precisely because the drama that has been pointed out to us precisely by the mass desertion from the elections, is a matter that concerns each of us. And I regret that the President-in-Office of the Council wanted to consider the element of participation in the vote to be secondary; it is, on the other hand, a fundamental element of democracy. I believe that today we must not resign from this House, dear Walter, but continue to stand in here to fight for our own ideas, to carry out our own projects, to continue to contribute to the general interests of the country. At this moment, in fact, it is consistency what the citizens ask of us, so each of us must make this prevail. For this reason, we will reject Walter's resignation. Senator Carraro spoke first (with him and with Senator Tocci we are old comrades of Junta municipale) and we have seen the recognition also from the political opponents (but it is certainly not my case). Here, too, dear Walter, we have waged tough battles to make general interests prevail once again over certain group interests, which may have fallen behind party interests. Those battles, which you've always carried on, you have to keep carrying them on in here. For this reason, we ask everyone to reject Senator Tocci's resignation. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u20	We greet the students and students of the Classical High School "Giustino Fortunato" in Pisticci. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u23	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is clear that the resignation of Senator Tocci is an expression of an individual choice, but also of a dissension and wider malaise within the Democratic Party. We do not want to go into the substance of this debate, believing that it is not up to us to do so, but, knowing the President-in-Office of the Council, we are certain that in drawing up the lists for the next political elections he will find a way of tarnishing internal dissent in the way he is used to acting. Of Senator Tocci we especially appreciated the speeches during the debate on constitutional reform that saw the Senate engaged last July. These were balanced interventions, which wanted to place the senate's attention on the need to maintain a balance between the powers within our Constitution, the centrality of Parliament and the role of voters, so that they could choose their own representatives. His interventions have therefore always been linked to deep and deep-rooted convictions and criticism, never dictated by opportunisms or pretexts, were instead of merit, detailed and above all expressed openly and in the light of the sun, not through the secret vote. We therefore appreciate your behavior, which I believe deserves everyone's appreciation. Sometimes, the boundary between freedom of conscience and opportunism dictated by personal conveniences is very subtle. However, we do not believe that we are in this situation and that is why we hope that the Senate will vote against the resignation of Senator Tocci, considering that his contribution in this House can still be useful and important and that it is his duty to end the mandate that has been given to him by the voters. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u26	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, we have moved from an electoral system such as the proportional one, which was in force until the 1990s, with more preference, to the single preference, to the majority and to the blocked lists, but to the citizens and the sovereign people it is not that it is very interested: once the rules have been written, the game is made on them, and, once, in one way or another, one has been elected, it is here that the battle must be waged, only here and it must not run away. Of course, I realize that a cultural difference distinguishes me and Senator Tocci, because I, unlike him, when a law does not share it, do not vote it. I would like to remind you that, at the time I was a member of the House, when my group told me to vote on the Severino law, I was one of the seven who did not vote on it. This, however, is a matter that distinguishes us and distinguishes us: if they told me to vote against divorce, abortion or assisted procreation, I would not do it, because I have a completely different culture. For example, I distinguish myself from my colleague Giovanardi - I make a random name - because I am in favour of short divorces and de facto unions, as evidenced by the various draft laws that I have presented, as well as by my colleague D'Anna, who is here with me. I heard Senator Zanda wish he wouldn't resign. I think I can also speak on behalf of my entire Group in saying to Senator Tocci, to the Neapolitan, since there are also Neapolitan senators in our Group: you adda died, because here we will always vote against your resignation. My final consideration is that your speech was a high and important one, but that we already knew, that intervention you should have done in the direction of your party and your group: I think it was done there, where there is someone who may not have understood it yet. For this reason, with regard to the issue of the bond of mandate that our constituent Fathers wanted to assert in the Constitution that we know perfectly well, we are opposed to the resignation, as we were opposed - in homage to popular sovereignty - to the expulsion of some senators, through interpretative and legislative forces, that they should not be cast out because democracy is this: who is elected must remain in the political race, take the insults - as we are all doing now - and try to lead the country towards development, the occupation that it deserves and that we responsibly must pursue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u29	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I met Walter Tocci many years ago when, engaged in Rome against the abuse and speculation of real estate and scholar of the great contemporary urbanists, he already pursued the dream of a modern and efficient capital capable of enhancing its priceless beauties and of obtaining wealth and innovation from the many research centres present on this territory, capable of transforming and, together, protecting and making accessible the monuments of a multi-millennial history. Then, after more years, I was lucky enough to collaborate with him in the Junta Rutelli. Tocci has been the protagonist of that season of great urban, social, economic and cultural transformation of this city and has been inspiring all its administrative action to the same dream. Tocci merged political idealism, sometimes extreme until utopianism, with urban utopianism in his vision. In the name of this ideality he pursued a sort of reformist extremism that led him not often to clash with the forces of conservation, what were the forms with which it materialized and manifested itself: the politics (very often), the parties (also) especially those of the left, the unions that in the great Roman municipalities had often consocially shared or at least kept silent on the bad administration and rents of position of privileged workers and had been not secondary part of their industrial and financial degeneration and those builders who had devastated Rome with speculation. Tocci was the bishop of change and innovation and what modern and efficient has been achieved in this city in those years is also due to its decisive role. Each of these results was the result of clashes between sectors of Roman society: from the Superintendences to taxi drivers, from traders to the same citizens who in some neighborhoods opposed to completely normal interventions in any capital Europe, but who for Rome were a revolution. And again it was Walter Tocci's idea to define a new statute for capital, something similar to what the great world capitals had for decades (from Washington, London, Paris), then translated with much trivialization and impoverishment into the constitutional norm of reform of 2001. Each Tocci battle led him as a cultured person, with intellectual honesty and with exceptional civic passion, sometimes bitter for the misunderstandings of his own party. I believe that intellectual passion and honesty are the basis of the torment that Tocci lives today and that in this month finds him so distant from his party that he perceives he is moving away from the values that inspired his life, his political passion, his reformism. I understand and respect his discomfort even if I am in deep dissension. Meanwhile, I would also like to remind Tocci (but he should remember) that precisely the strengthening of the Executive at local level provided for by Law No 81, according to which only the mayor is elected while all the other nominated, has allowed to realize urban revolutions (including that of Tocci) very often despite the reluctance and opposition of the council organ elective. Thus, democracy manifests itself through complex forms. Personally, then, I do not share the reasons and the analysis of the undoubted weakening of Parliament, the parties and their ruling class, of which I give a completely different reading. My opinion, in fact, is that at the origin of the phenomenon of the weakening of representative institutions and parties that embody them is, quite the contrary, the fact that they did not have the ability and the courage to assume the responsibility to make reforms, to give solutions to the problems of the country, in the name of an idea of democracy that made mediation prevail over the principle of majority, thereby recognizing a continuous power of ban on minorities, pressure groups and corporations. The result was immobilism, renunciation to decide and all this slowed the economic, social and cultural growth of the country and produced the bad results of which today the political class is called to respond with very angry and exasperated citizens. That is why, despite the diversity of opinions and positions, I believe that the fundamental principle of every democratic institution must be recovered, the only one that can guarantee its functioning, namely the principle of majority voting, the only one to ensure pluralism and functionality of Parliament and of parties. For this reason, in full respect, but also dissenting from the reasons outlined by Senator Tocci, I believe that the Senate cannot and should not deprive itself of its contribution, its intelligence and its passion. That is why I shall vote against his resignation. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u32	MINEO (PD). Madam President, I would need clarification: why on such a strictly parliamentary issue - we have all heard Walter Tocci's speech - has the Conference of Leaders decided that only the Leaders can speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not the Conference of Group Leaders that has decided, but it is Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure which provides that explanations of vote are for one Senator for each Group for ten minutes; the same option is granted to senators who wish to intervene in dissent. The explanations of vote have just been heard. MINEO (PD). I know that, but that wasn't my question. I wanted to know if there was any debate on a matter such as the resignation of a senator. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. MINEO (PD). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u33	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Tocci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u34	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable by a majority until 5 December. The arguments already foreseen for the current week remain confirmed, with the clarification that the bill on the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation will be examined after the motions scheduled. At tomorrow afternoon's Question Time, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will answer questions on issues relating to the disposal of public holdings and the management of public debt, as well as on fiscal simplification measures. Next week the Assembly will meet again from 5 p.m. on Tuesday 2 December with the examination of the draft law delegation in the field of work, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies, linked to the financial maneuver and therefore with the allocation of time and regime amendments under Rule 126-a of the Rules of Procedure. In addition to the possible follow-up to the unfinished topics, the documents defined by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, the bill on the return of capital held abroad, where concluded by the Commissions, as well as the bill made in accordance with Article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, concerning the identification of members of the Forces of Order, will be discussed. The timetable also provides for the President's communications, pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure on the content of the bill of stability, which will be placed on the agenda of the Assembly in relation to the timing of transmission of the provision by the Chamber of Deputies. If necessary, a meeting will also be held on Friday 5 December. The budget session will then begin. The Permanent Commissions will have to forward their opinions to the Budget Commission by Thursday 11 December. The further terms and times of the session will be defined in detail at a forthcoming Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u35	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of October, November and December 2014: - Drawing of Law n. 1428-B - Delegations to the Government on the reform of social shock absorbers, labour services and active policies, as well as on the reordering of the discipline of labour relations and inspection and the protection and conciliation of the needs of care, life and work (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (Collegato alla maneuvera di fiscale) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of Law n. 1642 - Provisions in the matter of emergence and return of capital held abroad as well as for the strengthening of the fight against tax evasion. Provisions in the matter of autocycling (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 803 - Provisions in the matter of identification of members of the Forces of the Order (made precisely by the Mixed Group, pursuant to Rule 53, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u36	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings until 5 December: [[Wednesday 26 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Vote on the resignation submitted by Senator Tocci (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) - Following motions on the international treatment of the PKK - Motions on policies for childhood and adolescence - Motions on the diffusion of electronic payment systems - Drawing of law n. 922 - Trafficking of organs intended for transplantation Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 November pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on: - questions relating to the disposal of public holdings and the management of public debt; - measures relating to tax simplification]] [[Tuesday, December 2nd pom. h. 17-20 - Drawing of law n. 1428-B - Work delegation (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Following unfinished arguments - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys - Drawing of law n. 1642 - Return of capital held abroad and self-laundering (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commissions) - Drawing of law n. 803 - Identification of members of the Forces of the Order (made by the Mixed Group, pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure on the content of the bill of stability (*) Wednesday 3 " anti. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Friday 5 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Amendments to draft law No 1428-B (Work permit) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 1 December. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 1642 (Return of capital held abroad and autocycling) and 803 (Identification of members of the Forces of Order) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. (*) Immediately after the President's communications, the draft Stability and Budget Laws will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. The Commission will forward its reports to the Budget Commission by Thursday 11 December. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1428-B (Labour delegation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' PI 18' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we have voted against this timetable. First of all, because we believe that the time available for the examination of an act as important as the draft law delegates to work, to which they are reserved, for discussion, only seven hours, therefore excluding explanations of vote, is absolutely too narrow compared to what the bill mentioned above implies. I would like to remind you that we are certainly not faced with a decree, and that it has been declared linked to the maneuver of stability and public finance, but that obviously there is not the same haste for other bills always linked to the law of stability, such as the environmental connection. Therefore, we do not believe that the time available is sufficient: also because the provision was formally assigned this morning, after it arrived from the House. So, we would need more time for discussion. This is a first issue that we raise. The other issue, Madam President, is very serious, which I am now putting to the attention of the Conference of Leaders with a certain regularity during all its meetings. In this House, after the decision of the Asbestos Supreme Court, a debate took place in which almost all political forces, and perhaps all the groups, expressed dismay and purposed to intervene. Initiatives, meetings and fake assumption of responsibility were followed. But one of the issues that is certainly right for the story that concerns not only asbestos, but other situations of serious pollution that have put the lives of thousands of people at risk, can be dealt with seriously only and only if this country, after years and years (it is now spoken of by four legislators), will finally include, within the penal code, environmental crimes. It is no longer tolerable, Madam President, to continue to cover up this measure and postpone it. Therefore, we have once again asked, as I had done even an hour and a half before the famous ruling, to include the draft law on environmental crimes, which, among other things, comes from the House and has been in the attention of the Environment and Justice Commissions for a very long time now. I also say to you, Mr President, that we believe that the measure should be included in the timetable immediately after the examination of the arguments indicated by the oppositions and before the draft law on the adoption of minors by foster families is dealt with. I find it very serious, Mr President, that, after everyone has gone around these days to make communications and meetings, to make commitments with the associations of the family members of the victims, the meeting of the Leaders, by majority, once again, has decided not to do their work, also giving an indication of urgency to the two Commissions to finally see the landing in this House of the bill and its subsequent approval. This was the least because hypocrisy is no longer possible, Mr President; it can no longer be seen that those who tear their clothes up then do not do their duty as legislators, that is to schedule the examination of the bill that inserts environmental crimes in the penal code. We have taken on a serious responsibility, once again in front of families, and I hope that this House, by voting in favour of this proposal, will take on a responsibility which, on the other hand, the Leaders did not want to assume. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u42	MARINELLO (NCD). Madam President, I have listened to Senator De Petris' arguments and, to be honest, I would like to make the House aware of a number of fundamental steps. In the meantime, I would like to add that there is quite rightly a lot of hypocrisy, but there is also the hypocrisy of the indignant. On this subject, I would like to say that the time has come for the tabling of amendments, which expired on Monday at 6 p.m. this week. 200 amendments were tabled to the measure by the various Members of the various Groups. President Palma, in absolute agreement with me, therefore with the agreement of both Commissions, asked the presidency of the Senate to assess the derogation from the regulatory rule that prevents the examination of such measures during the budgetary session. If the Senate presidency so authorizes, the two Commissions will certainly not escape, but consider that there are conditions to arrive, within a matter of a few days, at the examination of the measure in this House is a great hypocrisy. So, using these arguments on such sensitive issues, from my point of view, is politically disdainable. Without considering, Mr President, a final remark: this is a serious and important subject, but for this reason the serious and important issues must be evaluated, meditated and analysed seriously. Using them as possible stopovers for a week where the burden of parliamentary work can presumably be less important or less characterized, I do not think it is a good argument at all. I have made this speech on my behalf - and I also think of the President of the Commission as justice - so that the Members of this House, in voting, beyond the arguments of Senator De Petris, have all the elements to be able to assess. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). He's been in the Commission for nine months!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u45	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say that we share the concern expressed by Senator De Petris because this text was fired by the House in March. The deadline for tabling amendments has been fixed several times in May and has been postponed several times. So, the process that is taking this measure worries us very much. I would also like to say to my colleague, Mr President of the Environment Commission, that clearly wanting to schedule the measure in this House means giving the Commission a clear timetable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]] We support this position: we give certain times and we do not end up, as in other legislation, in order not to deal with the subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u46	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u47	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00333, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, 1-00352, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00354, presented by Senator Tonini and other senators, and 1-00356, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, on the international treatment of the PKK. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the presenters presented the motions and the debate took place. I communicate that the G1 unitary agenda has been presented, signed by Senators Tonini, Paolo Romani, Lucidi, De Cristofaro and others, whose text is in distribution. At the same time, all motions have been withdrawn. I call on the presenters to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u48	Madam President, I would just like to say that the convergence of the documents presented was clear, particularly in identifying the Kurdish issue as a very important issue that is being addressed in its complexity. There is, of course, also the problem of the PKK within this issue, of which we all want a positive solution through negotiations with Turkey. The text of the G1 unitary agenda, therefore, commits the Government to support in all political and diplomatic fora the cause of the political autonomy of the Kurds, within the states to which they belong and respecting their territorial integrity, in a framework of full protection of human rights; to work to further encourage, including through the European Union, a positive development of the ongoing negotiations between the Government of Ankara and the PKK, so that an agreement is reached that puts the conditions for the removal of the PKK from the EU list of terrorist organisations; to promote, also in the European Union, confrontation actions that allow the Kurdish regional authorities to reach and guarantee the desired political stability by reappropriating themselves to the maximum of their ethnic, cultural, social and economic identity; finally, to promote initiatives, including at European level, in order to obtain guarantees of renouncing the armed struggle, by Kurdish extremist groups, and that they commit themselves to pursue a political and peaceful process of internal reconciliation, thus to initiate dialogue and negotiation between the parties and with the national authorities, with a view to determining a fair, lasting and including the political autonomy of the Kurdish, but also without undermining autonomy, but also to strengthen the security of internal reconciliation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u49	I'm asking for a moment's interruption, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u50	Please, I would ask everyone who is speaking in this House - and I am particularly addressing the hemicycle on my right - to lower the voice, please, because it is really complicated. I'm asking you, please. Please, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). I have concluded, Madam President. Of course, the Democratic Party has withdrawn its motion and shares the agenda on which the other groups have merged. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u51	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u52	Madam President, I could just say that the Government salutes the valuable work we have done in these hours to achieve a unified text and to restrict it to accession, but I will not do so. Let me briefly say a few things, because it does not happen often (but it happens more often to the Senate, than to the House) to be able to create a debate (which was then interrupted by lunch) that allows to reach a point of conclusion, I hope widely shared (if not unanimous) by this House in order to put some firm points on events that are important and topical. I say this because, having spent several years in the Chamber of Deputies, I know how strongly the temptation on the part of the individual leaders of the political forces to license and put in some way a flag on issues that have to do with great international battles. On the other hand, I know today, working on this side of Parliament's benches, on the side of the Government, how much more valuable and stronger it is to have positions on which a vast majority of political forces recognize themselves. This gives a whole other strength and impact when it comes to working for those same causes in international fora. In this particular case, this morning's debate, which also had some attention, has made it possible to highlight the existence of three different problems, obviously interwoven with each other (but still different): the one that generated the debate, that is, the subject of the PKK delisting; the more general one to which many speakers have referred in the Kurdish question, which is obviously not a question of either Turkey or the PKK alone; that, more general, of the contingent moment when the Kurds fit into the more general fight against Daesh's expansion. I believe that the debate allows us to reach these conclusions, which are very well represented in the unitary text that the Senate will shortly be voting on. First, the more general frame, the wider one, of the battle against the Daesh, is clearly a theme that needs to be evaluated moment by moment, day by day, within the conditions that are created on the ground and in the vast coalition that today supports the battle against this extremist and jihadist threat. Mr Ergo, in my opinion it was not appropriate for a debate to be held on a very specific objective (i.e. that of the PKK) to give guidance to the Government; in fact, these indications are actually collected by the Executive at other locations and at other times, for example, when the Foreign and Defence Ministers respond to the Commissions in the joint Chamber and Senate and regularly update the outcome of this battle. There is a second subject on which I would like to say a few more words: I am referring to the Kurdish issue in general. It has been rightly recalled that we are presumably faced with the largest people without a state that exists on earth today; there are probably over 30 million Kurds spread across four different countries (not out of three as has often been recalled): Iraq, Syria, Turkey and also Iran. In all four countries this presence is double-digit. We are talking about minorities ranging from more than 10% to almost 25% of the population of those countries and we are also talking about a very different story between them. In very synthetic terms, there is little news about the Kurdish issue in Iran, which is one of the many important minorities, but on average well integrated into the Iranian fabric and represented politically. Until recently, modest attention was paid to the issue of Syrian Kurds and today, however, it emerged with all its strength in what the Syrian Kurds call Rojava, that is, the western part of Syria, and since the PYD, that is, the political and military organization, has become one of the main fronts of resistance to the spread of ISIS. More known were the other two great minorities, and one is the one in Iraq, which is a real autonomous region, which is the one with which, moreover, this Government - like the other Western governments - held relations during the dramatic course of the events of this summer, in order to try to guarantee, thanks to the consent of Parliament, that right to self-defence that accompanied the protection of the minorities fleeing from the city of Mosul and the plain of Nineveh. Iraqi Kurdistan is the one scourged - as you have repeatedly recalled from your speeches - by Saddam Hussein's campaign, during the 1990s, and then protected by a no-fly zone: a very structured and strong reality, even with additional ambitions - as is well known - compared to the status of overall autonomy that Erbil already enjoys today compared to Baghdad. It is a political dynamic that has always been structured on two great political forces, the UPK and the PDK, of the two Talabani and Barzani clans, but which already sees - for example - a whole new dynamic, with the presence in the last elections of a third party that challenged this duopoly. Alongside that condition there is the last, which is actually originated this debate, which is that of Turkey. It is probably the most important experience and also the most dramatic from a political point of view. The progressive construction of Turkish identity, in fact, after the fall of the Ottoman Empire, has tended for many decades to compress the demands, even before political, cultural and identity of this very important component. In this great reality I would like to reiterate something that has been emphasized, for example, by Senator Tonini and which is reflected on the unitary agenda: the Italian, European and international commitment (the European one with only two exceptions: one relating to Kosovo and the other, always in progress, concerning the future State of Palestine) has always tended to guarantee, in the analysis of conflict resolution, the integrity of territorial states. All our efforts, therefore, made in Macedonia, in the numerous instances concerning the Caucasus, the Nagorno-Karabakh, the Balkans, Bosnia-Herzegovina or Cyprus, have always tended, when there was a conflict between different minorities or between majorities and minorities, to find the overall measure of respect for one another in forms of autonomy and federalism that would protect the territorial integrity of the State. I repeat that there are only two exceptions: that of Kosovo and that of the future or future of Palestine. For this reason we generally allude to Kurdistan as a geopolitical entity, but we are always faced with four different entities that have four different paths and four different statuses, depending on the reality in which they are located. Finally, there is the theme that is very emphasized by the motion of the Left Ecology and Freedom, centred instead on the theme of the PKK, which found in the Government more than an objection an integration. The PKK is the most well-known and visible experience of Kurdish political militancy in Turkey; moreover, those with long enough parliamentary experience recall how much the story of the PKK and the personal story of Abdullah Ocalan also crossed the parliamentary events of the late 1990s. Today, however, it is no longer the only political experience in the field: there are at least two other Kurdish parties represented in the Ankara Parliament, which therefore contend with a plurality of positions also to the PKK itself. For this reason, in my opinion, the agenda is in the right direction because, in addition to being united, it recovers the overall figure of the Kurdish question not only in its Turkish declination; it places, legitimately and rightly, the complicated but constant dialogue between the PKK and the Government of Ankara in the perspective of recognizing the political reasons of the Kurds, but at the same time in the process of demilitarization of the PKK. It is a very complicated subject that has also crossed the recent chronicle of Kobane: it is therefore a question of how to guarantee, on the one hand, a right of self-defense, but on the other that tomorrow that same formation is ready to be demilitarized. And the role of the European Union is placed against the backdrop of this more comprehensive negotiation. I therefore believe, if the Senate joins unanimously or broadly on this agenda that unifies the various motions presented, that our country, the Government and Parliament will be stronger tomorrow to be able to bring and represent these requests into national and international fora. By nature I am in favour of consensual solutions, but I repeat that this is just one of those circumstances in which to reach a good compromise, even if it lowers the level of visibility of the individual political forces, it gives the whole country and Parliament an extra degree of strength to represent those positions outside. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Di Biagio and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u56	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, without wanting to repeat all the reasoning already put forward in the general debate, I would just like to point out that it seems to us that all the comments and objections we have made concerning one of the motions have been incorporated on the agenda, although we believe that it would have been more dignified to acknowledge the real request that the Kurdish people have been making for years, namely that they should be recognised as an entity. It is clear that it is important for them to be recognized as entities, as ethnic groups, as geopolitical areas, using the expression of the Deputy Minister. Recognizing four autonomous realities and pretending that this happens and that the whole international community is working for this, surely means taking a step in this direction, but also leaving open a problem, when there are brothers and sisters are still divided by national borders, perhaps having different guarantees and safeguards, because Syria, Iraq, Turkey and Iran will give different attention to these regions, to these satellites, which we hope to be more and more autonomous. We therefore feel that in essence we share what has been written and perhaps also to remember what this people has already done and what it has given to the international community: the only ones who have stopped the advance of the cutthroat of that area, which has now become a terrorist state, were in fact these ruthless Kurds, who with difficulty also had to cross borders, which have been hindered and which, armed in a summary way, have effectively hindered the advance of ISIS. We hope that another state which can and would also like to take action in this direction may be involved, but which is being held in the way, or on the door, by the international community: I am referring to Russia, which is fighting terrorism in Chechnya at home, where other fundamentalist movements are found, which have precisely provoked terrorist acts and victims and have massacred the people of the Russian area. If the Russian Federation were involved in this operation, aimed at hindering the advance of the State of the cutthroat, it would not be a small matter. Certainly it should be involved and not continue to maintain irrational sanctions against Russia, which penalise us - the people who sanction - and Italy, as a sanctioning nation, much more than the sanctioned nation. (17.56) (Follow DIVINE). I therefore declare the League's vote in favour of the G1 agenda, which brings together the four motions originally tabled. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u59	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am speaking very quickly because I do not intend to repeat the things I have already said in the afternoon sitting when the motion was put forward. We will of course be voting in favour of this agenda, which also bears my signature. I would like to repeat a concept that I have already expressed this morning about the story of Mexican students: on some very serious and sensitive events of foreign policy, my Group and I are convinced - as Vice Minister Pistelli said and in this I agree with him - that sometimes the bar should be lowered and therefore not say exactly what you think, but achieve a good compromise. This is an exemplary case, from this point of view. We think that the compromise that has been reached is positive; it introduces some elements of novelty, which I hope the Italian Parliament and our country know how to make a lot of use of in the coming days. We believe that a wall that has existed over the past few years has finally been ripped open, a very high wall that is very difficult to break, and that somehow it has cracked the hypocrisy that had characterized so much of our political debate over the past few years. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the G1 agenda, considering it to be an acceptable and politically positive political compromise. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u62	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, more than a compromise, the G1 agenda, which was first signed by Senator Tonini, marks a balance. I think it was right for the government representative to point out all the reasons why, compared to this morning, we cannot talk so much about a step back from Mr De Cristofaro's motion. That text tended to limit all the implications of the Kurdish question today to the Turkish aspect (I come to the third front of the intervention of Deputy Minister Pistelli), stiffening the respectable question of the history and the story of the PKK. Today, the Kurdish question is extremely topical. I fully welcome, in the intervention of my Divine friend, the praise to the heroism of the peshmerga, this glorious army of an autonomous region. On the other hand, I would not accept entirely, not only and not so much - if you will allow me - the 'putinism' that is pre-emptive and exaggerated, but the fact that today the Kurdish question, precisely for the reasons he emphasized, is very different from the way it stood against the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, after the First World War. The Kurdish question was then, neither more nor less, than a national state claim. Defeat. Maybe defeated by deception. Defeat like another great question of national vindication, that of the State of Israel, which found satisfaction only in the following post-war period. Today, just taking up the front dear to my colleague De Cristofaro, the Turkish front, there was a Kurdish candidate opponent of Erdogan in the presidential elections (on August 10, with some colleagues in the House, we were there as OSCE): it is the Kurdish candidate Demirtas. With the Italian delegation's colleagues we chose to follow the elections in Diyarbakir, which is not like the capital of the autonomous Iraqi region Erbil, but in the Turkish elections it was the most important city. There the Kurdish candidate arrived at 70-75 percent. This candidate was not from the PKK, but belonged to a political formation that we can call a centrist, without making the history of the Kurdish vote (which I cannot do); he probably did not full of all the Kurdish vote in Turkey, but he came to the most respectable result of 10% and obviously hoped that he would go to the presidential ballot, in order to negotiate with more arguments a second-round support in Erdogan that would strengthen autonomy, not in the sense of a national state, of unification of the people, but in the sense recalled a short while ago by the representative of the government. So, from this point of view, the presence, since this morning, of Mr Tonini's motion has allowed us to arrive at a more balanced text that respects all the current implications of the Kurdish question. If we wanted to go to Turkey in relation to Europe, as Senator Divina did this morning (but not in an explanation of vote), then I would leave it alone, rather I would be careful. When the United States of America pressed the European Union to accept Turkey in Europe (we were in 2003), Turkey throughout the century had been the West, the West and the West. They were jokingly called the Bulgarians of NATO; indeed, the somewhat vulgar arguments with which on the part of Chirac, Schroeder and Prodi complained that Berlusconi had gone to the marriage of Erdogan's daughter were: it is a country too friendly with Israel and the United States of America. Then Erdogan changed his shoulder to the rifle, but I have the impression that he made us so little on the front of Islamist extremism (in which he is not standard head, he is not number one, neither two, nor three, nor four), that I do not think we should kick him out of any Western perspective. Hence the strong vote of the NCD Group in favour of the text drafted by friend Tonini. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u65	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement will vote strongly in favour of the G1 agenda that we have worked on together with the Deputy Minister. In any case, I would also like to explain or say that in any case terrorism is a serious danger for all humanity and will be more and more so if we do not take action for a concrete solution, to be tackled with legal and political rigour. And maybe today we start this path. A real paradox, which must be pointed out and corrected, is represented by the Kurdish Workers' Party, which for more than thirty years has been carrying out, through various means and instruments, the fight for the rights of the Kurdish people, which has long been crushed and repressed by the Turkish Government. The Kurdish question is strategic for the whole of the Middle East. Right within the PKK, under the leadership of Abdullah Ocalan, the most profitable, acceptable and interesting positions have emerged in this regard, based on the theory of democratic confederalism, which could undoubtedly form the basis for solving the problems of Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran itself, crossing national borders. This is not on a sectarian basis, as ISIS terrorists claim, but in a democratic way, respecting the various ethnic groups and religious beliefs, practicing self-determination on a territorial basis. It is not by chance that men, and also women militarily organized in special female combat brigades, Kurds and Kurds, have long been at the forefront of the war against fundamentalist terrorism, first in Syria and now also and especially in Iraq, fighting to defend all Christian minorities. The Kurdish forces, like the PKK, constitute the core of resistance in the camp against the Islamic State; a resistance that sees in the front row the organized militias of women in which the inhabitants of the regions under attack are merging, breaking ethnic and religious divisions. In any case, the 5 Star Movement wants to reiterate and here also to stigmatize the hypocritical behavior that the Italian Government has held, because, as a member of the UN, it approved the resolution that defined the PKK as a terrorist organization, but then, as a member of NATO, it had no hesitation in arming the PKK in actions, pinpointed, against ISIS. In any case, we will vote positively on the agenda with its four points of commitment, among which I stress point 3 - which calls for political stability, allowing the Kurdish regional authorities to make full use of their ethnic, cultural, social and economic identity. I hope we will have the opportunity to come to an immediate solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u68	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in thanking Deputy Minister Pistelli and his colleagues who have worked to arrive at a single agenda, I would particularly like to thank Mr De Cristofaro, who had the merit of bringing this very important issue to the House. In a nutshell, I would like to stress that there is a historical factor, which is a great opportunity for the Kurds of Iraq and Syria: it is the weakening of the central governments of these two countries. It opens up the opportunity to gain recognition of their civil rights and, hopefully, their political autonomy. In order to finally give a stable solution to the Kurdish question, we must immediately seize the opportunity of the movement of international solidarity which follows the heroic resistance put in place by the peshmerga against ISIS in northern Iraq, especially the resistance in the city symbol of Kobane by the Syrian Kurds and their People's Protection Units. That of the Kurdish people - as Vice-Minister Pistelli pointed out earlier - is the largest nation without state in the world. In the past months, the Turkish government seemed to behave like Stalin's army in front of the takeover of Warsaw by the Nazis, witnessing the attack of the militiamen of ISIS, an attack fortunately rejected, also thanks to the permission, then finally granted, that Kobane was strengthened by a group of 200 peshmerga passed through Turkey by Iraqi Kurdistan. This unitary agenda is a strong invitation to the Italian Government to mobilize in all international fora so that the Kurdish question can be resolved. It would not only be an acknowledgment to this people, who, without having a state, have already been able to give themselves a democratic order, but also a real geopolitical revolution in the Middle East. There is no realistic talk of the constitution of a Kurdish state, because the approximately 30 million Kurds are divided between Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran, with small minorities also in Azerbaijan and Armenia, but at least the recognition of that democratic confederalism to which the Kurdish people aspire in all its components. The premise is of course also in overcoming internal divisions, which the threat of the Caliphate has helped to mitigate. To arrive at the unitary agenda - I must say - Forza Italia has renounced one of its qualifying points, such as the request for direct Italian participation in the western bombings against ISIS. We believe that humanitarian aid is not enough, nor is the delivery of arms to Kurdish fighters in order to win what is a real war of civilization against the ISIS cutthroat. But we think it is more important that the Senate should be able to express itself in a united way today for the Kurdish cause. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli's FI-PdL XVIIe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u71	Mr Corsini (PD). Madam President, I would like to make a few comments, because we share the spirit and the letter of Mr Tonini's speech and of the reply from the Deputy Minister, Mr Pistelli, who seems to me once again to have given ample proof of the high degree of cognition that he cultivates about the international problems and the reliability with which he manages his role. I believe that Mr De Cristofaro's initiative, which first presented SEL's motion, was timely and even valuable. At the same time, I believe it is right and proper to acknowledge that seeds of truth were present in all the motions that are now being brought to our attention. It is certainly a good thing that, with an effort that has characterized all the extensors, we have come to the proposal for a unitary motion. In many ways, it was a compromise, that is, a shared commitment, and, for others, politically, the achievement of a balance that seems to us to be largely acceptable. What, in our view, is this balance? In the fact that a reflection has been developed (which will be the origin of a political initiative of government) that strikes a balance between the more general theme of the Kurdish question and, within it, the recognition of the specificity of the problem constituted by the PKK, the Kurdish workers' party. We believe that having succeeded in finding a synthesis between these two problems is certainly a positive point of approach, as is shown by the fact that this Parliamentary Assembly today is united in its commitment to the adoption of a joint motion. Now, there is no doubt that the Kurds defend their own survival, but also that, by fighting against the forces of Islamic State, according to their commitment, they are leading a battle in defence of democracy against a terrorism that has become a state and has institutionalized and against a Caliphate that is the expression of an imperialist and aggressive theocracy against the West and the values of democracy. It is a theocracy that is making earth burned also of that Islamic tradition which constitutes a great resource of culture and civilization. Fearing the Kurdish question means first of all promoting a commitment that supports the cause of the political autonomy of the Kurds, because it is an unpredicted point of approach that this people without State - present in Syria, Turkey, Iraq and Iran, but with communities also in the former Soviet Union and Russia - has found a position that no longer aims at a process of State building, at the construction of a national state and has acquired the full awareness that the most advanced horizon of its battle is the achievement of full political autonomy, which respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the states of which the Kurds are part. If this is the most complex horizon of the Kurdish question, the PKK issue also finds its own place. It seems to me that three subsequent items on the agenda indicate a perspective of political initiative that deserves to be consistently pursued. Point 2 refers to the need to promote a positive development of the ongoing negotiations between the Government of Ankara and the PKK, so that an agreement is reached and conditions are laid down for the removal of the PKK from the EU list of terrorist organisations along a procedural route. Then there are the other two points, 3rd and 4th, on the joint agenda, which I think are absolutely important. First of all, it is a matter of mobilising the resources and energies of European policy, so that Europe does not merely passively assist in the development of the situation, but takes action to enable the Kurdish regional authorities to acquire and guarantee this desired political stability, taking back their history, their autonomy, their tradition and the characteristics that mark their story. Finally, on the vexed question of the armed struggle, it seems to me that even with respect to a tradition of foreign policy that has consolidated in the last fifteen to twenty years, the agenda introduces a positive element of novelty and that is the commitment to favor a process that brings the radical, extreme Kurdish components to the renunciation of the armed struggle, so that a political and peaceful process of internal reconciliation is activated, with a view to the activation of a dialogue and negotiation between the parties and with the various national authorities. These are the reasons that to some extent define the contemperation of different needs, allowing us to anticipate, precisely, the commitment to a positive evolution of the Kurdish question and, within this, that of the PKK. These are the reasons for the members of the Democratic Party Group to vote with full conviction on this shared agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u72	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Tonini, Romani Paolo, Lucidi, De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The approval is unanimous, on the contrary, no, since there is a vote against, which I do not know if it has been deliberately expressed or if it is not, rather, a mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u75	PAGE (NCD). Madam President, I would just like to say that I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u76	I invite the Offices to register Senator Pagano's vote in favour. At this point we can say that the agenda was adopted unanimously. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00328 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other Senators, 1-00344, tabled by Senator Stefani and other Senators, 1-00349, presented by Senator Catalfo and other Senators, 1-00351, presented by Senator Petraglia and other Senators, and 1-00355, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, on policies for childhood and adolescence. [[Brusio]] I would be praying to the senators that they might not be interested in the matter of moving silently out of the Chamber, because this issue is very important and deserves the necessary attention. I note that motion 328 (text 2) has been reworded in a text 3. I call Senator Mattesini to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u78	Madam President, let me start with one sentence, a very common saying, which shows how inadequate cultural and political approaches are and how little attention and commitment to children are. The phrase is: "Children and young people are our future." I say no, because children and teenagers live now, and it is time, and not tomorrow, for us to give them answers. And it will be the quality of today's answers that will determine their future, but also that of our country. In Italy, today, that of minors is a real emergency for several reasons. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u79	Excuse me, Senator Mattesini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u80	Colleagues, I would ask you to speak with a low volume, because it really is not possible to do the surgery. Anyone who is not interested, since there are several speeches before the vote, may possibly leave the Chamber. Please, Senator Mattesini. MATTESINI (PD). I said that today in Italy that of minors is a real emergency for several reasons: both because of the dizzying increase in poverty (because it is the children who pay the highest price for the effects of the crisis), and because of the unevenness and fragmentation of interventions, but also and above all because of the lack of integrated programming between the national institutions and between them and the local ones, as well as for the delays that are there. I am thinking of the National Plan for Childhood and Adolescence, which should be biennial but which has been renewed for three years. Meanwhile, Italy has one of the worst data among European countries, with six points more than the European average itself, with 1.4 million children in absolute poverty and 2.4 million children in relative poverty. [[Brusio.]] You see, colleagues, the lives of our children and our children deserve the dignity they have, so more attention on our part, because if there is no such attention, if there are no answers, it is because we are inattentive! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Serra]] Perhaps if we were talking about something else there would be more attention on the part of colleagues; but so much so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u81	I really pray that everyone will be aware of the importance of this debate. Yeah, with a single, commendable exception, the speeches are just women senators on this subject, and I think that's very negative.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u82	[[Applause from the PD Group]] MATTESINI (PD). Among other things, poverty affecting children has a long-term effect and poses a greater risk of poverty and social exclusion for tomorrow's adults, i.e. today's children, because today's disadvantages result, in short, in real inequalities tomorrow. Just think of a great, dramatic poverty, the educational one, to realize that, if we do not intervene today, the future of this country will be black, also in terms of competitiveness, since we have the interest to think about the future and the competitiveness of this country. The European Commission, in the context of Recommendation No 112 of 2013 in point 5, considers that addressing social hardship from early childhood is an important tool for intensifying the fight against poverty and social exclusion in general. It also adds that prevention and the promotion of well-being are effectively achieved when it is implemented through integrated strategies that combine financial support, on the one hand, and access to essential services such as preschool and school education and health care and the right to housing. I would like to point out that the Zancan Foundation presented a study a few weeks ago which highlights how child poverty, where there is a strong network of services, has been reduced by 70%. In this sense, I would also like to stress, with regard to the decommitment of recent years, the change of pace, important choices that this Government has made, also through the law of stability that we will deal with in the coming weeks: I am referring to the important commitment on school, to the 100 million foreseen in the law of stability for kindergartens, which are an extremely important element. We are told all the research that the possibility of accessing early childhood services makes a difference in that educational poverty over which they can be an advantage, and we are a country in which the coverage of early childhood services is barely 13%. So, these 100 million are an important signal - certainly not enough - of a change of pace. Alongside this, I like to remember the bonus baby, which alone did not convince me but, in addition to supporting the network of services, it is important because it means economic support for three years to families where a child arrives, based on ISEE income, which provides, for incomes up to 25,000 euros, 80 euros per month, which are not little, which will become 160 for incomes up to 7,000 euros. You see, however, these important and significant choices, which will have to see others, need a different framework and a different political and institutional will. A different framework because we need a multidimensional cultural and political approach, that is, capable of acting simultaneously on all aspects of the life of a child; a multidimensional approach that must, however, also include an interinstitutional programmatic integration and, consequently, an integrated ability to verify the choices made and the effectiveness of the choices made, because, if we certainly need more resources, I believe that today we have the moral and ethical duty to know how much resources we invest and how efficient those resources are. How much do you spend, for example, every Ministry? What is the amount that health, rather than justice, is allocated to child policies? With what efficiency? What is there to correct? The seriousness lies in this: before asking for new resources it is necessary to understand and analyze well how they are spent. But the multidimensional approach, in order to be there, requires what is not there today; that is, a coherent and organic framework of laws, procedures, shared responsibilities, shared checks, certain resources assigned, knowledge of what exists both at national level (Ministeries and bodies), and at territorial level (regional and municipal); there is no knowledge of the services that exist, it is not known which communities, whether they are day centres, permanent residences or otherwise. The culture and practice of projects and parceling must also be overcome. We've been experimenting with projects for years, decades. We do not need projects, but permanent policies because change and well-being are produced by permanent policies. It is necessary to overcome the fragmentation in order to define policies and services based on integration, continuity and contemporaneity. At international level, the idea and practice that overcoming inequalities and promoting well-being and healthy growth depends on overcoming sectoral logics, logics that, by their nature, prevent the promotion of integrated strategies capable of putting roots in the various contexts of life of children and adolescents: in the home, in school, in the socio-relational, affective and so on. I don't want to make a list of problems, dramas involving minors and teenagers. There is an infinity: think about the issues of abandonment, paedophilia, educational and material poverty. Our motion was not written to list the problems, but to say that we need an approach, a new method for them to be tackled in their entirety. In short, we must face the challenge of putting child and adolescence policies into a system, adopting a structural and organic approach that is functional to the development, strengthening and effectiveness of policies for children. All this has to do with institutional architecture, on the one hand (with Title V of the Constitution important competences have been attributed to the Regions of which, however, there is no knowledge and on which the Regions activate different resources and modalities, generating deep inequalities between children and adolescents), but also with the need for further coordination between the Ministries. Let me give you an example. We have passed important laws (this speech concerns more adolescents than children), such as the execution of the sentence outside the prison that involves many children related to the consumption of drugs and crimes related to these: but if in the territories there are no adequate communities to welcome these minors, if - in the meantime - the territorial services are not strengthened, if the choice of one piece of politics does not become a consequence for the other (even in terms of the transfer of resources), we risk being the first, lacking a dialogue, not making effective the important choices we make. In short, what is needed today is coordination, an interinstitutional logic, because the fragmentation of interventions does not produce a system of policies and services known, monitored, validated and evaluated. This element is essential because if there is no system, evaluation and integration capacity there is a risk that resources will not be used in the best way. This applies both at national and territorial level. Today, in fact, there are no integrated and coherent policies for childhood and adolescence, but only independent "filiere" that act according to distinct and separate logics, which give rise to this or that series of interventions without a shared programming. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It should conclude, Senator Mattesini MATTESINI (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. To date there is no institutional monitoring of the resources and activities dedicated to children, whereas it would be necessary, as I said before, for each Ministry to assess how much of its resources and activities falls on the lives of children. There is no precise survey of all interventions, services and types of services existing in the territories. The request that we make to the Government is a commitment that includes the production of a White Paper on childhood and adolescence, which provides a comprehensive picture of the situation of children, existing services and the resources allocated; but it must be an instrument not only cognitive, but an important cognitive tool with the aim of putting into place policies for childhood and adolescence, with a view to integrated and multidimensional programming, functional to the development and strengthening of policies and the network of childcare and adolescence services. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u83	Senator Stefani has the floor to explain motion 344.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u84	Madam President, we, as a Group of the North League, have tabled a motion on this problem, which is really very sensitive, considering that in 2014 we can talk about poverty and difficulties in the management of child poverty even in Italy (of course, we are not talking about Third World countries). What is worrying is that this phenomenon is not only characterizing certain areas of Italy where, unfortunately, there have been problems for years; the problem is that these phenomena are being highlighted also in industrialized areas. One can also think, in some ways (if I am allowed this consideration), that the very perception of poverty in an environment that is already suffering in itself, is less than in a context where, in some ways, there is, or has been, a situation of well-being. More than 20 years have passed since the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence, ratified by 190 countries around the world, but unfortunately, despite all these years, it has not been possible to eliminate the possibility that children still suffer violence, exploitation and abuse. As they say, it is worrying that these phenomena will also involve countries that have reached high levels of industrialization and well-being. But the difficulty that is created today throughout the world of childhood comes also from a society that has become very complex and that has highlighted over the years also forms of dehumanization. There is a problem with the ability of parents to invest in the future of their children. It is a problem that can depend on many factors: employment status, health, the level of education achieved and also the support that the community can offer to parents themselves. The problem is that in Italy there are extremely worrying data and averages of areas at risk of very high poverty even compared to European ones. This is indeed an issue on which we must not only reflect, as we do today, in the debate and vote on these motions: it is a question which should go beyond the mere proclamation of principle, objectives or intentions, but it should actually come to actual measures. Today these situations can lead to difficulties even in the same birth, because it is obvious that, if the situation of a parent who raises a child becomes so problematic, the possibility of having children and feeding our fabric with new sap and with new individuals is also discouraged and to build our future. All these situations are also a sign of conflict, because our society is a difficult one. We are facing a period of economic crisis, and the economic crisis is not just a problem related to money. The economic crisis often affects the serenity of families. It does not mean that if there is no money you are not happy. The problem is that, when there is no money and there is no work, there are sometimes even internal conflicts, and we know very well that, in the end, those who will suffer from such situations will unfortunately be the children. We must also think that in support of parenthood there is a real structural deficit, especially for early childhood services, but the right to childhood and adolescence is truly a right that cannot be denied. Unfortunately, today we are aware, and it is not by chance that we are discussing these motions, that Italy is far from being able to say that it has undertaken real policies for children. Beyond the policies, ideologies and petitions of principle, but from the point of view of technical problems, our tax system, for example, insists on operating as if the redditional capacity of families was not influenced by the fact of having children, or even by the possibility for parents to be able to take care of their children, because working eight hours a day and going back and forth with transport, it ends up being able to dedicate to their children, not a few hours a day, but a few half hours. It is for this reason that we too wanted to make this motion to ask the Government to start serious policies on children. I repeat, and we will not stop saying this, that it is regrettable that we should do this by means of a motion, because we know very well what content and effectiveness these can have. What is needed in Italy are not statements such as those that we can make here today, when we are all going to vote unanimously, we are going to applaud and so on, because in the end, when we come home, we find families with their problems in the management of children, who will do little of our proclamations here in this House. With our motion, we want to ask the government to adopt a policy in support of families and also to promote initiatives - this is our matrix as a Group of the North League - aimed at combating the phenomenon of illegal immigration, which can lead to increasing the ranks of children in a state of abandonment and extreme poverty. There is a need for useful initiatives to support schools of every order and grade, policies to discourage early school leaving (another problem that seems no longer to be discussed in 2014). It is essential that all our children, children and children have the opportunity to educate themselves and to create a baggage of education that is an inner value for them. We also need to conduct these cognitive investigations, about which Senator Mattesini spoke, aimed at quantifying the actual demand for kindergartens and all structures aimed at combating poverty. The reason why we have tabled a motion of our own, thus not adhering to the one presented by Senator Mattesini and other senators, is that we do not think that we should spend money to create fanciful projects that can be announced with great proclamations but then not be effective. We investigate, we also get the data, but then from these, even before we know exactly the figure on children in poverty (1.4 million, 1.45 million, 1.2 million), we have to think about making sure that the government takes real action to create an appropriate situation. It is urgent to do so, because there is a moment of economic crisis that, as we have said, becomes a moment of social crisis and therefore we must think about strengthening the cores of our society and the first core of our society are the family and our children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-Pdl XVII, NCD and GAL Groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u85	I now give the floor to Senator Serra to explain motion No 349.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u86	Madam President, today we are expressing a strong concern about the data emerging from a survey on child poverty in Italy. The high degree of industrialization in our country and the good standard of living that a large part of Italians lead us to think that poverty cannot affect Italy too closely, yet the phenomenon exists and is alarming. It is difficult to imagine, for example, how many children can be today who live in poverty in our country. According to data reported by the agency Dire, the phenomenon is estimated to be dizzying figure of 1,876,000 children. The situation is extremely worrying in the South of Italy, where the economic difficulties of many families do not allow many children and adolescents to attend the school continuously and expose them, consequently, to the risk of social marginality. The huge gap between the North and the South is easily reflected in educational data: in some regions, such as Campania and Calabria, the school drop-out rate reaches 30%; the full-time classes in the North-West have reached 42%, while in the Southern regions they are at 8.6% and fall to 7.1 percent in the islands; already in nursery schools the frequency is 4 times lower than in the South. The figures on early school leaving are, unfortunately, directly proportional to the rates of child crime. Often in these parliamentary classrooms there is talk of a proactive and functional commitment to access to quality education for all, as an absolute priority, an objective that every civil country must pursue at any cost; but then we are reading that this year the expenditure on education in Italy was 3.8 percent of GDP, against an average of 6.1 percent of OECD countries. We have thus placed ourselves in the 29th place in the ranking that measures investments in education in 34 countries. At such a complex historical social moment, when our security is called into question by a strong economic and social crisis of which Europe is its epicenter, the most effective investment on the future that we all have to support is certainly the school, the fundamental right of all children and discriminating between a future of discomfort and a future that sees them as protagonists of the social development of Italy. Last year, the European Commission proposed a recommendation to interrupt the disadvantage cycle, addressing Member States to review their policies and exchange of experience to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of policies in innovative ways, and encouraging the use of the Structural Funds, to promote social inclusion and combat poverty, in particular through multi-dimensional strategies. Investment in early childhood facilities and services, which are essential for the development of children, especially if they come from difficult backgrounds, reducing school dispersal, supporting and raising awareness of families, are actions that we, as an institution, have a duty to strengthen in order to reduce the educational gap. We call on this motion to ensure that these signs of strong social alarm do not fall into a lukewarm approach of a hypothetical attempt to find solutions, but that they are really a finding and implementing, by means suitable to give rise to system policies. We call for effective monitoring and surveillance mechanisms on communities and the family itself, but above all for a real commitment to be made to the introduction of citizenship income as a general means of combating poverty, also in order to avoid the expulsion of children from the family for economic reasons. All too often we read - I have witnessed it myself - of the removal of minors by the competent authorities, because parents lacked the economic capacity to support their families. These are dramas and wounds that are created in a society with an increasingly friable foundation. We call for concrete efforts to implement social and employment policies for those at risk and below the poverty line. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u87	I call Senator Petraglia to explain motion 351.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u88	Madam President, the previous speeches have already pointed out that in recent years in Italy the poor have increased and, above all, the number of children and adolescents living in poverty. In recent years the income of poor families and teenagers has fallen by 31 percent. On the other hand, the continuing economic crisis has highlighted the imbalance in social spending and the fragility of welfare services, aggravated by policies of strong reduction and fragmentation of resources aimed at social interventions. The failure of the policies adopted so far has increased the risk of poverty and social exclusion for children and adolescents living in families with three or more minors: 70% in the Mezzogiorno before an average of 46.5 at national level. The worst conditions of deprivation fall on the children of immigrants, working families or young or single-parent families, often the mother, who, due to the employment rate of women much lower than the European average, is unable to maintain and take care of their children. 11 percent of our young people, between the ages of fifteen and nineteen, are not enrolled in school, do not work and do not attend training courses; recent data tell us that it is for economic reasons and this would open the big chapter of the lack of the right to study in Italy. UNICEF reports show that the majority of governments, including Italy, have abandoned an economic policy of stimulating growth in favour of austerity policies and this has, of course, produced a serious impact on families and children. The National Social Policy Fund has been constantly definanced in recent years. The National Fund for Childhood and Adolescence itself, financed annually by the Stability Act, has been reduced in recent years; if the Stability Act for 2012 allocated EUR 40 million, the Stability Act currently under discussion in Parliament provides for an appropriation of EUR 28.7 million, without in fact any increase in resources compared to 2014. This has resulted in a reduction, in three years, of 28% of the resources allocated to the National Fund for Children and Adolescence: a clear political choice. According to the report of Save the Children, the Italian policy towards children appears to be characterized by obvious amputations and prostheses: the absence of an organic plan to combat child poverty and support for families; the absence of active organic policies or support for women's work; the impalpability of the system of early childhood services in many regions of the Mezzogiorno; the delay in some areas of the Centre and the North; the fragility of the system of vocational guidance and training, especially in the Mezzogiorno, despite the significant reforms of the last ten years; the absence of an urgent investment programme for the recovery and restructuring of school buildings; the lack of legislative reform to guarantee citizenship to children of foreign origin born in Italy. A real plan to combat child poverty, an investment plan for public education and a new plan for the use of European funds are therefore urgently needed. So far, our country has not set itself precise targets for reducing child poverty. It is not only the income of the family that determines the poverty of a child, but it is also essential to be able to rely on a network of opportunities and services, such as the kindergartens - here widely mentioned - or the schools of childhood, as well as adequate spaces for play and movement. We say that because poverty is above all inequality. The heavy cuts to local authorities, which have been implemented in recent years, have only made the situation worse from the point of view of quality of service and costs. Citizenship has indicated that the municipal structures, on which they can count the families, little exceed the 3,600 kindergartens and are able to satisfy approximately 147,000 applications for registration. The parents of one in four children remain on the waiting list and are forced to turn elsewhere (about 24 percent). It is also no surprise that many young women are being pushed to give up or postpone a desired maternity, as the same data ISTAT tell us. Insufficient provision of social and educational services for children has a negative impact and discourages women's participation in the labour market, making many women give up. Let us remember that this is one of the greatest obstacles that a woman still encounters in the world of work, so much so that the rate of female unemployment places Italy at the last place in the European ranking of the level of activity. It is urgent, therefore, to identify effective active labour policies, in order to promote good and stable female employment in our country, exactly the opposite of what is foreseen in the jobs act. Among children's policies, of course, the problem of unaccompanied minors cannot be ignored. The latest report from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy gives us concern. During the last parliamentary term, the bicameral Parliamentary Committee on Children and Adolescence conducted a survey on the condition of unaccompanied foreign minors, in order to deepen the situation and fate of immigrant minors, especially for the risks to which they are exposed once they have abandoned the centres of first reception, one among all the risk of exploitation by crime, as well as the risks to their own safety. Unfortunately, the continuous cuts to local authorities create a number of difficulties, because the municipalities have serious problems to cope with the burdens arising from the presence of unaccompanied foreign minors. The 2014 Stability Act provides for an appropriation of EUR 20 million for the years 2015 and 2016. They are indispensable resources, but insufficient to ensure an effective coverage of the expenses incurred by the municipalities for the reception of all minors present, without any distinction of origin, age or place of entry into the territory. When we talk about policies for the integration and protection of minors, I hope that sooner or later in Parliament we will address the issue of citizenship to the children of immigrants born in Italy, of which no one speaks anymore. These are children born in Italy as a foreign parent, who live in our country, attend our school, acquire local culture and habits; in short, they are children to all intents and purposes Italian, but that our legal system does not recognize as citizens. There is also the issue of violence against children: yesterday we talked about violence against women, but unfortunately the violence involving children is a widespread phenomenon, not only for abuses within the family environment, but also for abuses taking place outside. Let's think about the cases of sexual abuse and pedophilia, which unfortunately, especially in the adolescent age, have greatly increased. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy closely monitors children's functions on the basis of experimental projects funded by Law No 285 of 1997 for the promotion of rights and opportunities for children and adolescents, and prepares the annual report to Parliament. It is clear that all the issues we have been talking about call for effective coordination of tasks and functions, sharing in children's policies, unification and the reduction of skills in childhood and adolescence, in order to avoid unnecessary and counterproductive overlaps between different subjects and instances. Banally, the myriad of subjects involved in childhood and adolescence should be brought together, also in order to optimize the constantly decreasing resources. With our motion we therefore ask the Government: to support active and effective policies to support the reconciliation of working times and family care, in order to promote the participation of women in the labour market, especially for those with low and discontinuous incomes; to promote social policies to support motherhood and paternity, through the allocation of financial resources for the security and increase of socio-educational structures and services for children and in particular for the newborn and preschool age, ensuring their implementation and uniformity of benefits throughout the national territory; to take initiatives to increase resources for social policies, and for childhood and adolescence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Petraglia. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing, Madam President. We also call on the Government to promote, in the context of the European Semester now in conclusion, a European Plan to combat child poverty, in particular through policies aimed at countering the recession, and redistributive policies, so that children's welfare is at the centre of the future; to agree with the EU bodies on the renegotiation of the so-called golden rule for all investments by local authorities in the protection and promotion of children and adolescents; to take initiatives to provide for interventions, including fiscal measures to support families in extreme poverty; to find - of course - resources to be allocated to the full implementation of children's rights; to promote the social inclusion of foreign children; to find the financial resources to be allocated to regions and local authorities, which are the main actors involved in the reception projects, especially in favour of unaccompanied foreign children, and to strengthen the area of child justice. In short, the government is asked to take initiatives aimed at truly supporting childhood and adolescence. In order to prevent debates such as yesterday's and today's from always being our theoretical exercise, we would have expected to find concrete indications within the law of stability, which we will examine in a few days' time. However, since we are calling for a very important debate in Parliament, we hope that the debate we have had in this House today will obviously turn into a vote in favour of the amendments that will be proposed to call for the financing of actions in favour of adolescence and childhood that we have discussed today. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u89	I call Senator Longo, to explain motion 355.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in motion 355, at the first signing of the leader of Forza Italia Paolo Romani, we want to highlight the condition of the weakest people in our society: children. Poverty in which a child lives, not by choice, carries a very high risk of social exclusion and condemns a large part of the population to a destiny of marginality. This determines for society a load of deviance, which can undermine at the base any possibility of economic and social development of the entire country. The investment on human capital is fundamental for the future of the country and it must be implemented with concrete long-term and wide-ranging interventions, in place of sporadic and rainy financing. Clear, organic and evaluable programmes are needed so that they can also be economically productive. The 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child sets out in a comprehensive manner the fundamental rights which must be recognised and guaranteed to all children. The Convention is based in particular on four priority principles: non-discrimination, providing that the rights enshrined in the Convention must be guaranteed to all minors without distinction; the interest of the child or teenager must be given priority in any public or private initiative; the right to life, to survival and to the development of the child; the right of children to be heard in all decision-making processes affecting them. A number of instruments for the protection and control of children's rights have been put in place in recent years. A Parliamentary Committee on Children has been set up by several legislatures, with the task of monitoring, among others, the compliance of national legislation with EU legislation and the principles laid down in the 1989 Convention. The Guarantee Authority for Children and Adolescence has even been established in order to ensure full implementation and protection of the rights and interests of persons of younger age. Recently the House, inserting special rules in the law of stability, has refinanced its deserving activities. With the ratification of the Lanzarote Convention, Parliament has tightened the penalties for the exploitation and induction of child prostitution, including through the introduction of two new crimes: the incitement to paedophilia and child pornography and the solicitation of minors. However, limits remain to equal educational and growth opportunities, also conditioned by excessive fragmentation of skills in relation to family issues, also due to a number of wrong fiscal choices, which have not paid due attention to the respect of rights and the condition of the lives of children. The essential levels of performance must be defined, without unequal access, in order to address the North-South gap. We need to invest in supporting the study and remove the causes of school dispersal. ISTAT tells us that they live in situations of relative poverty of 1,822,000 minors, equal to 17.6 percent of all children and adolescents. Seven percent of minors, equal to 723,000 people, live in absolute poverty. This situation is very different depending on the place of birth: it is 10.9% in the Mezzogiorno, compared with 4.7% in the Centre and in the North of the country. According to the latest data, there are 758,000 young people between the ages of 18 and 24 who have left school prematurely or any other form of training. The phenomenon of early school leaving unfortunately continues to affect the Mezzogiorno to a greater extent. According to surveys by the organization Save the Children, we are faced with a real childhood emergency, for which almost 32 percent of children under the age of six live at the limits of poverty and 23.7% live in a state of material deprivation. In contrast to this, the data of the Ministry of Health show how the phenomenon of obesity begins especially at an early age, between six and ten years, demonstrating that more than one in six suffers from the pathology. Of course, the family has a fundamental and irreplaceable educational role. Parents who spend most of their free time dedicating themselves to their children impose sound rules and sound principles on them; at the same time, they keep them away from the tempting dangers of the network, that is, those websites considered uncomfortable. However, in general, protecting children from poverty is an ethical and moral duty that should be a priority for every government, since today's children and adolescents will be the citizens of tomorrow and compromising their future means undermining the foundations and the very future of society. A society that respects itself must also be able to activate so-called social lifts and enhance meritocracy by facilitating access to the study, without cost, for the most deserving and consequent access to public and private careers. The same Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which is now an integral part of the Treaty of Lisbon, states that the right of the child to the protection and treatment necessary for his or her well-being is paramount. The even more dramatic figure of poverty in all its forms is manifested by the removal of minors from the family because of the poverty of the family itself. It is a shocking effect, which should be enough alone to shake consciences and activate interventions as soon as possible, in order to guarantee the child to grow up in his family, as provided for in article 315-bis of the Civil Code, appropriately introduced by law n. 219 of 2012, laying down provisions on the recognition of natural children. In this regard, the Senate Justice Commission, after a long debate started in March 2014, has dismissed bill No 1209, amending Law No 184 of 4 May 1983 on the adoption of minors by foster families, which will shortly be before the Assembly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should finish quickly. Longo Eva (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore call for a serious commitment from the Government with our motion on these points: to take initiatives to ensure greater integration of the different competences; to take initiatives to support projects for the promotion of study; to adopt, as a matter of urgency, appropriate growth policies, including through a greater allocation of economic and instrumental resources; to develop a strategic plan for combating child and youth poverty, against school dispersal and for the integration of young people into the labour market; to take initiatives to develop supplementary services aimed at closing the gap between the demand and supply of services of the individual regions; to enhance in every way the relationship with voluntary associations rooted in the territory; to promote policies in support of the family, especially of fiscal type; to provide incentives for sports activities; to encourage an awareness campaign against the sedentary lifestyle; to promote the adoption of national laws aimed at stimulating ad hoc regulatory instruments, in order to obscure suspicious websites. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u91	Senator Di Biagio has the floor to explain the agenda G1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u92	Madam President, I shall try to be brief. I outline the agenda G1, which wants to further direct the Government's commitment to childhood and adolescence on those weak among the weak who are unaccompanied minors. We are all faced with estimates of abandoned immigrant minors: a tragedy in the tragedy, which concerns children deprived of the most elementary rights, forced to flee, from violence and poverty, abandoned in a solitude that is dramatic and chilling to imagine already for an adult, and that I do not want to define for a child. We know how this loneliness can sometimes turn into a nightmare, coming out of the contours of traceability. Data released by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as at 30 November 2013 reported a total of 8,655 unaccompanied minors reported by the competent authorities, of which 10 percent were under 14 years of age. To these little ones our society must be able to offer a safe embrace, articulating in a serious and responsible way the maximum reception and protection. For this reason, the agenda under consideration wants to further engage the Government, among other things, to activate urgently those necessary interventions to ensure that unaccompanied foreign minors and the parent-minor families, who arrive on our coasts through illegal landings, are immediately welcomed into families available for temporary reception, where possible, by activating specific agreements to this effect with the possible relatives of family associations and national organisations of proven experience; to allow, moreover, the placement of the child in the family is arranged by the public security authorities with priority over the placement in community and other structures, in respect of the greater interest of the children, also taking into account the fact that the placement in foster families also has a far lower cost than the other solutions. We also commit the Government to prevent foreign minors, whether accompanied or not, from being arbitrarily detained in reception centres beyond the 72 hours required by law. Translating the principle of child protection through strong initiatives certainly implies synergy between the different levels of our social, political and institutional work. But this can only be achieved where there is a determined will. I am sure that this House today will want to give a strong signal of this will by voting in favour of this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u93	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u94	Madam President, Italy is a country that seems to have forgotten children and we are at the top of the European ranking on the risk of child poverty, while we are at the last places in Europe for funding for families, children and motherhood, with 1.3% of GDP, compared with 2.2% of the European average. Italy has never been a country particularly attentive to minors, but if we observe the development of social policies for childhood and adolescence in recent years we see that they have suffered a serious setback, not only from the point of view of resources, but also of the capacity of the State to bring to system the whole of these policies. The National Fund for Childhood and Adolescence (FNI), established by Law No 285 of 1997, provided for in the First National Children's Plan (NIP), which transposed the 1995 recommendations by the UN Committee on Childhood and Adolescence in Italy, now has increasingly limited resources. The same Plan has become only a guidance document, following the decentralisation of social skills to the Regions. We can say, unfortunately, that the current framework is that of the almost non-existence of child policies, in a context of vertical fall of the welfare system that has made social policies fragmentary on the territorial level and, in particular, those for children and adolescents. The institutional architecture on which the welfare that Italy had built in the post-war period was founded is in fact largely skipped, due to both the drastic reduction of resources and the fragmentation of that institutional design and the choice to place welfare policies within a Ministry of Labour that in fact deals more with work than social policies. Decentralisation of functions has been reduced to break-up and measures for people of underage age have not been coordinated. The financial crisis of the State has had deleterious effects on services, resources, rules and laws for minors and their families, causing the vertical fall of welfare policies in general and, even more so, policies of support for children and adolescents, already very lacking in departure, in a country where it is difficult to spend resources on families and where children have never been the first of the thoughts on the public level. With the current law of stability, as Senator Mattesini also recalled, there is a reversal of trend, and I think of the 100 million euros planned for the nests and the help to families with the baby bonus. In addition to this, however, there are not yet integrated and coherent policies for childhood and adolescence, but only local initiatives and supply chain activities, sometimes also advanced, but independent, which act according to distinct logics, which at best meet casually, more for the will of individual operators, than for legal obligations or planning by the State. There is no real programming or control and verification of results except in very small local areas. This situation needs to change: we need to reflect on the need for planning in this field to move from pure and simple decentralisation to federal policies and to essential levels of performance that affect the civil and social rights of children. For this reason, an in-depth study is needed of the impact of national and regional legislation on household spending, quality of services and the rights of minors. Precisely because there is a crisis, it is essential to immediately activate a National Plan to combat child poverty, starting quickly with the preparation of a White Paper on Childhood and Adolescence. Children and adolescents represent the present and future of the country and are the main resource on which Italy must aim to get back on its feet. Childhood and adolescence policies must therefore be conceived as a social investment. Because of the limited timing, Madam President, I ask for permission to deliver the full text of my speech. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u95	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u96	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u97	Madam President, I would first of all like to say that I will be brief in my turn, because the speeches that have been made before me and which have explained the content of the motions have already analysed the issues relating to this subject in depth. I would therefore like to take advantage of these few minutes to draw the House's attention to another aspect, namely that the commitment required of this Parliament to deal with, propose and pursue policies on the issues of childhood and adolescence is a responsibility which calls for our own Constitutional Charter. I would like to recall the second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution, which reads as follows: It is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. I believe that this paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution contains the two data that I believe should be taken into account as a right of the issue, namely welfare, well-being, and the role of the school. I would like to say a few words about the school, since I sit in the competent committee on the subject and the school issues are dear to me. In particular, I would like to make two points. First of all, I would like to point out that, in addition to all the documents and reports mentioned in the various motions that have been presented, there is also a document produced by the European Commission in 2014 on monitoring the education and training system in Italy, in which - paragraph two - while recognising that in recent years Italy has made some progress in improving its education system, there are still considerable delays in investment in education, in school. I would also like to remind you once again and reiterate, because we are in a period of stability law, that the government's investment in school is still low compared to the European average, which is at least one percentage point lower: we are, if I am not mistaken, 4.2 percent of GDP. I am therefore referring to the appeal made by Senator Petraglia, and I would ask this House, when the law of stability comes to our attention, to translate into concrete action the commitments contained in the motions we are debating today, so that the usual fine words may not always remain in freedom, which no one can harness and structure within measures. We have a great opportunity to move from words to deeds. My appeal to this House is therefore to remind us all of the debate that has taken place today and to try everyone, with great intellectual honesty, to translate these commitments into amendments during the examination of the law of stability. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u98	Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief because time is running out, but also because the speeches that have been made have all been said a number of things and I can only agree with them: I am referring, above all, to what Senators Mattesini and Granaiola have said, with which I also shared the structure of the motion tabled. I want to emphasise something that perhaps needs to be further examined: we need to think of welfare as a system that can give a guarantee network to people without voice and fragile, in this case especially to children and young people. We know that having a functioning welfare system, which pays particular attention, as I said, to fragile people, gives serenity. We must try to avoid what is happening in other countries, such as Greece, where the extremely thinned dimension of the social health system has caused significant and very heavy situations in terms of new pathologies: after decades, for example, autochthonous malaria has reappeared and extremely important diseases have occurred concerning children and minors. We must therefore be careful about this system. Another aspect that I would like to highlight and resume, since it has already been said, is the importance of actions that are no longer fragmented and fragmented, with divergent objectives, because the resources are contained, although there is a reversal of trend, and must be used in an appropriate, effective and efficient manner, especially with a great deal of attention and systematic structuring of the checks on routes, processes, outcomes and results. From this point of view, I agree and agree on the importance of recovering data so as to verify what are the elements of greatest weakness and fragility of our system aimed at children, the social and parental network and, in any case, the entire community that sees them within it. A careful consideration must be reserved to all the new poverty and to the request for help that comes from situations that see the children in conditions of particular fragility as coming in our country from the places of misery and despair. I agree and therefore agree, as I said, with the importance of collecting data, highlighting the strengths and above all those of weakness; to check how well our services and our professionals are able - because they are specially trained and cultured - to take this situation into account, so to define the cases and the standards that we must most appropriately put in place, act and verify. I therefore strongly support not only concrete policies on the part of this Parliament towards the Government and all of us, but also the development of a White Paper that can review and consider all the elements I was talking about, which can be the basis for important, targeted and synergistic actions in the context of a network of paths aimed at specific objectives. Madam President, I ask you to hand over the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u100	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The debate is closed. I call the State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Biondelli, to whom I would also like to express my opinion on the motions and the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u101	Madam President, first of all I would like to say that there is the political will to carry these motions forward, because in the previous parliamentary term I too was disappointed with so many motions that have remained a dead letter, so the political will is there. The issue raised is important. Of course, the hope is that on these issues there will always be, as today, a point of dialogue and sharing, given the alarming data that have emerged precisely from the motions you have presented. My request is therefore to try to work together on such sensitive matters. Senator Silvestro spoke of an attention to be given to fragile people: here, I have to say that there is a strong attention on the part of the Government, and the Ministry of Labour in particular. As Senator Granaiola called for, there must also be more strength on social policies and welfare: we really want to act to promote the rights and social inclusion of all, and of course especially of children and adolescents. With regard to the individual motions submitted in respect of No 328 (text 3), on the first point of the device, I give a favourable opinion following the following rewording: "to promote a coordinated approach in favour of childhood and adolescence and its rights by assessing the usefulness of drawing up a White Paper on Childhood and Adolescence, including in order to overcome the fragmentation of competences among institutional actors involved in it and to ensure knowledge of data and resources overall expenditure, and to strengthen policies and the network of childcare and adolescence services." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept this request for reformulation, Senator Mattesini? MATTESINI (PD). Yes, ma'am. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. As regards motion 344 on point 1, I am in favour. On point 2, I am in favour, provided that the text is reworded as follows: To promote initiatives aimed at spreading cultural pluralism that also takes into account the traditions and values diffused in Italian society. On point 3) I am in favour of the following rewording: "to promote further initiatives to combat the phenomenon of illegal immigration" - which is an even broader concept than the proposed concept of illegal immigration - "and to combat criminal organisations making profits with trafficking in persons." In point 4, I express a favourable opinion conditional on the following rewording: "to strengthen initiatives against the poverty of children and against their employment for the purposes of begging." The opinion was in favour of points 5, 6 and 7. In point 8, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: I am also in favour of point 9, provided that the following rewording is accepted: It shall promote, in accordance with public finance balances, the increase in the resources of the National Social Policy Fund in order to strengthen policies in favour of children. Finally, on point 10), I am in favour of the following rewording: "to consider the possibility and the opportunity, also in relation to the resulting financial implications, to put in place initiatives, including of a regulatory nature aimed at establishing the family court, in order to adapt the system of juvenile justice to the guidelines for the child trial in Europe, approved by the Council of Europe on 17 November 2010, in order to protect, in particular, the right of the child to "listen" and to maintain a stable relationship with both parents, even if separated and divorced". With regard to the establishment of the family court, I would like to point out that the draft delegation approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2014 nevertheless envisages the establishment at all the courts of specialised sections for the family and the person. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani, do you intend to accept the reformulation proposals made by the government representative? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask Secretary Biondelli to express his views on motion 349. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. With regard to the operative part, as regards point 1, I am in favour of the following rewording: "to promote a coordinated approach in favour of children, adolescents and their rights, considering the usefulness of drawing up a White Paper on Children and Adolescence" also in order to overcome the fragmentation of competences between the institutional actors involved and to ensure knowledge of data and resources overall spent." With reference to point 2, I am in favour of the following rewording: "to assess the possibility, compatible with the framework of the competences assigned to local self-governments, to activate and strengthen mechanisms of control and supervision more effective on the activities carried out by communities or family houses, in order to test the actual necessity, validity and usefulness of the foster projects planned for each child." With reference to points 3) and 4) I give a favourable opinion subject to the following rewording: It promotes and strengthens initiatives to ensure support for the less well-off, considering the possibility, compatible with the financial framework, of extending the new experimental purchase card so-called Active Inclusion Support (IAS) and of introducing, after the use of the ASAP, a performance which may be devoid of figurative coverage limited to workers in involuntary unemployment who have reduced values of the ISEE which also provides for the involvement of the worker in active policy initiatives aimed at reintegration into the labour market, as provided for by the law delegation of labour market reform (so-called jobs act) ).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u102	I ask whether the presenters accept the rewording proposals put forward by the Government. BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, we would like to ask that we have the text of the reformulation so that we can evaluate and communicate the answer, preferably at tomorrow's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, I can inform the senators that, in any case, we are not going to vote on motions this evening, because there are various explanations of vote. Therefore, those who were not interested in following the debate are informed of the progress of the work. I now ask the representative of the Government to give his opinion on motion 351.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u103	With regard to the operative part of point 1, the opinion supports the following rewording: To promote active policies and effective measures to support the reconciliation of working time and family care in order to promote women's participation in the labour market, particularly those with low and discontinuous incomes. Point 2: favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote initiatives to promote social policies to support motherhood and fatherhood, considering the opportunity, compatible with public finance balances, to allocate financial resources for the security and increase of social and educational structures and services for children, in particular in the newborn and pre-school sectors, ensuring their implementation and uniformity of benefits throughout the national territory." Point 3: favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote, in line with public finance balances, the increase in the resources of the National Social Policy Fund in order to strengthen policies in favour of children." Point 4: favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to consider the possibility, within the European Semester, of promoting a European plan to combat child poverty, in particular through policies to offset the recession and redistribution in such a way that children's well-being is the centre of the future in the programme of stability, growth and employment in Europe." Point 5): a favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to consider the desirability of agreeing with the bodies of the European Union to renegotiate the so-called 'golden rule', for all investments by local authorities in the protection and promotion of children and adolescents." Point 6): favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote initiatives to stimulate and strengthen poverty support measures, such as support for active inclusion" Point 7): a favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to assess the possibility of taking initiatives aimed at increasing the resources to be allocated for the full implementation of the rights of children living in Italy." Point 8): favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote the social inclusion of foreign children, considering the opportunity to take initiatives, including regulatory initiatives." Point 9): favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote initiatives, in line with the financial resources available, for the enhancement and improvement of reception projects for unaccompanied foreign minors." Point 10): a favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote initiatives, including legislation, compatible with the financial resources available, in order to intervene in the extremely critical phase of the first integration into civil society of unaccompanied minors, helping them at a stage that inevitably exposes them to serious risks to their safety and exploitation by crime, and to facilitate their integration, facilitating appropriate forms of temporary fostering." Point 11): a favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote initiatives to strengthen the field of juvenile justice, in the context of the implementation of the draft law delegation on justice approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2014 and in order to make concrete the social recovery of young people entering the criminal circuit and in social distress." Point 12): favourable opinion with the following rewording: "to promote a coordinated approach to children and adolescents and their rights in order to overcome the fragmentation of competences between the institutional actors involved and to ensure knowledge of the overall data and resources spent." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u104	Madam President, I also ask that we have the text of the proposed rewordings. In principle, however, with regard to the first point, I did not quite understand the rewording and if we can get the text, then we would also have a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u105	I read you the text of the reformulation. To promote active policies and effective measures to support the reconciliation of working time and family care in order to promote women's participation in the labour market, with particular regard to those with low and discontinuous incomes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u106	The reference to delegation is frankly not in agreement with us. We shall address this point tomorrow when we vote, after evaluating the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u107	Before we proceed to the vote, we will distribute the written text of all the rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u108	I call on the Undersecretary to take a decision on motion 355.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u109	On point 1 of the proposal, I welcome the reworded text: "to promote a coordinated approach to childhood and adolescence and its rights, including in order to overcome the fragmentation of competences between the institutional actors involved and to ensure knowledge of the overall data and resources spent." On point 2, I am in favour of the following rewording: "to assess the possibility, in accordance with the financial framework, of taking initiatives to support projects to encourage the study, in favour of children in family situations of particular uneasiness, or at risk of social exclusion." I also welcome point 3) if reworded as follows: It promotes and strengthens initiatives to ensure support for the less well-off, considering the possibility, compatible with the financial framework, of extending the new experimental purchase card so-called Active Inclusion Support (IAS) and of introducing, after the use of the ASAP, a benefit which may be without figurative coverage limited to workers in involuntary unemployment with reduced values of the ISEE, which also provides for the involvement of the worker in active policy initiatives aimed at reintegration into the labour market, as provided for by the law delegation of labour market reform (so-called jobs act). On point 4, the opinion supports the following rewording: It promotes and strengthens initiatives to ensure support for the less well-off including children and young people, considering the possibility, in accordance with the financial framework, of extending the new experimental purchasing card so-called Support for active inclusion (SIA) and increasing policies against school dispersal also through the strengthening - provided for in the law delegation of labour market reform (so-called jobs act) - of the instruments to promote the alternation between school and work and initiatives aimed at the integration of young people into the labour market. I am in favour of point 5), as reworded: "to assess the possibility, compatible with the financial framework and respecting the competences assigned to local self-government, to take initiatives to develop complementary services aimed at closing the gap between the supply and demand of services of the individual regions." On point 6), I am in favour of the following rewording: "to enhance, within the framework of the competences assigned to the local self-governments, the relationship with voluntary associations rooted in the territory and to make use, where possible, of the good practices proposed by them or already carried out at local level." I am also in favour of point 7. On point 8, too, I would like to express a favourable opinion, subject to the following rewording: "to strengthen and increase, in line with the financial framework, the initiatives to support sporting activities." I am also in favour of point 9) if the following rewording is accepted: "to consider the possibility of adopting an awareness campaign against sedentary lifestyle, highlighting its deleterious aspects as a cause of the main degenerative and cancer cardiovascular diseases in the adult and elderly subjects." With regard to point 10), I welcome the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of taking appropriate measures to protect minors while browsing the Internet". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the presenters accept the proposals for reformulation? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finally, I call on the Secretary-General to give his opinion on the G1 agenda. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. On point 1 of the proposal, I am in favour of the following rewording: It shall promote initiatives to implement any necessary action to ensure that unaccompanied foreign minors are guaranteed a reception system involving public and private institutional actors, including by facilitating the timely identification of families available for temporary reception in accordance with the resources available and taking into account the provisions of the measures before Parliament amending the Single Text on Immigration (Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998). With regard to point 2, I am in favour of the following rewording: To promote initiatives aimed at facilitating the placement of unaccompanied aliens in the family, taking into account the best interests of the child, in the awareness of the need to coordinate, both from the point of view of the interventions and of the financial resources available, the initiatives useful to improve the process of integration of the child, taking into account what is provided for in the measures to be considered by Parliament amending the Single Text on Immigration (Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998). Finally, in point 3) I propose the following rewording: "to promote initiatives aimed at preventing foreign minors, whether accompanied or not, from being held in reception centres beyond the 72 hours laid down by law". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the proposals for reformulation? DI BIAGIO (PI). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u110	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u113	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, with regard to the motion that we have tabled, we ask that all Members, taking into account both the premises and the proposals made, should take a position of acceptance. We shall vote in favour. With regard to the other motions that have been tabled, we have reservations about some of them, and at the appropriate time we will ask for a split vote, because we do not agree with them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u116	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, at this point we prefer to evaluate the rewordings, because according to them we will address our explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u117	In order to allow the proposed senators to study the proposed rewordings, I refer to another session the continuation of the discussion of motions in title, with the carrying out of the further explanations of vote and the vote of the individual motions, which will be a little 'complex given the considerable work of adjustment operated by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u118	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-360.ana.u119	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 27 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.47 p.m.
