ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 18 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I should like to address you as President of this House because the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 17 September has been managed in a very irrational way. At the same time as Wednesday 17 September, in fact, we had the convocation of the Senate and the convocation of Parliament in joint session. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LN-Aut groups.]] Some Members have taken it for granted that the election to the agenda of Parliament in joint sitting should be a significant and important moment and thought that the Senate session would not take place. It seems to me that President Grasso has begun the work...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u5	Senator Divina, do you intend to make proposals regarding the Minutes of the sitting of 18 September? Otherwise, we must first approve that Minutes and then I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u6	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, as far as the Minutes are concerned, it will appear that so many Members were absent in this House, but they were not in fact absent because they were in the House of Members doing their job as voters of the members of the Supreme Courts. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]] Let this remain at least in the minutes and let President Grasso take some subsequent action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u7	Divine Senator, the record that has been read and that we are about to approve is that of the sitting of September 18, while that of the afternoon sitting of September 17 will be evaluated in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. Since there are no comments, the Minutes are therefore deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u8	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u9	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, please have a moment of silence and attention. Yesterday morning, September 22, 2014, a new tragic accident at work occurred. In Adria, in the province of Rovigo, in a factory for the disposal of special waste, due to a toxic cloud of sulphur dioxide, four workers died: Nicolò Bellato, 28 years old, Paolo Valesella of 53, Marco Berti of 47 and Giuseppe Valdan of 47. The first three were factory workers, the fourth was an external transporter. A fifth person, Massimo Grotto, 47 years old, is hospitalized, while a firefighter, who intervened in the rescue, was intoxicated. The umpteenth tragedy at work calls for all to continue their efforts to strengthen the protection of workers and the safety of workplaces. There is no crisis, there is no profit, there is no competition that can make human life, health, the continuous training of workers of every qualification and of every productive sector, systematic control of safety measures, protection of the environment. This commitment can only be achieved through strong and continuous cooperation between the institutions and the economic and social partners, from the preparation of the rules to the daily behaviour of businesses and workers. Only in this way can we say, without rhetoric and without reservation, that the Italian Republic is founded on labour. The Assembly of the Senate, joining with the pain of the families and colleagues of the deceased workers, expresses deep condolences and wishes for a prompt recovery to Massimo Grotto and the intoxicated firefighter. He also thanked the fire department for their immediate rescue. Ladies and gentlemen, in remembrance of the victims, I call on the House to respect one minute's silence and recollection. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u11	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1612: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law no. 132 of 12 September 2014 concerning urgent measures for dejurisdiction and other interventions for the definition of the backwardness in the matter of civil process". At its meeting on 18 September the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Torrisi, if you're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u12	Mr President, I am speaking only to confirm the favourable opinion on the constitutional requirements that I have already formulated in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u13	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u16	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are once again - and I say this with regret, on behalf of my Group, but also with regard to the role that this Parliament must play with regard to the constitutional legitimacy of the decree-laws - to examine a type of measure that is being made by this Government with a singular continuity with respect to the two previous governments, a totally distorted use. Unfortunately, this is a form, not only of content but also of communication, which by now the Government has become accustomed to using with reference to the themes that have been at the base, before the famous program of the hundred days (fisco, public administration, work and now justice), which along the way has been highlighted as more complex and transformed into a program of the thousand days. The format is always that: announcement, usually characterized by chirpings and press conferences; public consultation, realized in ways we are not given to know, with results collected in ways of which we are not given knowledge and elaborated in ways of which, equally, we are not given to know. Then there are guidelines that are curiously and eccentrically attributed to the regulatory values they follow - and here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the point we are interested in - a decree tendingly de minimis, little in content, in the smell of constitutional illegitimacy because it is not characterized by the requirements of necessity, urgency and homogeneity that the Constitution requires, and which it still follows - and it is usually there that the large part, or should be there, of the content because of all this we are talking about, but very little we have seen so far - a law of legislative delegation that, with a perfectly circular path, reports, with oceanic delegations, all the matter to the Government. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an extremely questionable modus operandi, especially if, as in this case, constitutional illegitimacy is involved within it. On behalf of our Group, as Commissioners of the 1st Commission, we have indicated that this is a further embarrassment. These are certainly fundamental issues: the deflation of the cargoes pending in civil justice and the reduction of civil litigation, which involves to our country a damage in every respect, not only for those who do not see satisfied their demands through a late justice that, by its definition, is a justice denied, therefore a non-justice. No one can therefore argue that this swifter civil justice is not fair. The problem is the toolbox, the way this is put in place, the way, always, the wrongest. It is not possible with a decree-law, in 60 days, to solve the age-old problems of civil justice in our country. That's not possible, and no one's ever tried. We too have dealt with this issue, and for our part, with the Berlusconi Government of the previous legislature, we have partially reduced the burden of justice, especially in the civil sector. But it is not through a decree-law, moreover characterized by further margins of constitutional illegitimacy, that the problem resolves. Why do I say "more margins"? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this concerns me in particular, because the need and urgency are confused with haste. Having haste does not mean integrating the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution. There is no general urgency in providing. The Constitutional Court has been telling us this since the '90s. We cannot use decree-laws on the basis of the single, simple and general urgency in providing, intervening in tearing and shaving of leopard on an ordinamental apparatus that would require an organic reform, not intervention in size, not interventions that cannot in themselves solve the problems. To this is added - and here, President and colleagues, the real constitutional illegitimacy within the meaning of Article 77 - a further malpractice that this Government is putting in place with a singular and most alarming recurrence: the fact of including in decree-laws, moreover already badly used from the point of view of necessity and urgency, so-called provisions with deferred effectiveness, i.e. transitional provisions that become valid and effective only at a later date than the entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree itself. This is totally unconstitutional. This is exactly what the constituent legislator did not want and did not think, delegation in an absolutely exceptional way - and I stress exceptional - the legislative competence to the Government. It is a legislative competence which cannot but reside in Parliament; it cannot be snatched and expropriated to Parliament itself when the conditions are not met. This undermines an essential foundation, a bulwark of the rule of law that we are facing in a very nonchalant and sloppy way, as if all this were normal: the fact of making law decrees, which are also signed by the highest Colle, validated by the Presidency of the Chambers and are, though by majority, approved and converted by Parliament, seems to have become normal. It is absolutely insane from the constitutional point of view to allow a decree-law to contain provisions that are not already valid and effective from the time of publication in the Official Journal, but even valid and effective at a given time, 180, 90, 60 or 30 days, after the entry into force of the law of conversion of the same. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This means contradicting what the Constituents have told us in Article 77: if within 60 days the decree-law is not converted in its entirety decays. Instead, we create a new figure of decree-law, we apply it by majority and give it a constitutional lawfulness that it cannot have. That is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen - and that is why I am convinced that my Group is voting against it - on any correctness of content. We too have spoken on several occasions about the ordinary rite, we have tried to simplify it, to make it more agile and we have tried - as happens in the content of this provision - to allow the judge, on the basis of the greater or lesser complexity of the dispute, to move from the ordinary rite to the summary proceedings of cognition. We too, colleagues, have used alternative means of settling disputes (I have to say - and the Government will not - using them a little better, also because the representative of the Government at the time was part of our majority and therefore knows what I am talking about), using the instrument of arbitration and assisted negotiations (or guided that you say you want) in a much more careful and with a much firmer hand than you do now, allowing and moreover establishing margins of improbability and impproposity of the judicial question much more attentive and compatible with the complexity of the order and certainly not foreseeing, through the decree-law, all this, and not establishing effective deferred provisions in a container that these provisions cannot really tolerate: I am talking about the Constitution. Again, with the same scheme of deferred effectiveness, there has been an intervention on the executive process. I apologize, I am talking about merit at a time when we are discussing the constitutional conditions, but it is very difficult to sanction the form without giving substance. The substance may also be generically correct, but if not conveyed through the right form it simply does not work, just as this provision will not work either. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It will still not work because there is no systemic vision: there is no systemic vision of alternative procedures, there is no systemic vision of the ordinary ritual and there is no systemic vision of the executive process. There is so much propaganda, so much government communication 2.0, but very little content can be immediately effective. So, Mr President, by repeating the vote in favour of the absence of constitutional requirements, Article 77 of the basic text that we have all too often become accustomed to disregarding, I repeat what I said: the government has shot the arrow and I cannot even say that it has missed the target; the arrow is still in the air and unfortunately we do not know where it will fall. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u17	I inform you that on Tuesday 30 September, at 3 p.m., the Minister for Economic Development, Dr. Guidi, will make an information on the economic impact for national companies, in relation to the trade sanctions of the Russian Federation against the European Union. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u20	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Lega Nord and Autonomies Group can only join those who raise a great deal of concern about the constitutional requirements and prerequisites of this decree-law. Unfortunately, we too are obliged to include this as yet another measure issued by the Renzi Government using instruments, in our view, essentially aimed at expelling this Parliament and its capacity for initiative. Precisely because when we talk about the reform of justice we are talking about an extremely important and complex issue, the complexity of our system requires that any reform be analysed with the time, in our opinion logical and reasonable, of the normal parliamentary process of a bill. A decree of urgency requires, instead, not only legal practitioners but all citizens, an immediate subversion considering the immediate applicability of the norm; an immediate applicability that already before the approval of the law of conversion will produce the structure and the application of norms that can also create confusion. We are also wondering what the conditions of necessity and urgency of the measure under consideration may be. Can we say that the reform of justice is urgent because we discovered the necessity of it the day before yesterday? The urgency of the reform of justice has been evident for years and precisely the management that has been made of the justice system has led us to have today implacable delays in the trials, delays and a backsliding to say the least shameful. The urgency should therefore be dealt with by this decree-law, which we are not discussing on the substance of, since there are parts of the measure that we also agree with. However, it is a decree-law that is presented as a reform of justice while, when we go to read it, we are faced with institutions that already exist in our order, such as arbitration, as if it were a sort of panacea of all evils, what it is not. The reform of justice cannot and must not take place through a decree-law; it must take place through a systematic structuring of the whole civil procedure. Indeed, we are faced with the urgency of setting up an apparatus which unfortunately does not conform to what is a civil society, whereas, if we read the measure under consideration, we find that there is talk of arbitration and - something curious - the institution of assisted negotiation which, I remind all colleagues, had already been dealt with by a draft law at the first signature of our group's colleague, Senator Divina, precisely in the field of assisted negotiation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That draft law has not been examined, but the institution of assisted negotiation has been included in this decree-law, which will impose on all categories and operators in the sector a real change of some issues. We still wonder: does the urgency of settling justice and reforming it go through the possibility of concluding a consensual separation between the parties or a joint divorce, possibly even before a civil state officer? That is not the problem of justice. It is not only the question of the hearing and appearance of the spouses in a consensual separation; the problem is not in the time of issuing a judgment in a joint divorce. There is a whole system that concerns the very structure of our process. What we expected, and I hope that in this respect the Government will accept our demands, is that a real reform will also take place through other instruments, affecting the way in which the process is developed. In this measure we talk about the summary procedure, but we remember that this already exists, and the same goes for the conciliation media: I remind all of us that the conciliation media did not become operational without causing some difficulties. The difficulties were there, not at all before it was introduced, then it disappeared, then it was reinserted. Let us remember that our code already provides for attempts at conciliation: the possibility of conciliation exists; the instruments are there and must only be used in a better way. With regard to this measure, we still dispute that these assumptions may exist, for the reasons we have said before. I would like to conclude my brief speech by reminding you that the Government has great power and can definitively overcome the divisions within the majority, but it must never and never exonerate the Parliament of the power it has to legislate and discuss the draft laws in the necessary time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u23	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, there is always one issue in every legislature: the reform of justice. It is an evergreen one now: reform, reform, reform. To hear this term so full and abundant, reform, everyone expects a revolution, yet every time they are only palliative, small dressings to a problem to be solved perhaps at the root. Let's not hide it: maybe you don't want to face it, maybe it suits someone. Today, however, we do not look so much at the merit (although at some point we have to get to it), but at the method. There is no intervention in justice by decree-law, and there is no need to disturb the Constitution in order to understand it. I am referring to the Constitution currently in force, because I remind you that at present, and fortunately, the Constitution that we know is still in force and not the unworthy reform that you want to carry out. I said that there is no need to trouble you because it is enough to read the same decree to realize the abomination created. An intervention on justice issues would create those sixty days of uncertainty in which no one would venture on new rites and new ways of approaching civil justice in the uncertainty that then changes something. In fact, the Government realized this, and when it wrote this decree-law it had to introduce a differentiated entry into force: even ninety days after the conversion into law of the decree. You've never seen a decree that has this kind of characteristics. The decree, by its nature, must intervene on urgent matters. A decree-law is made, for example, to finance the flooded populations of Gargano that are still waiting [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : in that case a decree is needed to be immediately operational and the funds are immediately available, and certainly not for a reform that will enter into force ninety days after the conversion into law. All the urgency you have postponed to ninety days after the conversion into law. What does this decree do? It addresses the issue of justice not with a reform - one expects who knows what revolution - but by introducing a concept: the parties can resort to arbitration, negotiation, as if this were a great novelty, as if alternative instruments were not already provided in our codes; civil mediation was also introduced a few years ago. But do we realize that this is a fake solution? If the two sides have come to a judicial dispute before a judge without finding a compromise, they will hardly get there just because Renzi imposes it. Maybe if they offer ice cream, maybe they can compromise. Moreover, even if someone should try, few will manage to reach a compromise, a negotiation, an arbitration, and in the end we will find ourselves with a boomerang effect, that is all the cases gone to the arbitration panel will return to the judicial offices, maybe after a break of 120 days, and then we will have a revival of civil litigation. Basically, we will have a benefit only for statistics: at the end of the year in the statistics of the last few months we will have a decrease in the civil slope, but it will only be fictitious, a fake thing. Moreover, always talking about the method of approach to the decree-law, it contains rules concerning short divorce, separation and some provisions of this kind. Well, there was already a bill passed in the House and detained in the Senate and the government intervenes with a tight leg with a decree-law. I would like to remind my colleagues, particularly those of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when the draft law on the crime of feminicide was being examined by the Senate, which has been bypassed by the government's tight-legged entry by decree, which has distorted it completely, reducing its scope: we are in the same situation. In addition, references to currently filed draft laws are included within the decree-law in question, but nature is not followed as they are completely distorted. The other question concerns the content of the decree-law: the vacation of the magistrates. This seems to be the battlehorse of all this reform; in the end this is the core of the reform: finally the vacation of the magistrates is reduced, as if the solution of all the problems were the reduction of the vacation of the magistrates. We forget, however, that when the magistrates reduce their holidays, the working period is reduced, and this means that the period of ordinary hearings will increase. Among other things, the measure would come into force from 2015, when the summer is over, so you do not understand what its urgency and indeferability consist. We forget that the staff of the Registry, who must support these magistrates and who is already reduced to bone, must do those holidays and must spread them during the summer period, unless it is decided that these employees also enjoy holidays only during that period, then perhaps we will have to close completely for holidays the courts in those 25-30 days. However, the objective of the decree-law in question, as you can see, is precisely to privatise justice, to make it a prerogative of those who can afford it. The strong will be able to impose a negotiation in his favour of the weak; the weak economically knows that a long cause would bring him to his knees, while those who are strong economically know that they can resist even for a long time. Justice is always depicted as a blind woman holding a balance on two plates; its task should be to balance and not to create this imbalance. Still on the subject of reforms, perhaps someone has forgotten - and I would like to remind him - that in the decree of the doing of June 2013 there was a reform that should have reduced the civil litigation on appeal: I am referring to the famous auxiliary judges on appeal. We've all agreed to this happy rule, but I don't know if anyone has gone to find out about the status of these auxiliary judges and what they're doing. I went to inform myself: the ban was made by the MSC in September 2014, a year and three months later, and expires in October 2014; in a small court of appeal where there are 13 places in competition there are already 300 questions and the deadline expires in mid-October. In the coming months that office will find itself investigating almost 500 questions, in fact rendering useless any help that may come perhaps to the end of 2015 by these judges, after the examination will be done at the councils of the order, at the judicial councils, then at the CSM, then at the Ministry of Justice and finally when will arrive the decree of assumption of these judges that were to help to reduce the civil litigation. These are the decrees-laws that are made, then in the meantime maybe some financial law, some thousandprorogative measures or something that will change the rules. What is the solution and how is the problem of civil justice addressed? Let me give you an example: imagine coming home and finding a bathtub full of water because there is an open faucet: the tub overflows and the water comes to the ground. The first thing that comes to mind to do to anyone is to close the faucet. The same should be done with justice. The causes of quarrels should be addressed and the reason why citizens and businesses need to resort to justice rather than achieve compliance with the rules in a natural way. What do we do instead? We collect water from the ground with rags, continuing to buffer without going to the source. It is there, on the other hand, that we must intervene in the field of civil justice: it is a chronic problem, which in turn comes from complicated rules, from the problems of bureaucracy and the disapplication of the rules themselves. It is on this - I repeat - that we must therefore intervene, reducing the reasons for which a citizen and a company must appeal to the judge, whereas they should be able to see their rights respected always and in any case, without having to resort to justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u26	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would say that there is no doubt - alas - that in Italy there is a need to intervene with urgent measures on a situation of justice that is dramatic. In this regard, just read the introductory report to the measure. If there is some satisfaction in the fact that, due to the reforms implemented in recent years, as shown in the World Bank report, Italy has climbed 37 positions in the ranking on the efficiency of justice, it is also true that we have moved from 140° to 103° place, so among all the nations - and I am referring not only to the Western countries, but also to the Third World, and therefore to the nations that have great economic difficulties - we are the taillight. An impressive fact that this decree underlines is the very important litigation pending, especially on appeal - says the report - with a systematic violation of the reasonable period of time of the trial, referred to in Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is therefore clear that, from the overall point of view, as a New Right Centre, we can only vote favorably on the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, because in fact this situation of extraordinary degradation of justice and this backwardness, which in some way must be attacked, surely justify the presentation by the Government of a decree-law. There is, however, also one but: there are two articles of this decree-law that are frankly absolutely incomprehensible and of which we ask for the deletion, precisely in order to make the discussion on the subject serene and to avoid that, in a decree that aims to attack delays and backwardness, norms such as those referred to in Articles 6 and 12 that, both from the point of view of merit and method, are in some way shocking. In particular, Article 6 regulates the negotiation agreement assisted by a lawyer for the consensual solutions of personal separation and termination of the civil effects of marriage. Article 12 also concerns consensual separation and the joint request for the dissolution of marriage. If we talk about the method, I remember that the House and the Senate have been dealing for months with the so-called short divorce: in particular, the House has already fired, after a discussion in the Commission and in the Chamber, a measure concerning separations and divorces, couples with children or without children. This measure has arrived at the Senate where, in the Committee on Justice, the general discussion on the measure has already taken place and amendments have already been tabled by the opposition, the New Right Centre and the Democratic Party itself, in many parts - I must say - coincident with regard, for example, to the presence or not of children, as well as with regard to mediation and the possibility of healing situations before they extend over time and determine negative effects. Honestly, therefore, it does not understand us how with an urgent decree the Government can override the Chamber and Senate at the moment when Parliament is already in the stage of advanced discussion and deepening of the same matter. There is also the merit, though. Cesare Rimini, perhaps one of the most famous matrimonialists in Italy, secular, indeed very secular, so always in a conflict position with respect to positions that can be defined as confessional, the other day on "La Stampa" defined Italy as an incredible country. On the problem of separations and divorces, on the fact that marriage is indissoluble or not there has been a controversy that has lasted years; a referendum among the most fought by the history of Italy. Now we would be the first country in the world that passes to a different conception of marriage (which, I remember, is carved in our Constitution: the family as a natural society founded on marriage): it is public or publicistic and has reflections towards third parties when it is celebrated, while when it dissolves just a statement between the parties assisted by a lawyer and the civil state officer who records. Rimini said we're the only country in the world. I don't know if we are the only country in the world, if there are some like us, but even if we are not the only ones, this absolutely undeserved passage in a decree-law of course is another fatal blow to the credibility of marriage, which can be dissolved with an extreme ease; without what? This is a very delicate problem: it is clear that how we marry publicly also the dissolution of the marriage, even if consensual, is approved by the president of the court, because he must ensure that the conditions of separation are such, for example, as not to harm the weaker part of the marriage, that surely there can be; therefore there is a public guarantee regarding the fact that a public act can be dissolved with a synallagma by another public act, and that the dissolution of the marriage does not become something to be left simply to the will of the parties. But there is more, given that this measure should be used in some way to streamline arrears. The only situation in which the decrees of homologation of justice do not waste time is precisely this, because the arrears are there when there is litigation, when there is quarrel between the parties, while there are certainly not when the President of the court, tempted to conciliation, only checks that the separation takes place in such a way as to respect also the conditions of both spouses who want to separate. Then, one can be for or against this revolution, which is a true revolution in the very concept of marriage, its formation and its dissolution, but it cannot be done with a decree-law. Then when I hear some of my colleagues from the PD - and I say this to the whole House - that in the Justice Committee they have already anticipated that this measure would be the instrument for introducing the overall reform of the matrimonial institution, divorce and separation, I would remind you that there was a law, the Fini-Giovanardi on drugs, which the Constitutional Court has annulled not on the substance but establishing that it is not possible, in a bill to convert a decree-law, to add arguments that go beyond necessity and urgency, as has been announced in the Justice Commission. Do we make a reform, which is delicate, controversial, which must be deepened, on marriage issues, separation and divorce through a decree-law in 60 days? I feel like I'm dreaming. I would therefore strongly urge the representatives of the Government present to take note of our sense of responsibility, because we recognize the situations of necessity and urgency that lead the Government to attack the backwardness of civil justice, but they delete these two articles: in fact, they completely distort the purposes of the decree-law, which would no longer be those of saving, of disposing of the backwardness, of submitting with more effective systems the mechanism of giving justice to the citizens, but it would be a real reform in the merit of a very delicate issue such as that of marriage. We shall therefore vote in favour of the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency, but with this reservation, which of course will have great importance in the continuation of the examination of the measure, because if one were to insist on doing this reform through a decree-law, surely we would find our disapproval. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u29	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, it seems to those who speak to us that, as regards the constitutionality of the measure, those who dispute its existence fall into a clear opposition, because they affirm the extraordinary emergency in which civil justice comes and then denies the existence of necessity and urgency. I would like to point out immediately that the postponement of the effectiveness of which has been discussed by several parties is dictated by the need for a systemic integration of standards that are extremely innovative and of certain scope for achieving the objectives that the whole measure sets itself. The measure under consideration is a first serious and concrete response to the demand for speeding up the civil process that has brought many negative effects not only in the judicial system but also in the economic system of our country, as I will say later. Moreover, it is undeniable that with its approval Italy will also start to keep pace with the rest of Europe. We know that the issues addressed with the decree-law under consideration are only part of the problems that the Italian civil justice system has highlighted for years. We know, however, that other measures have already been adopted in this parliamentary term, which have dealt with a number of issues, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, which were painful for the judicial system and which have already had optimum effects. Think of the measures on alternative measures to detention, so-called empty prisons and the introduction of the auxiliary judges that Mr Crimes mentioned earlier; this is obviously going to be a regime at this time. We also know that the Government has announced other measures, some of which are before Parliament in the form of draft legislation, which will continue to respond to the need for speed and simplification of the process. Think of the reform of the honorary judiciary and the judges of peace, the so-called short divorce measure, about which Senator Giovanardi spoke, but not exhaustive. It is in this context that the decree-law we are dealing with must be framed, whose requirement, as said, has been determined by the very serious situation in which the civil justice system of the country is placed, which has generated a sense of useless action in the citizens to protect their rights because of the duration of the trial, far superior to that of the average of the European countries, and also because of the sometimes cumbersome procedure dictated by the current legislation. These problems have generated a very serious situation characterized essentially by an abnormal pending civil litigation which increases day by day and which, at the same time, continues to widen the time and duration of the processes. This last aspect now systematically leads to the violation of the time limit for the reasonable duration of the trial, as referred to in Article 6 (1) of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is therefore affected by the decree on the reasonable duration that the current legislation on the civil process fails to ensure, contrary to the constitutional principles contained in the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitutional Charter. Further argument in support of the indifferentness of the measure under consideration is the one already mentioned of the very serious economic context in which our country imposes the adoption of measures aimed at implementing a reversal of the trend of the duration of the proceedings, transforming what today is a factor of burdening the crisis into a possible flywheel for economic growth. We are aware of how many companies have been declared bankrupt due to the impossibility of recovering the disputed claims, due to the lack of definition of legal litigation within a reasonable time. We are aware that many entrepreneurs, especially foreign entrepreneurs, do not intend to invest or undertake new economic initiatives both for the cumbersome bureaucratic system and for the disproportionate duration of any disputes that may be called upon to deal with. Given that the text before the House could possibly be improved in the course of the amendment, if deemed necessary, following the discussion, on the basis of these considerations, the Democratic Party certainly considers that the extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution exist and will therefore vote in favour of the opinion expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u32	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I should like briefly to say that we are opposed to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the constitutional requirements of this measure. As other senators have said, we also believe that the requirement of necessity and urgency is absolutely non-existent, so as to justify the intervention of the Commission in a very sensitive matter in which the ordinary legislator's activity is fundamental, especially in terms of opportunity and effectiveness. The very contents of this measure recall, because of their heterogeneity, some observations that have already been made, even by Quirinale, on the abnormal use, which is being carried out not only in this legislature but also in other previous legislative acts, of the decree of urgency (I believe that the last twenty measures adopted by Parliament are the result of decree-laws). It is a way through which the Assembly and the Commissions are expelled from the discussion, from the deepening, which also raises problems with regard to the terms that are required to implement those measures. In fact, the administrative machinery and the apparatus - I say this for those who are present; the Government knows very well - that they must make effective the provisions that are translated in such fast times into law are slow systems, not able to absorb. Therefore, the effectiveness of this measure will be absolutely nothing compared to the implementation of the provisions. What, for example, about the introduction of new institutions, such as assisted negotiation? What about the transfer to arbitration of a number of ongoing civil proceedings? And then, what was and what was the government's attention to a general rebellion that we have seen from many legal offices and lawyers' organizations? I believe that it would be appropriate for the Government to reflect on this way of intervening on this issue, in particular, on the sensitive issues that the measure contains, and also on the attitude towards justice workers, with regard to the consistency and support that are given on the organisational level to justice workers. I believe that the government should reflect on the need to reduce its proposed legislative action through the decree-laws. Finally, Mr President, I think that Parliament too - and, in particular, this Senate - should, to some extent, insist on the Government in order to allow the legislative process, namely the construction of the legal provisions, to take place more and more in the ordinary way, which is also the most orderly one. I believe that we should insist - and I say this to everyone, including our colleagues in the majority - that, on certain matters in particular, we find the channels to speed up the production of the necessary rules - and we are willing to do so, as we have already told the Minister in the area of justice - but only through the necessary confrontation with all those affected by the events of justice, so as to facilitate also the comparison between the political formations present in Parliament. I want to break a spear in relation to the need that the Government has placed, which concerns the relationship between justice and the economy, especially when it comes to litigation in civil matters. If the objective is, as they say, to signal to the markets that we are addressing the issue of civil justice in order to reduce its time and ensure its outcome, this good intention could have been pursued and could have been pursued better if we used the most ordinary and legitimate way for legislative production, namely the bill. [[Applause from Senators De Cristofaro and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No. 132. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u34	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1594 and 1595, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Chiavaroli and Del Barba, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 1594, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u35	Mr President, the general statement includes the balance sheet and the general balance sheet of value-added assets, as well as the accounts annexed to the accounts of certain autonomous state administrations. The proposed budget under current legislation for 2015 will take, inter alia, as a reference basis for the assessment of liabilities, the final findings contained in the 2013 financial statements, which are also highlighted in the 2014 settlement bill, for the purpose of determining any adjustments to payment authorisations (cash). The budget account, divided into missions, programmes and chapters, shall be accompanied, under the accounting law, by an appropriate supplementary note, by the economic results for each Ministry and by the results of expenditure relating to programmes having an environmental nature or content (the so-called eco-account, annexed to the budget account report). Among the main relatively recent innovations of the Accounting Act, it is recalled in advance that the budget account for missions, programmes and chapters is accompanied, pursuant to Law No 196 of 2009, by specific supplementary notes showing for each administration the financial results, the main facts of the management and the degree of achievement of the objectives related to each programme and report the reasons reported by the administrations on the possible deviations between the initial and the final forecasts. The economic statement, which sets out the economic results for each Ministry and the prospects for reconciliation with the results of the financial statements, is annexed to the bill in order to allow the legislative body to know and deepen the economic information (costs) to complete the general information framework relating to the budget. In addition, an illustration of the results of expenditure on programmes having an environmental nature or content is attached in order to highlight the resources used for environmental protection purposes. With regard to the results of the management of competence, overall, although an improvement has been achieved compared to the final forecasts as result of the 2013 Settlement Act, all balances show a worsening compared to the results achieved in the financial year 2012, with the exception of the recourse to the market. In particular, the net balance to be financed from the State budget for 2013 has a negative value of €28,018 million. The net balance to be financed deteriorated by €38,805 million compared to the balance recorded in 2012, which had, on the other hand, settled at a positive value of €10,787 million. Compared to the final forecasts, this balance was better than expectations, since it was expected to be at a negative value of -51,188 million in 2013. The current balance (public savings) in 2013 showed a deterioration compared to the previous year, amounting to 39.715 million (-8.799 million). The deterioration is to be made in relation to the increase in current expenditure (+21,484 million) greater than the increase in current revenue (+12,706 million). The use of the market (difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans) was finally attested in 2013 to a value of -198.991 million. This balance is the only one that shows an improvement compared to 2012, at a lower value even compared to the final forecasts. The total amount of income checks, including loan ignition revenues, of EUR 818.839 million, showed a positive trend compared to the previous year (EUR+33.264 million, equivalent to +4.2 percent). As also highlighted in the explanatory report, the increase recorded compared to the 2012 financial year, however, originates mainly from the dynamics of the start-up of loans (+25,063 million). The total expenditure commitments, including loan repayment expenditure, totalled 752,983 million, show, compared with the previous year's results, a total increase in expenditure commitments of 3,646 million euro (+0.5 per cent). As far as current expenditure is concerned, commitments amounted to EUR 510.835 million, an increase of EUR 21.484 million compared with the previous year, equivalent to 4.4%. For capital expenditure, with commitments of 71,175 million euros, the 2013 statement shows a significant increase compared to 2012 of 55,9 percent (+25,521 million), substantially attributable to the performance of expenditure commitments related to the category of acquisition of financial assets, which shows an increase of more than 19 billion compared to 2012. The increase, which took place already in the final forecast during 2013 - then substantially confirmed as final - is to be traced mainly to the Fund in order to ensure to the territorial authorities the liquidity necessary for the payment of past debts, pursuant to the aforementioned Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, thus finding concentrated within the aforementioned category, under the heading "Concession of loans". The weight of total expenditure, in relation to GDP, increased from 47.9% in 2012 to 48.3% of GDP in 2013. Turning then to the management of the residues, the size of the residues also in the financial year 2013 remained at considerable levels, both on the revenue side and on the exit side. In summary, the residue account at 31 December 2013 shows active residues of EUR 261,124 million and liabilities of EUR 84,216 million, with an active surplus of EUR 176,907 million. Both the volume of active residues and the volume of passive residues is increased compared to 2012: the active residues increased by 17.847 million (+7.3 percent) and the passive residues increased by 10.186 million (+13.8 percent). In particular, the increase in total passive residues is linked to the increase in newly formed ones, which rose by 16,493 million (about 39,2 percent more, from 42,020 million to 58,513 million). The explanatory report to the bill of financial statements shows that the increase in new training residues is mainly related to a decrease in the payments in account competence during the financial year 2013. The general assets account shows a passive surplus of 1,561,993 million, with a deterioration of 28,243 million compared to the balance sheet at the end of 2012, determined by an increase in assets (+19,291 million) more than offset by the increase in liabilities (+47,534 million). In particular, total assets amounted to EUR 999,008 million, of which: 704,452 million financial assets (up 10,366 million compared to 2012); 290,356 million non-financial assets produced, including tangible and intangible assets produced, raw materials and intermediate products, finished products, valuables and art objects (mobile cultural assets, libraries and archives), up 8,711 million compared to 2012; 4,200 million non-produced non-financial assets, including non-produced tangible assets, i.e. land, deposits and non-cultivated biological resources (a slight decrease compared to 2012 of 214 million). The total liability amounts to EUR 2,561,001 million and refers entirely to liabilities of a financial nature; compared to the closure of the financial year 2012, the amount of financial liabilities increased by EUR 47,534 million. As noted by the Court of Auditors in its Report on the balance sheet, of the total amount of liabilities, of 2,561 billion euros, 1,778.5 billion are related to public debt, consisting of floating debt, BTP, CCC, foreign loans and other redemption debt loans, with an increase of 77.6 billion compared to 2012. The Court of Auditors' judgment of equalisation revealed some irregularities which were the subject of a specific analysis, contained in the report submitted to Parliament. As regards the revenue side, in particular, the examination confirmed the presence of a number of inconsistent accounting elements. There are discrepancies between the final account and the final periodic accounts with regard to the account of jurisdiction and the account of residues, caused inter alia by automatic operations to eliminate negative amounts and by manual corrections sometimes carried out in overlap with those corrections. The amount of the residues is different from that which should result from the initial residues net of the remaining payments into account, and with the addition of the "to be paid' and "to be collected', which, according to the Court of Auditors, is probably, at least in part, to be linked to the inconsistencies that arise as a result of the overlapping of automatic and manual corrections. The amounts of the collections of the residues shall be collected indirectly without proof of their actual payment. On the expenditure side, the Court also pointed out certain items (listed in Annexes L and LI) which were not regular in line with the principles relating to respect for budgetary balances, specific accounting rules or because they were recorded as surplus and carried out in the absence of budget appropriations. In addition, there are a number of remaining decrees for the determination (in respect of chapters listed in Annex M) for which the declaration of regularity is excluded because they are not endorsed or registered by the Court, because they are the subject of observations or because the control procedure has not been completed. On the assets account, the supervisory body noted: differences in the changes in certain places of non-financial assets produced and non-financial non-produced assets; changes in numerous items relating to movable property recorded among non-financial assets produced; discrepancies or irregularities in the balance sheet account which are reflected in the total amount of the assets and liabilities entered in the general assets account; the failure to indicate changes in the management of the revolving fund for the granting of loans to firms at a reduced rate and the revolving fund intended for the granting of financing to facilitate the development of the tourist and spa sector in the depressed areas of the Mezzogiorno, which results in the incompleteness of the assets account. For further comments and details refer to the documentation file of the Budget Service No 12. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u36	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1595, Senator Del Barba.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u37	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, the draft law on the adjustment of the state and autonomous government budget for the year 2014 shows the progress and the results achieved in recent months in terms of fiscal consolidation and consolidation. Compared to the initial forecasts, during the year there was a general improvement, both in terms of competence and in terms of cash, of the budgetary balances relating to public savings and market use, and a slight deterioration in the data on the net balance to be financed and the primary surplus, given that the latter remains largely positive and among the best recorded among the EU Member States. All this in a macro-economic and public finance framework particularly difficult for our country, which, on the one hand, benefits from the easing of tensions on sovereign debt securities (which involves less interest expenditure on securities), on the other hand, takes into account the effects of the negative performance of gross domestic product in the first two semesters of the current year, resulting in lower tax revenues than anticipated. In this respect, limiting the analysis to the main budgetary balances, the results achieved in recent months in the field of public finance are clearly apparent. The forecast forecast for 2013 attests, compared to the initial budget forecasts, to a worsening of the net balance to be financed, net of the debit and accounting regulations, of 3,27 billion euros in terms of competence and of 7,37 billion in terms of cash. On the competence side, the deterioration of the net balance to be financed is attributable: to the increase of the final expenses regarding the initial forecasts for 2.7 billion, of which 3 billion for higher current expenses and 3.55 for greater expenses in capital account, partially offset by a lower expenditure on interest pairs to approximately 3.9 billion euros; to the decrease of the final revenues regarding the initial forecasts, for an amount pairs to 524 million euros, given largely determined by the trend of the tax revenues (- 3.5 billion), partially compensated by the extra-tributary revenues (+2.9 billion euros). In summary, the increased consumption expenditure has been offset over the year by the reduction in interest expenditure and much of the deterioration in the net balance to be financed can be attributed to the increased capital expenditure, i.e. investment. It should be noted that investment expenditure is a key driver for economic support and the results should start to take place in the coming months. The increase in investment expenditure is a particularly positive fact, given that in the past years it has been the expenditure that has suffered the greatest reductions. The linear cuts introduced with the measures adopted since 2008, in fact, appear to have reduced capital expenditure by more than 30%, and having reversed a now consolidated trend is a figure to be emphasized and welcomed, despite the suffering of the real economy and the narrowness of the public finance within which we are moving. Another positive factor, which highlights the state of trust of the international financial markets towards our country, is given by the trend of interest spending: a positive fact deriving from a spread in constant decrease starting from January 2014 up to 138 points a few minutes ago and with declining interest in government bond auctions. The trend in consumption expenditure, below the estimated savings estimates, shows that the season of linear cuts to the public budget, and in particular to the intermediate consumption of the public administration, has run out. All that could be cut was basically cut. You can't go any further. The Government, aware of the situation, in order to achieve new and effective savings of public expenditure, is preparing, vice versa, a series of interventions of revision of the public expenditure based on processes of in-depth analysis and monitoring of all the posts of the public budget, on the overcoming of the criterion of the historical expenditure, on the definition of the priorities of allocation of the public resources, on the rationalization of the managerial processes, on the identification and the updating of the essential levels of the performances in the individual sectors, on the safeguard of the expenditure in account capital and on the aggregation and rationalization of the purchases. Since the implementation of all these interventions, some of which have already since the next budgetary session, in addition to improving the development of consumption expenditure by the public administration, resources will be recovered to support real production and household consumption. Going back to the budget balances, a figure of fundamental importance to test the state of health of the public finances of our country is represented by the public savings, given by the difference between current revenue and current expenditure before interest. The public savings, in the current year, recorded an improvement compared to the initial forecasts, for an amount of 251 million euros, attesting itself on a forecast of 14,650 million euros. Similarly, another key figure in public finance is the use of the market, which results from the difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure (the latter are given by the sum of the final expenditure and the repayment of loans). The balance on market use shows a sharp improvement compared to the initial forecasts, showing overall a positive impact of € 10.1 billion. The changes proposed by the adjustment represent an improvement of EUR 14.198 million, while administrative acts had led to a deterioration of EUR 4.010 million. The primary surplus, bearing in mind the good performance of public finance and the effectiveness of the measures taken in recent years, remains largely positive, even if there is a worsening compared to the initial forecasts in terms of both competence and cash, respectively of 7.1 billion and 11.2 billion euros. The data on the above-mentioned balances confirm a substantial balance of public finance and show that the mechanisms of expenditure control are working, even if there is a difficult economic situation. Another interesting fact, highlighted by the 2014 adjustment, is that relative to the evolution of the residues. At the end of 2013, the residual liabilities for final expenditure amounted to €83,650 million (of which €58,120 million new training), an increase of approximately €10.3 billion compared to the similar amount established in 2012. Over the last decade, the trend of passive residues has been high. Following a fall in 2007, following a reduction in the time limits for administrative peremption for capital expenditure, in the following years the trend resumed to increase to 108 billion in 2010, in order to reverse the declining route until 2012, the year in which the lowest figure was recorded (73.34 billion euros). The increase in growth recorded at the end of 2013, which mainly concerns the newly formed residues, is mainly due to the decrease in payments on account of responsibility. In the current year, the total figure resulting from the adjustment of the alleged liabilities amounts to EUR 59,149 billion, with a total deviation of approximately EUR 25 billion. These data are of fundamental importance, as they provide us with precise information on both the performance of public administration payments and the possible development of net debt in the event of payment of these payments. With regard to payments of public debt, the Government is particularly committed and in recent months, in various measures, all necessary measures have been taken to speed up payments and to remove obstacles to the effective delivery of what is due to companies. The development of the real economy leaves open the problems of growth, work and sustainable development: these themes, on which the Government is working because, in the absence of growth, in the long run all the efforts made to improve the performance of the public accounts risk being frustrated. And we can well say that this work is done by keeping the accounts in order, because it is a fundamental prerogative for a prompt hope of restarting the real economy, an objective which also wants to aim for the good management of public finance. We currently have among the lowest levels of annual deficit-to-GDP ratio among EU Member States and we are among the leading countries in Europe for the primary surplus level but, despite this, the debt ratio continues to grow, and this is because GDP grows little or decreases. The main problems we face are, therefore, growth and the exit from the austerity-recession spiral, as we have always pointed out over the last few months as a Government and as a Democratic Party. The proposals in the field and those that will be approved in the next few days represent a fundamental junction towards a recovery path. The so-called decree unlocks Italy approved a few days ago, the process of revision of public expenditure and the next budgetary maneuver can represent valid instruments to support growth and equity, to propose a further reduction of the tax burden on labour and the lowest incomes and above all to make the consumption of citizens and families resume. In conclusion, we are aware of the great work that is being done to consolidate and improve the state of our public finances, but also of what needs to be done, from here to the next few days, to give prospects and opportunities for work to people and businesses, to start really that reconstruction of the country without which even the consolidation of the public accounts, still documented today, risks being ephemeral.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u38	I declare the joint general discussion open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u39	Mr President, let's talk about the state budget, let's talk about our money. To Deputy Minister Morando we must say that we are extremely happy, because a few days ago we discovered that we are richer: we are richer thanks to the proceeds of drugs and to the work of the prostitutes, that so far they were not calculated but that from tomorrow they will substantially enter the state budget, even if not with a voice but in reflection, because this will allow to free up huge resources due to the change in the debt-GDP ratio. To tell you the truth, this is not the first time that prostitutes have entered a state budget. If memory does not betray me, Machiavelli made a mission to France, at the time of the Medici, with a crowd of men, wagons, caravans and soldiers, and when he returned he had to report everything. The Medici asked why so many florins in one voice: man is not made of wood. Yes, because in three months of mission the whole troop, as well as eating, had probably had some other need. Let's get to the serious stuff. We don't know where you're going with this. You wander, you wander: you want the cuts and you don't want to cut. One day linear cuts of 3 percent are announced and the next day they no longer cut. You cut or you don't cut? Yeah, it's cut, but it's not on the school. And you start cutting out what you don't have to basically cut. We saw that the only thing cut is the cutter, in the sense that he quit just the man who had to use scissors and tell where to go to cut. We realized that poor Cottarelli will soon return to do the work he did before. A major contradiction on Europe. Every other day the Premier preaches in schools or other squares the need to remain faithful and loyal, as European citizens, to European laws, except every other day to attack Europe, to claim greater independence and autonomy, making European Commissioners angry who, as stunted masters, have also responded. Too bad our Premier, as an undisciplined student, only responded with one gesture: licking ice cream. A nodal point that we never see faced is the work, which in this country is not there. The work is not there, because we have a currency too heavy: we have a currency that makes it convenient to buy from abroad rather than produce in Italy; a currency always wanted by you, by the great master Prodi. It is not appropriate to produce in Italy because abroad it is produced at a lower cost and with the same money the Italians - we were told - buy exactly double what is produced. Forward on this road: it has no longer been produced and the factories close and those that do not are forced to relocate where the labor costs less. We are basically reduced to the level we know. What can we do? What does a government have to do? Strangely enough, the only way is to demand less and leave more in the pockets of businesses, families and citizens. By lowering the tax burden - it seems to me that some 40 countries have taken this path - and introducing a fixed and non-progressive rate, because otherwise at some point the evasion breaks out, everyone pays taxes. A fixed rate of 20% would be the only way out of this government. One may wonder why I am referring to 20%, because we have experienced that rate. Mr. Deputy Minister, you will remember when, in 2010, you experienced the dry coupon. At that time real estate rentals were calculated on the upstream earnings of each legal entity. By separating the real estate rentals, bringing them from 30 or 40 percent who paid in the mountain to about 20 percent according to the type of contract, it registered in 2011 and 2012 (for 2013 we are still waiting, because the data are not provided to us in sudden times) a surge in the revenue of the real estate rental. In fact, if you have to pay 60%, let's try to think what activity makes 60 percent: it doesn't exist; on the contrary, there is only escape, it only stimulates evasion. By bringing it to 20%, it has been shown that even for those who did not make contracts, for those who did them in black or made bogus contracts, that was a figure that could be paid: everything that was previously submerged has emerged. This is not an idea, but it is the story that teaches: experimented in 2010, four years later we have already seen the effects it produces. Also, you have to release the resources that are there and that are frozen today. I am referring to the savings, the provisions that local authorities have that cannot be spent on the rules we have not yet understood the ratio. The stability pact must be unblocked, but not for all institutions, but only for those who are virtuous, for those who have the budgets in order, who are not in structural deficits, have no economic imbalances but have resources. We need services and a public order. You need a question. It is criminal not to be able to release those resources and hold them still. We'd like to say a few things to the Premier. Listen to some good advice, like the one from FIAT CEO Chrysler and now Ferrari too. To us he seems a man who has achieved some goals and has shown that he knows how to achieve something. He said not to give the times on all things, not to say 30 things a day, but to say three things and to do them. Say three things, but do them and, once done, go to the next three. In our opinion, in addition to being a matter of common sense, it would make a premier look like he'd be waving something every day, except the day after he had to find excuses. For example, the last question concerns the debts of the public administration: we should have paid them a few days ago, but we see that we still cannot find about 30 billion. But we understand it: if the whole system is in collapse, no magic Renzi arrives to unravel the situation. Don't say it, so maybe we'd be even more understanding, maybe, in finding combined solutions, helping, suggesting. Italians are fed up with things they didn't know until yesterday: twitter, selfies, the Premier's ads, not to mention the 80 euros. The Premier will tell this story throughout the legislature, which does not exist though, because someone received them and someone else had to pay them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I think - for example - of those who have an income and a property, who received 80 euros on income, but then had to pay them with the other hand, because the taxation on real estate has increased equally. Are we gonna say it all? The only redistributive maneuver in modern history was made by the Berlusconi Government, together with the League, in 2001 - which means that there were still the "lirettes" - when it was established that all pensions under a certain amount had to be raised to a million. 18.07 (Follow DIVINA) The average minimum pension was then between $400,000 and $500,000 - it all went to $1 million. Too bad that that great redistributive maneuver was frustrated by another President-in-Office of the Council, who committed himself to Europe - and then headed the Commission - and who, by introducing the euro, that is to say substantially equalizing a change of 1,900 lire (almost 2,000) to the old mark, that is to say to the thousand lire, has frustrated what was a very intelligent maneuver, bringing it back exactly to zero. To close, let's think about our business, what do we have up to our hair! Do you think you have damaged Russia, going to instal us in the diatribe that exists between the USA and Moscow and entering us among the countries that participate in the sanctions? We have damaged our companies, the few companies that still produced and were able to export. We have damaged our tourism, which is now done only by availability from that country. Russia immediately turned its eyes, signing agreements with China for 30 years of gas supply: everything that we will not buy and that Russia will decide not to give to Europe or Italy will be directed towards China. Russia, on the other hand, will buy from China all fresh vegetables, beef, pork and chicken. Everything is already signed. Let's forget about Obama's nonsense, which he's been saying too much about right now. If we had followed Obama, in fact, we would already be at war against Syria, except then to have to say today to rest poor Assad. The real risk, in fact, was not the Government, but the one that was born around, with two regular armies - the Syrian and the Iraqi - unable to face a group of rebels, while Russia's support could be decisive for world peace. Let's forget about Russia, which serves our economy and the peace of the planet at the moment, and let's think a little more about our affairs and interests, which perhaps the government has forgotten. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u40	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects that have impressed me most in the bill to settle the budget for the financial year 2014. The first is contained in Article 2, which increases the threshold for issuing public debt securities by EUR 40 billion, bringing the total to EUR 99 billion. This means that the forecast contained in the 2014 Budget Act has been totally disregarded. But what is the point of this increase - we ask ourselves - and what justifies a greater use of debt? Among the expenditure items of the various Ministries there is one of about 1.5 million euros destined to the Agricultural Institute for the Overseas which, based in Florence and under the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, generates revenue for 13,000 euros, but has a cost for the staff of almost one million euros. Among the activities of the Institute - it is stated in its report for the year 2013 - there is the realization of the Coffee School. Can we call him a useless body? The second aspect that I would like to stress, which is far more important than spending on this Institute, is the 2.866 million which will cost us this year to join the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism. The capital of the ESM, also called the State-Save Fund, is 700 billion euros, and seems to be only the beginning, as its managers can increase it without constraints. According to the Treaty establishing the ESM, approved by Parliament in 2012 in the most complete silence of the media, Italy will have to pay a capital of over 125 billion euros (I said well: 125 billion). Payment of participation fees is compulsory. We learn, in fact, from the reading of the Treaty, to Article 25, paragraph 2, that, if a State adherent to the fund does not pay its share, appropriate measures will be taken. The Board of Governors shall be authorised to request payment of interest on late payments on the amount due. What, then, would these measures be appropriate? Article 32 makes this clear: the ESM has the full legal capacity to acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property from any acceding State. The State-Save Fund - it should be remembered - will be managed by an organization with legal personality that will enjoy total immunity. Can we think of anything? ECB. In fact, the assets, availability and properties of the ESM, wherever they are and from whomever they are held, enjoy immunity from any form of jurisdiction. They are not subject to any form of search, seizure, confiscation, expropriation. As if that were not enough, the records of the ESM and all documents belonging to the ESM or held by it are inviolable. The immunity also applies to all the members of the Fund: another privilege which, perhaps, in the haste to approve the Treaty, the Members of Parliament of the previous legislature did not understand well. What are we going to do now? Do we pay our share to the State-Save Fund, or do we have the will to take back some of our sovereignty? The ESM and the fiscal compact are worth hundreds of billions of euros, they take away all ability to maneuver the states and condemn governments to not being able to invest in social spending and the real economy. Putting public money in the State-Save Fund, by the way, will do nothing. The debt crisis can be triggered scientifically and appropriately, as demonstrated in 2011 with Italy, or worse still, with Greece. The intervention of the ESM means only a transfer of national resources to the holders of the State's public debt, in some cases in the hands of large international speculators. Moreover, the constraints which force us to balance the budget are intended solely to reduce the State to a passive actor, with the sole task of fiscal consolidation imposed by Brussels. Pursuing a balanced budget, by cutting public spending, will never be able to restart the economy. Italy needs instead to overtake the fateful 3%, as other European states have done and are doing, in order to allow our economy to recover. What is afflicting our lives is not the economic crisis. That is only the consequence of the prevailing mercantile logic and the power of finance. The ESM, combined with the fiscal compact, is destroying not only our economy, but also the very idea of democracy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the general statement and budgetary adjustment contain significant and critical data which enable assessments to be made of financial management and its impact on the economy. While positive effects have been recorded, such as the stability of the deficit-GDP ratio, the level of the primary surplus, the reduction of interest on debt and the reduction of public administration expenditure, on the other hand, effects of opposite sign have been found, such as the decrease in tax revenue, the increase in current primary expenditure, the reduction in capital expenditure and, finally, the increase in the debt-GDP ratio. If the state statement shows that the effectiveness of the recovery path undertaken by Italy to protect its own accounts is evidenced by the magnitude of the primary surplus, whose level as a percentage of GDP was higher than that recorded on average by the countries of the European Union, why has the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development drastically cut growth estimates, so Italy will close 2014 with a 0.4% decrease in GDP and will be the only G7 country with the least sign? Strict fiscal adjustment and repeated spending cuts have certainly not led to any improvement in the economy. These circumstances were, inter alia, highlighted in the Bank of Italy's bulletin. The Governor noted that the combined costs of the recession and restrictive budgetary policies were high. The state of the economy remains fragile especially in the world of work. These policies have led to a quarter reduction in industrial production, a one million job losses over the last seven years and an unemployment rate of more than 12%. Significant is the figure for the lower indirect tax revenue (i.e. 3.6%), with particular reference to VAT, given that consumption dynamics have also been less favourable than expected. This reference is perplexing, especially considering that, in the face of such a situation that does not promise good for the state's coffers, the Government increases the dose. In fact, the Government has refinanced the program of naval re-armament, that is the program of international cooperation italo-French FREMM, that precisely previews, for Italy, the acquisition of 10 multimission frigates. At present, the first eight frigates have been financed, with an option for the remaining two frigates to be confirmed by spring 2015. This is a simple example of how, even if there is less revenue due to indirect tax inflection, the state's finances are still getting worse. The Court of Auditors is right when it says that the innovative action that should trigger a process of economic growth has remained confined to the reforms of the institutional and constitutional structure, implemented with political solutions that are difficult to understand by the public and without direct effects on the national economic system. Unfortunately, the weak expectation of growth is soon betrayed by the lack of real structural interventions that should reactivate production capacity, stimulate consumption and produce the effect of a redistribution of national income in favour of companies and workers, acting on real quantities and not on financial ones. Certainly, among the interventions there is also the one aimed at attracting new investments. As the Court of Auditors pointed out, the State should commit its energies - clearly financial - to particular areas. These include education, culture, research and work; environment; cultural heritage, tourism and, therefore, wealth for the country. In these thematic areas, in particular in 2013, appropriations were very small and significantly lower than in the previous year. But we are all aware of this, given that the measures taken by this Commission, and the measures taken before it, have been examined and discussed in this House. Quoting education, it can be pointed out that the amounts allocated to research and innovation to date should enable 1,53 per cent of GDP to be achieved in 2020, where the Community target is instead 3%. For this sector, where revitalisation strategies are announced, such as improving the quality of teaching, modernising and enhancing key competences for lifelong learning have been ignored. This situation has a clear effect on Italy's backwardness compared to other countries of the European Union. Again with regard to GDP, I conclude with a perspective that will not be exciting but, on the contrary, puts into circulation a great disappointment. The big problem remains the reduction of the public debt stock, but the real news, the saddest ever that puts the Court of Auditors on the table, is as follows: In order to reduce debt, in addition to the necessary recovery in growth, to save public expenditure and a primary surplus of at least 5% of GDP, analysts propose massive demobilisation of the significant real estate and public securities, as well as substantial securitisation, with a privatisation programme for public companies. This sad truth is perhaps the one that an Italian does not want to listen to, but that perhaps he will suffer in a short time. In times of crisis such as those we are living in, when economic policies have lost contact with social dynamics, this form of democracy seems to be blocked. That is why courageous choices are needed in defense of the weak, the families and the businesses that run the social system and also need strong choices, aimed at combating the serious phenomenon of corruption. This phenomenon, like tax evasion, the black economy and organised crime, seriously affects our country's economy and development and causes the deterrent effect of rejecting investments by foreign companies. It would therefore be desirable to give serious consideration to the contexts which favour it and to the effectiveness of the remedies that have so far been used. It is true that corruption is facilitated by excessive laws that cause the multiplication of competences and responsibilities and increases the non-transparency of administrative decision-making procedures. It is true that the rules must be simplified and the decision-making centres reduced, but this must not justify the abolition of rules and controls, as - we know - took place at Expo Milano 2015. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing my deep trust in the common sense of all of us in the desire to set up the best rules to combat this illegal phenomenon, to bring about the right benefits for the state budget and for the whole community. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u44	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u45	Madam President, the draft bill approving the 2013 financial statements and settling of the 2014 financial statements indicate, as has also emerged from the very accurate reports that we have heard, that a number of phenomena are in place that together result in a progressive deterioration of the current state and of the prospects for public finance. These trends, however - and I would like to stress this - are only partially recorded by the bill at our examination, as they fail to indicate the impact that the macroeconomic framework is having on public finance, even if the law, in truth, would require it to do so. In particular, the draft adjustment law, when updating the budget forecasts, should take into account changes in economic performance and key indicators such as GDP, employment, consumption and investment, as provided for in the new (new) accounting law. But that doesn't seem to us to be in the current bill. The same applies to the updating of revenue forecasts, which seem to have failed to verify and record consistency - for example - with the August self-liquidation. Another element that does not appear to be projected into the budget is the effect of effectively reducing the forecasts resulting from the so-called cuts to cover a number of fiscal support measures for the economy and incomes. In the absence of such effects, the rules - as you know and as Deputy Minister Morando knows well - provide for the so-called safeguard clauses, i.e. increases in taxation of the same amount. Now, because we obviously want to avoid this effect - since in 2011 this threat of the safeguard clauses provided for by the legislation for about 20 billion caused very serious political effects, at international level first and internally then - the effects of the mechanisms put in place on the ground of the reduction of expenditure should be clearly visible and perceptible. I do not think that by setting up an exact and up-to-date representation of the state-of-the-art government's financial performance, perhaps it can do a little window dressing of the 2014 budget and appear a way - which the government may also consider appropriate - to reassure and not alarm citizens, businesses and international observers. In my opinion, however, this is not a good tactic, because it will be on those data of 2014 that will then be measured the impact of the 2015 maneuver that the Government is working on. There will then be negative dynamics already in place for many months, which will inevitably be ascribed to the policies of this Government. This being said, the main cause of concern is the trend in revenue, which is a substantial drop in VAT, since the increase in revenue is attributable exclusively to the acceleration of government payments. This operation, moreover, proceeds with inexorable slowness, obviously mitigating the macro-economic impact, unlike the always mentioned Spain, which in this case should actually be remembered, because it was successful in a single shot, one shot, to deliver 80 billion euros, which are much more productive in terms of support and the re-introduction of liquidity than the monthly stillicide of a billion here and a billion there, which does not give the perception of such a push to liquidity. Secondly, it is also worrying about the increase in expenditure, which can only be attributed to the reduction of interest rates. Totally invisible, as I mentioned just now, are the effects of rationalization actions to be carried out in implementation of the 2014 Stability Act, expenditure reductions that were expected in 523 million, already quantified, while the DEF ensured that the structural interventions to be carried out and the operation of the actions already undertaken would be able to produce expenditure savings of 4.5 billion. Where are these effects? If they are registered, it would be useful - as I said - to bring them out and identify them, also in order to understand the ability (or inability) of the individual administrations to adapt to the processes of reorganization and efficiency. I believe that this action and this type of management of administrations with a view to their efficiency should be one of the main tasks to be entrusted to the individual ministers. This is inevitably the way forward, if we want to create room for manoeuvres to support the economy, through a significant tax reduction, and this will also be the way forward if Europe gives us some flexibility, because our level of public debt will not allow us to loosen the grip on the accounts, but it will also have to be an opportunity to intervene on the administration, not by cutting brutally and crudely only where it is easy to make linear cuts, but to give efficiency and quality. That is what the citizens are asking of us and that today, with the digital and telematic revolution, is really within reach. The President-in-Office of the Council has made it clear to us and the hope is that the whole Government will then have the capacity and determination to achieve this vision of change. On the other hand, it is clear, on the other hand, that even in the past, when expenditure was higher and there were no such external constraints, the services and services of the public administration were certainly not of greater quality. Therefore, it is not the volume of expenditure, but the ability to manage, optimize and allocate it more efficiently that can change the quality of services and increase our competitiveness. From this point of view, the increase in passive residues is a significant and not positive factor, because it reveals the operational difficulties of public administrations, especially in the investment sector. Investments which, as is well known, have fallen enormously in the forecast budgets of recent years (even if they are now trying to reverse the trend) and which, if not achieved due to bureaucratic impediments or slow procedures, constitute a further brake on the still difficult recovery. Therefore, the documents at our examination highlight (as mentioned, not always in a clear and exhaustive way) the interweaving of the economic crisis, public finance and social distress. Indeed, the social distress present in our country is widening and deepening. The crisis is global, but Italy, precisely because of its financial situation and in particular the accumulated debt, its difficulties to manage the administration and to direct it towards the objectives of the policies of recovery, is more in difficulty and is more exposed than other European partners, as we are also told by this week's controversy in international newspapers about the default risk for Italy. Persevering, as Germany does, only on the lines of rigour and not activating strong policies for European growth is, in my view, a short-sighted and self-harmful position for the whole of Europe. On the other hand, today's data on the decline in industrial production in Germany confirm that in the medium term no one is saved from the recession unless there is a reversal of trend. However, we cannot do this alone; we cannot afford it, because the picture that emerges from the adjustment confirms it. Hence we must start to implement a radical reform plan to get the economy back on track, to be credible in guiding a reversal of the trend in European policies. We must, of course, do so quickly because the crisis, as Draghi tells us today, will become worse in 2015. So, time is running out. This will have to be the objective of the next law of stability, and the data of the settlement that we are discussing today tell us that the work that awaits us will not be easy. [[Applause from Senators Maran and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u46	I note that there are still five speeches, the duration of which is close to the deadline set for the conclusion of our work. As has also been announced in the short term, the Presidency will allow the end-of-session speeches at the end of the general debate. The afternoon sitting of tomorrow will begin with the replies of the rapporteurs. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u47	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are about to approve the accounts and the adjustments, two measures based on numbers. But the numbers, colleagues, are not aseptic: the numbers have a soul, which we read differently from what the two rapporteurs have said. We the numbers, which are objective, do not see them with pink glasses because, if the net balance to be financed goes from 21 billion in 2012 to -41 billion for the current year, it means that perhaps this Government has burned 60 billion euros. If public savings go from 64 billion to 14 billion, it means that 50 billion savings have been thrown away in two years. It is then true that the primary surplus increases compared to the forecasts, but it is halved compared to that of last year (from 102 billion goes to 57 billion). So, another 50 billion that you burned yourself with your policies exquisitely of ads, of slides, but certainly not concrete and not truthful. Market use goes from € 187 billion to € 269 billion by the end of this year. Of course, you will say: but there are 40 billion to pay the debts of the public administration. Rightly, but of the EUR 56 billion of debts to companies established on 21 July this year, only EUR 26.1 billion has been paid. The others? Renzi, on March 28, had promised by September 21 - that is, last Sunday - the extinction of the claims that companies boast towards the public administration. What about it? Do we try to hear what entrepreneurs think that they still have to receive their compensation for the work they have done? In this respect, I would like to point out that the report also shows the increase in passive residues. It seems to me that when passive residues increase there is perhaps something wrong: it means that the State does not pay, even if passive residues have increased. Another important fact is the fact that the public debt, which in 2013 was EUR 2,070 billion, in the first months of this year has increased by almost another 100 billion. A public debt that is, yes, our problem and that reaches over 130 percent of the debt-to-GDP ratio, or perhaps not because now other data have been included in GDP so it will certainly be below; but, Madam President, this is very important and you know why? Because you increase the current expenditure: that's the real damage. This government has been facilitated, it has had savings in interest, since interest on loans has decreased: it could have used these resources to do anything else, not to increase current expenditure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As Draghi rightly stated yesterday - it is yesterday's news - the saving on debt service was not used to reduce debt, but only to finance current expenditure. We know that current expenditure is not productive, it does not increase GDP and it does not make our economy grow. The only real expense that could, instead, be the flywheel for our economy is that in capital account, but, also here, you reduce by 13%, removing 6 billion euros, that would have been useful to pay jobs, salaries and public works. What did you do instead? You have impoverished the state's assets; everything that is infrastructure has been impoverished, obviously creating damage to society over time. GDP is in recession: this has also been certified. It is data, therefore, that is not to be read, dear rapporteur, in a positive sense: these are numbers that we read in a negative sense. Among other things, your policies bring less revenue, but not so much because you have lowered the rates, on the contrary: you have done so, through the cuts to local authorities, that they must increase indirect tariffs, through the increase of the IMU, the TASI and the TARI and with the imposition of all those local leaps, which serve exquisitely to succeed in covering essential services that you, Government, can no longer make sure to the mayors, because of the policy of indiscriminate cuts you have implemented. There are, therefore, lower revenues because the tax base has decreased, all trade and trade have decreased; the market has decreased. There is less IRES and VAT revenue in the adjustment figures, despite the increase in VAT rates from 21% to 22%. These are data that certify the recession. The CERVED - given today - attests that 8,120 companies have failed in the first six months of 2014. In the second quarter of 2014 they closed 4,441 companies, with an increase of 14 percent compared to the same period of 2013. Do you still see positivity in these numbers? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]] Furthermore, Madam President, there is no longer any investment in the municipalities because, in addition to the smaller transfers, this Government has prevented those who have their own supplies, because it has actually made a serious spending review and a prudent management of the expenditure, to be able to make investments, because the mayors cannot use their resources for the Stability Pact that you do not want to negotiate in Europe. A spending review, the one you use to cover everything, to cover the unlikely, except then to understand that it has not yet left and, according to members of the left, like Mr Fassina, will not leave. The cuts in local authorities - unfortunately - are the only certainty that this majority produces. Here in Rome you continue to cover all your measures with funds that do not have adequate technical reports, through the use of linear reductions in budget allocations, which make the same clauses of invariance of previous measures unsustainable. Continue using capital endowments to cover current charges. The State uses cover from the use of resources from economic impulses without an adequate demonstration of the actual revenues from them. Madam President, this account and this settlement certify what the North League has always said: the fault of this state of crisis of the country is essentially centralism, which does not want to change, which wants to put the burden of the crisis substantially to the local authorities, the regions, the citizens, through an indirect increase in taxes. Go and see how extra-tributary revenues increase, while the ugly bureaucratic machine does not stop consuming wealth, just at the expense of productivity, business and investment. Speaking of which, go and read the Court of Auditors' report where you will find interesting observations. The Court of Auditors says that the examination has confirmed the presence of a number of inconsistent accounting elements; there are discrepancies between final accounts and final periodic accounts; the amount of residues is different from what should result from the initial residuals; there are also items of expenditure that are not regular and in contrast to budgetary balances, and so on. Now, you try to see what would happen in a company where the Finance Guard detects the above-mentioned irregularities; or in your municipality: ask your mayor what would happen to him if the Court of Auditors made the same observations. I leave the answer to you! Madam President, what has been said demonstrates the policies of this Government. All legislative initiatives that make us Europe's taillight and GDP, which is falling, certify precisely this synthesis. You didn't want to pursue the path of local autonomy, so we find ourselves in a flooded situation, a country that is firm on itself, that is packed on financial and economic alchemies that bring exclusively poverty, recession and unemployment; and I repeat, it is not we of the North League to say this, it is the data that certify it. So these very numbers show that the responsibility is exquisitely with this Government, because the quarters in which GDP is falling are your quarters, are certainly not ours. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Petrocelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u49	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u50	Madam President, I am speaking very briefly because this is not a corrective manoeuvre (the Government has always said that it would not make corrective manoeuvres): it is a budgetary adjustment, it is taken into account some forecasts that do not correspond to the actual development of expenditure and we intervene to do this type of accounting operation. The accounts also take account of developments in public expenditure. There is no big news, and I will not take this opportunity to say that things are bad. Unfortunately, I think that the government knows better than I do and that the Minister of the Economy and Deputy Minister Morando know better than I do, otherwise we would not be in recession, otherwise GDP would increase and probably we would have a condition of debt reduction rather than the opposite, that is an increase in public debt. But this is an opportunity to make a consideration, since a controversy has also opened around who would be more reformer than others compared to the needs of the public accounts, to respect the parameters that require us to international agreements, to the consolidation of our economy, to the rationalization and redevelopment of public expenditure and to the organization of the whole administrative apparatus of the State and local authorities. I believe that in order to be innovators, we must not continue to follow a path that we have seen to be bankrupt and that has been the case above all in terms of growth and not in terms of reducing expenditure. I am not convinced and I will never be convinced that reducing public expenditure can be a real solution to the problem of debt aggression. On the contrary, I think that it is growth and the construction of wealth that we must aim to achieve. We must grow necessarily, but growing also means growing in a positive way; growing means doing so in respect of the needs of our community, respecting the need to safeguard our territory, our natural beauties and the ecosystem. In other words, we should invest in what is the new frontier and Italy would also have the cards in order to do so: it should correct its propensity to deindustrialise. Italy must become a consumer market and have access to its own possibilities to produce and do so in an appropriate manner to the needs of the time. He should be careful about the issues of work to ensure safety and loyalty the relationship between enterprise, company and worker; he should make the worker part of the joint effort, which is to restore the state's coffers and give a perspective of development to the entire country. The only thing that we must not do, and that I think is a conservation attitude, is to proceed on the ground of recessive austerity that we have experienced in recent years. It is not explained, moreover, why America, which intends to make policies with new attention to collective needs (the first operation that the President of the United States does is to extend health care protection) and to the social sector, which we respond to with a contraction of these attentions; and do not avoid waste, indeed, appear increasingly evident in the eyes of all. We cannot then think of tackling the problem of public finances by keeping the bureaucracies that we have today, indeed by giving them an excessive power, I would say new. Those who make the laws, Madam President, are precisely the ministerial bureaucracies and we have become a sort of notary, who raises his hand to say "it was good" and because we have not changed them, it is precisely those bureaucracies that have led us to the crisis, if there is a bureaucratic responsibility for the crisis, and that keep us in crisis. This is a measure of budgetary adjustment: well, let us settle down. Of course, we will vote against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, since we are faced with the law of stability, we have a duty to correct programming by identifying the right estimates. It is not the first year, it is not the second year or the third year, and every year the Minister of Economic Affairs comes to say that we are going to grow next year. What happens at the end of the year? We have a less sign in front of the value of GDP and we discover that we are in recession! We ask, then, please, that ministers do not make Merlin magician and commit themselves to solving the problems of the country, not developing forecasts but working on the issues! That is what we are asking for, because in this way we will be able to achieve stable planning and respect the obligation to balance the budget, which we unfortunately gave ourselves in the Constitution, and the parameters that we have heard apply internationally, while at the same time making the best use of what we have not to maintain privileges or to check out Parliament but, on the contrary, to promote the participation of all: a choral effort and a collective commitment to restore the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u51	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 30 September to vote for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative is convened on Thursday 25 September, at 8.30 a.m., in the Senate of the Republic, to proceed to the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u52	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report represents what the state has actually done in a year and it is unacceptable for us that the other political forces should focus their attention solely on the budget and be disinterested in what is actually happening. The forecast balance, in fact, for most of the content is essentially unenforced and this can be verified only by looking at the final balance with the magnifying glass. The practice that has developed is that of co-management, where the political forces, Democratic Party and Forza Italia, pretend to clash on the budget of forecast while in fact they decide together on the majority of the measures that generate precisely the final. In 2012 the revenues of the State amounted to 785,6 billion euros and the expenditures to 749,3 billion euros; in 2013 the revenues have been increased pairs to 33,3 billion euros and the expenditures an increment pairs to 3,6 billion. The accounting, it should be specified, is linked to the settling law that updates the forecasts in the course of the year. In the statement, the mission "Management of public debt" goes from 217 billion euros of the initial forecasts to 249,6 of the definitive ones (set-up), but the ignition of loans actually established for the year 2013 piles to 264 billion. So it was wrong to predict twice, with an error of 47 billion. In 2013, we committed 81.9 billion to passive interest. A significant part of the state budget is therefore devoted to the service of public debt which commits 40-45 percent of the total expenditure on the payment of interest payable and the redemption of securities. It should be noted that in 2013 debt repayment amounted to 171 billion. Let's say that with the deadlines it went quite well, in the face of the new debts contracts that amount to 264.8 billion. In short, as always, we continue to finance ourselves with public debt. Analyzing revenue and expenditure in detail, we see that the final revenues, represented for the most part by tax and extra-tributary revenues, amounted to 550 billion in 2013 (ten more than in 2012); the final expenses, which are used to run the state machine and pay interest on public debt, amounted to 582 billion in 2013 (47 billion more than in 2012). With what the State has established, we have failed to cover the commitments, generating a net balance to be financed negative for 28 billion; in 2012 the net balance to be financed was positive for 10,8 billion. This had a negative impact on the primary surplus, which went from 92.2 billion in 2012 to 53 billion in 2013. For 2014, the situation does not change. The adjustment, which is net of the accounting regulations, tells us that, against final expenses of 559 billion, the final revenues are just 517.8 billion, and the net balance to be financed is negative for 41.6 billion. This highlights all the weakness of our country that, reducing the primary surplus to 48 billion, marks a trend that is going to consolidate over time. The sacrifices that Italians make to pay taxes are of little use. In fact, the use of the market for 2014 is expected in an optimistic way to 269,5 billion; the ignition of the loans is pairs to 279 billion for competence and 347,9 billion per cash: Renzi's a bomber. He made a record. This set of figures shows us more and more the chasm of public finances and the increasing use of public debt to finance expenditure. To point out how important these numbers are and how indispensable it is to start from these data in order to make a normal programming, I make a current example that can be useful to underline the limits of the action and the fake reforms they produce. We are talking about jobs act, school, culture, research, development, public administration, but all without resources and without greater financial burdens. If you talk about jobs act you can't ignore a reform of social shock absorbers; or if you promise to hire 150,000 school precarious by 2015, you should say where you take the 4 billion needed. But I would like to focus on another example that is even more pregnant. Both Renzi and Padoan consider the commitment of the full payment of the debts of the public administration to be maintained, taking advantage of the rules on the transfer of the credits contained in the decree of the famous 80 euros, according to which the enterprises can request the certification and be served the invoices in the bank with eventual cession from the banks to the Cassa deposits and loans, thanks to the guarantee of the State. This system, according to the Government, should have closed the question of the debts of the public administration. Let's do the math. Firstly, we stress that the resources come from the Letta and Monti governments, and then from the Renzi governments. These governments have allocated a total of 56.8 billion, but some 30 billion have arrived in the companies' coffers. Given that the Government, in order not to impact on the net debt, excludes the lot of the claims of capital part, i.e. the investments so much yearned for, and considering that these 56.8 billion do not represent the total of the credits boasted from the enterprises, as the said amount remains an illustrious unknown for obvious inability of the Government, the plafond made available by Cassa depositi e loani for the transactions of sale prosolato piles to only 10 billion, not therefore sufficient to close the gap between 56.8 and 30 billion. It would be necessary to accelerate the direct payment of the remaining 26.8 billion, which have bogged down at local government level after they have received liquidity advances or financial spaces under the Internal Stability Pact; many of these administrations, however, are central-left. Renzi should point out that the mechanism that places the Deposit and Loan Fund at the centre of this operation is likely to jam. First, therefore, 10 billion is not enough, and then the banks that serve the invoices of the certified credits are considering the operation with caution, also in view of the difficulties that the companies find in issuing the certifications from the public administrations. In addition, despite the state guarantee, the ceiling imposed at the discount (1.6% for payments over 50,000 euros and 1.9 percent up to 50,000 euros) makes intervention on small portfolios unattractive. So, once again, there are disadvantages for small businesses, and we wonder why Prime Minister Renzi, who said he was going to talk to the banks, doesn't do that too. We await, in any case, this week, the census that Padoan promised to unified networks, but that must not be limited to the 30 billion paid to creditors and certifications required by companies. It is in fact necessary - I am asking for this formally - to provide the data relating to the certifications actually issued by the individual public administrations, to those refused and to the reason for this refusal, in order to monitor also the efficiency of the public administration. We also know that this monitoring is at the heart of the Renzi Government. You probably wonder what the payment of public administration debts has to do with the state statement. Well, in a symbolic way many other examples could be used to demonstrate how much and how we are cast and how, even when trying to download the problems on the Deposit and Loan Fund, the margins of action are always contained. The Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, in turn, does not have unlimited resources; they derive 240 billion from the postal collection, the savings of the Italians, who have invested 100 billion in deposit books and 140 in good fruits (unless we want to put these also at risk, Mr. Deputy Minister). However, if next year we do not want to fall back on the frustration of re-reading a state statement that certifies an increase in public debt with negative repercussions on citizens, because public debt is the future taxes, and to make effective the monetary expansionary policy of the so-called unconventional ECB we must seriously reverse the course and adopt immediately an unconventional fiscal policy (the one adopted in the last twenty years by PD and Forza Italia) that instead reduces the tax pressure on households and companies in a meaningful way (and we speak of at least 7-8 points, not of some decimals). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How do you do that? First of all, by relocating public spending and by giving up billions of cuts in public spending in a very short time: children also know that cuts in unproductive spending take at least ten years and involve a step backwards on the part of politics in the public thing that we still do not see. In particular, to make spending efficient, time is needed to change the process of producing public goods and services. We must not continue with the policy of disposal of assets and public assets which, instead of reducing debt, has so far been used only to cover current expenditure. We must aim for the valorisation of public assets and, if we want to achieve this goal of debt reduction, it also takes at least ten years here to do things right. We must review the welfare system, introducing the income of citizenship and prevent all resources from going to large companies, always ready then to leave the country when there is nothing more to "mungere". A serious fight against evasion must be waged by attacking multinational corporations, organised crime and banks, which are among the biggest evaders. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the same way, those who want to be bankers must stop doing it exclusively in debt and must put money in their own pockets to capitalize on the banking system. We need an effective and efficient anti-corruption law that allows us to recover resources: we are the first in Europe to lose resources in bribes. We should make sure that we have a serious political class which, when it comes to the laws of stability, avoids the marc factory - as has been done last year by Parliament, which has generated almost a billion marcettes - and finally has the authority to make Europe understand that the system built through the treaties, such as the fiscal compact, only serves to decree the end of the European project. In order to do this - I said this - the process takes time and European constraints, which impose substantial primary surpluses, can only be achieved with the pressing of households and businesses, which, however, we are drying up, while only more unemployment has been produced, GDP contraction and the increase in public debt. This process must be speeded up. The Italian economy needs breath, air and then a net cut of tax rates to households and companies is indispensable, which, in the immediate future, could also cause a decrease in tax revenues, but that in the medium term, having the private sector the availability of more resources, would generate more investments, resulting in more employment and, therefore, increased demand for goods and services. The logic is changed and GDP growth is strongly focused, with the relative increase in tax revenues, without squeezing the citizens, but intervening on production. Europe and the ECB would have a fundamental role which should not be limited to merely giving flexibility to what is already provided for by European constraints and which, at best, would condemn us to the well-known 'zero comma', but should facilitate a real change of course. Europe should take note of the failure of austerity policy and the ECB would thus have the green light to protect sovereign debts, by buying directly government bonds, bypassing the banking system, which in recent years has preferred to use loans received from the ECB itself and has not put them into the real economy. At the same time, the only concern of the ECB should be to provide households and businesses with the necessary liquidity to make the business cycle virtuous. In order to do this, it cannot fail to see a strong constraint, which provides very heavy sanctions for the banking system, if this does not allocate the liquidity it is about to receive to the productive world. Finally, the adoption of eurobonds should not be postponed any further, which, unlike the redemption fund, guarantees all sovereign debt and not just part of it. This does not mean that States do not have to fulfil their commitments but, as stated in the Brussels Green Paper - not only by the 5 Star Movement - it would mean not giving space to speculations suggested by the humours of investors who impose economic policies on governments. If you don't put together a series of targeted actions, with these numbers and the "zero comma" we'll never get out of it. We've been saying this for a long time, and we've been here for a long time. Let us hope that we really will now change course: we have the European Semester that has been completely wasted by the announcements and the clowns. Set a remedy now! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u54	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u55	Madam President, Vice Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all the main economic indicators for 2014 are, unfortunately, worrying. The decrease in IRES revenues represents the tragic picture in which Italian companies move: turnover decreases, revenues and profits decrease and, consequently, the taxes that companies pay to the State. This is the result of the absolute lack of an industrial policy able to put our companies in a position to compete with the rest of the world. The reduction in VAT revenues represents a twofold picture of the increase in rates and the consequent decrease in consumption, which every increase in tax rates brings, unfortunately, with it. People have reduced their habits, given the persistent distrust in the future. It has even reduced spending on its vices, such as cigarettes, and has also lost hope of playing and, perhaps, winning the lottery, given that even in these budget items revenue has fallen. With the 2014 DEF, presented in April, the Renzi Government had adjusted its expenditure estimates for 2014, reducing it by 7.598 million compared to the 2014 Stability Act: it had risen from 816 to around 809 billion. The truth is that at the end of 2014, spending will probably be around 825 billion. Unfortunately, the draft law before us is not in a position to record this assessment; the precise estimate will be in the Update Note to the DEF, which we are waiting for in Parliament, but above all in the Stability Act and the Budget Act. It should therefore be stressed that, while it is true that the 2014 law of stability as well as the 2014 budget were approved by the Letta Government, it is equally true that the Renzi Government did not settle yesterday, but on 22 February: it is therefore largely responsible for the 2014 budget. In fact, President Renzi has already made a law of stability when it raised the level of the recourse to the market (which more properly should be done with the law of stability) authorizing by Decree No 66 of April the issue of public bonds for an additional €40 billion. These 40 billion were used, for about half, to pay the previous debts of the public administrations to the enterprises and, for the other half, to cover the new requirements. The Renzi Government has issued a series of spending decrees that have a typically socialist character, that is, the redistribution of existing wealth. The increase in taxes and tax burden, however, can only redistribute resources, not create new wealth. Thus, the revenue of those taxes that indicate an economic growth and increase taxes in order to cover the new expenditure is reduced. Just to give some examples: increase in TASI to 0.8 per thousand; tax on savings from 20 to 26 percent; withholding on pension fund yields from 11 to 11.5 percent; stamp of passport from 40.29 euro to 73.50 euros; increase of a pack of cigarettes of 10-20 cents; +500 per cent copyright for private copy on the purchase of smartphones and tablets (four euros for a smartphone with 16 giga di memoria). If we exclude the reduction of the IRAP rates - moreover, as indicated also by the technicians of the Senate, without an appropriate financial coverage - and the tax credit of 80 euros to 10 and a half million Italians - with a one-off financial coverage - all the rules introduced by the Renzi Government have resulted in a generalized increase of the taxes and a consequent increase of the public expenditure, in particular, we repeat it, of the current part expenditure, that is that part of the expenditure that before any other cut should fall under the mannaia of the spending review. Therefore, even the Keynesian recipe of the left to increase spending to grow the economy is completely frustrated if this expenditure is not used for investments, but it serves to pay ordinary spending. According to Confindustria's estimates, the actual tax burden for this year has increased to 52.8%, while the apparent tax burden - the DEF one - is still rising to 43.9%. However, the increase in taxes was not sufficient to cover the new expenditure. Finally, it must be understood that Italy's main problem is not the public debt, but above all the public deficit. Our deficit must be kept under control precisely because we have that mass of debt. For these reasons, our country is being asked to fall below 3% of the deficit-GDP ratio. The deficit correction will therefore be lower and we will also be able to benefit from less stringent criteria - 0.1 instead of 0.5%, as anticipated by Commissioner Katainen - and this will leave resources for the 2015 manoeuvre. Incidentally, it should be stressed that other European countries have higher indebtedness (e.g. France), but a lower debt stock than their GDP. In the light of these considerations, I think we should be very careful to consider the privatisation of public goods in the absence of a budget surplus forecast. It should be remembered that, after privatisations in the 1990s (a little more than EUR 120 billion), the public accounts, while noting a temporary reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio, then recorded an increase in expenditure. So, in our view, it is only by creating a surplus in the budget that the debt can be reduced. Given that there is a major primary surplus today, we must make sure that this figure is used to give confidence to the capital markets and further reduce the debt burden, i.e. the interest payments that exceed 82 billion per annum, which represent 5% of GDP, but above all 10% of total expenditure. And that is why it is very positive to record the reduction in interest expenditure of 3,899 million euros, due to the positive trend of the spread on the Bund, derived from the level of interest to be paid on the treasury bonds currently at historical minima. It should also be noted that this treasure was largely eroded by the increase in current expenditure of EUR 3.094 million. This is the most important fact that emerges from this law of settling the budget of the State and the budgets of the autonomous administrations for the financial year 2014. Public expenditure must be reduced, while market confidence helps us to reduce the burden on public debt, and if, on the one hand, we have to put hay in the farm, as is said on my part, that is, slowly reducing the debt, on the other, as we are saying now too often, we have to work, without wasting any more time, to make investments, innovation and job creation easier fiscally, that is, our companies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u57	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I will make a few comments on the general accounts and the budgetary adjustment. My speech on the first document will consider the recent data from ISTAT drawn up on the basis of the revision of the calculation system according to European indications. For 2013, gross domestic product at market prices was 1,560 billion, with a decrease of 0,4%. In volume the decrease was 1.9. This figure, unfortunately very negative, is however confirmed by the data of Istat also on the basis of the new recalculation. Interestingly, the ratio of net debt to GDP is shown in the balance sheet at 3%, while respecting the parameters. According to Istat's recalculations, this ratio increases to 2.8 percent. This will give us a little more room for manoeuvre. The primary balance in relation to GDP fell by 2.2%. Another point to highlight is the slight, as described in our report, decrease in the overall tax burden recorded in 2013, which was 43.8%. This slight decrease has increased further in the new ISTAT statistics to 43.3%. The figure has therefore improved considerably. In the dynamics of expenditure on individual items, labour income expenditure is still falling by 0.7%, as are those on intermediate goods and consumption. Another positive figure is social benefits where there is a certain growth rate compared to 2012 with 2.7%, after an increase of 2.3% in that year. One positive element, highlighted in the various interventions, is that of interest payable, decreased by 5.1 percent compared to 2012, compared to a 10.3 percent increase compared to 2011. Another important aspect is that of income and social benefits, which increased by 5% after a fall of 0.8% in 2012. So, even within a complex and difficult overall picture, there are elements of positivity. As regards the economic analysis of final expenditure, it should be noted that current expenditure increased by 4.4%, while capital expenditure increased by 55.9%. One aspect that should be studied in detail is that of current transfers to the public administration. I deal with local authorities and local administrations, but this is seen as an increase in transfers. Therefore, despite a climate of great difficulty for the local authorities, highlighted also in previous interventions, it should be pointed out that there has been an overall increase in transfers. It is also worth noting the significant increase in gross fixed capital formation, which has increased by about 30%. Also with regard to waste management (the budget manager knows that this is always a sore point), the residue account in relation to the values set out on 1 January 2013 (i.e. in relation to the results relating to the management of previous years) has an active surplus. With regard to newly formed residues, the 2013 financial year produced active residues of 95,000 million euros and liabilities of only 58,000 million euros, with an active surplus of about 37,000 million euros. With this I close the part on the general statement, saying that, although in a context of difficulties, some positive aspects must be emphasized. As for - instead - the adjustment of the state budget, many of the previous interventions have emphasized the aspects of criticality. It is true: the net balance to be financed shows a negative change, equal, on the whole, to about 3,200 million resulting from a worsening of administrative acts, but an improvement of 600 million associated with the proposals of the adjustment. Of these, the explanatory report specifies that some 2,800 million derive from the application of the European Stability Mechanism financed by the issuance of government debt securities. However, the proposed adjustment, on the other hand, results in a reduction in final expenditure entirely attributable to the reduction in interest expenditure due to the trend in interest rates in the first part of the year, as many have pointed out. As far as final revenue is concerned, the bill proposes a reduction of around 2,000 million, as a result of a reduction in tax revenue and an increase in extra-tributary revenue. The previous speech by Mr Mandelli also highlighted this aspect. I'd like to try to see it in a positive way, at least for some parts. It is clear that the decreases in IRES and VAT are linked to the moment of crisis that our economy is going through and, therefore, to the contraction of what can be tax revenues. A positive aspect that should be highlighted by all those who fired zero on revenue and games at Christmas is the decreases in the tax on games for 241 million, as well as those on lotteries for 128 million euros. I believe that if we take advantage of this and little at a time were to be reduced, we could probably also tackle the problem of reducing total revenue from games in the framework of the regulation of the other instruments that we are currently introducing with the tax delegation. I would also like to make a request to the Government: I would remind you that the settlement decree, when updating the budget forecasts, should also take into account the evolution of the macroeconomic framework of the year, in particular during the period since the adoption of the budgetary law, as well as the development of the revenue from the period considered by the adjustment. In this respect, it is stressed in the technical reports that the measure under consideration has not been accompanied by an update of the values of public finance indicators: perhaps the reply can be an opportunity to provide some data. With regard to public savings, the proposed changes with the adjustment result in a value of over 14 billion, which represents a slight improvement on the 2014 budget forecasts. Data on market use show overall the positive impact on the balance of more than 10 million. In fact, the changes proposed by the adjustment represent an improvement of about 14 billion, while the administrative acts have led to a deterioration of 4 billion. I am beginning to conclude by stressing one positive aspect: in Article 3, in a year still of great difficulty, in the field of education and university, there is a significant increase in funds for educational projects in museums and sites of archaeological, historical and cultural interest, aimed at the continuous training of teachers in the school and at the conscious use of cultural heritage by students. In relation to this, expenditure of EUR 3 million has been authorised. Therefore, although in a very difficult context, for all that has been said, I believe that the PD Group can anticipate the vote in favour of the bill of account and the provisions for the settlement. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u58	I declare the joint general debate closed and I refer the continuation of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u61	WOMAN (M5S). "Feeding the Planet": here is the slogan recited for one of the worst pages of business and the shady maneuvers of the Tangentopoli of the Italian Republic's 2.0 era, Expo 2015. On March 15 of this year we made a check in the area of the so blazed work of relaunching the Italian economy, in order to denounce what was really hidden under the Expo. The result, amazing and predictable, was the observation of a huge urban speculation that plays the role of an international event to nourish the Planet. The coated, eco-sustainable and supportive image of the great event, in fact, conceals aspects much more coherent than the slogans flaunted by the professionals. This operation is unclear and surrounded by a dubious conduct of legality, resulting in the excellent arrests that we have helped to bring out. It is deduced that feeding the Planet was and still is an ambiguous way to consolidate an operation of bribe set up in Lombardy, that is to nourish the pockets of the usual known. What is even more disgusting and gruesome is undoubtedly the news that Nestlé, through its Italian branch, Sanpellegrino, has won the contest banned to manage the thematic square in the Italian pavilion. The Swiss multinational is therefore given a space of about 100 square meters to sell exclusively its mineral waters in exchange for exorbitant figures (and I'm talking about 950,000 euros). In 2012, in fact, the Swiss Parliament approved a loan of 23 million Swiss francs for the participation in Expo 2015, an operation that grants an important space through its national sponsors (Nestlé, Swiss Saline, Geberit and Vacheron Constantin). Expo's official water is not a common good, nor is it treated as such, but it is a mineral water bottled by a multinational like Nestlé. The City of Milan, one of the members of Expo Spa, promoted the logo "Milano Blu": the brand that should have made the tap water even more recognizable. The classic Italian paradox or the umpteenth marchetta to be granted to the giants? And all in spite of the voice of the citizens, of the slave people, who in the popular consultation of June 2011 with 54 percent of voters voted against the privatization of the water system. Other than nourishing the Planet: here it is only the multinationals, always to the detriment of the citizens, who try to move forward and recover, and hope in a future that appears more and more a mirage. That's the truth! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u64	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, the speech I am about to make concerns the written question 4-02564, which I tabled to Mr Lupi, signed by myself and Senator Minzolini, published on 29 July at sitting No 294. This is an important question on the serious isolation of Liguria, and we care very much about it. The Minister, after having on several occasions guaranteed a strong acceleration regarding the various problems relative to the infrastructures that connect the Liguria with the Italy North and France, has issued particularly worrying statements on a work that has decisive reflections, is on the harbour system that on the Ligurian tourist one of the Country. Since it has been two months now and I have not received any written reply to the question, I would ask you, Madam President, to ask the Ministry for an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u65	The Presidency will certainly take action in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u68	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, immigration and landings are no longer news, even if they happen on a daily basis. Even the tragedies of the sea leave indifferent. The last one was last Sunday. The mayors find themselves unaware of the so-called refugees, without warning, by the prefect. Well, we North League Group want to know, in order to Mare nostrum, the costs and the rules of engagement; in relation to the reception, the costs, the numbers of the welcomed, the spontaneous departures; in relation to the health risks, we want to know whether our law enforcement, our police forces and our volunteers are safe or not. And we want to know what the prevention measures are. Even with regard to the dead and the missing, we want to know the numbers. That is why our Group has tabled several parliamentary questions, the first of which date back over six months ago. That is why we believe that the Ministers who have been asked should give answers to these questions. I quote three, those who also see my name as the underwriter. The first, published on 20 March 2014, is the 4-201905, the second, of 27 March 2014, is the 4-201956, and finally the last, of 1 July 2014, is the 4-02407 We believe that, for the sake of clarity, a transparency operation is necessary, which can only start with the answers to these questions, which are not the only ones. Others have been presented by my colleagues, who will ask for answers in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u69	The Presidency will certainly be responsible for requesting the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u72	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, today we have remembered the tragedy of Adria, where four workers died and one was seriously injured. It was necessary, because this really is a priority for the country. It is not permissible to die again because of a toxic cloud and because we are exposed to chemical fumes without mask protection. We cannot think of a fatality: this is what the public prosecutor Sabrina Duò said. None of the four victims had any protective equipment and the first analysis would reveal a resounding violation of the procedures. A tank delivered 280 quintals of sulphuric acid, dangerous and reactive, which had to be stored in the special silos. It would show that it was spilled directly into the large tank that contained the sewage to be decompose. The chemical reaction was massive; without masks and breaths neither the first worker nor rescuers had escape. I cannot think that a worker consciously accepts such risks; nor that an employer imposes them. That would be monstrous. If responsibility arises, the judiciary will verify it. Today I am struck by the behavior of those who, seeing the internal cameras, without assessing the risk, rushed to rescue without protection. Is this an unconscious and unconscious action or an act of heroism? To respond, we need to know what training and training the workers have received. For twenty years Co.Im.Po di Cà Emo has been treating sludge and sewage that derive from civil and industrial purification to transform them into soil improvers for agriculture. Mayor Barbujani said: We've never had any problems with Co.Im.Po, smells apart. We are faced with a highly technological company and with a huge tragedy, caused by a series of unimaginable concauses. Politics cannot continue to talk about fatality. A company, especially if highly technological, cannot afford such flaws in the production cycle and in the field of safety at work. The Veneto for Governor Zaia is a safe region, but in 2011 it produced 14.7 million tons of toxic waste; there are five incinerators dedicated to special (even hazardous) waste. The Veneto must have a system of checks and capillaries and instead is dismantling the agency ARPAV. It is not enough to impose adequate safety plans and equipment on entrepreneurs; it is necessary to stimulate and verify the training and training of staff, with field simulations, so that staff can understand the nature of the risk and act automatically in the appropriate way in similar situations. Otherwise we present ourselves at the funerals, but we have a responsibility that should instead suggest that we stay at home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u75	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as I often do, I use the end-of-session minutes to bring the voices of the citizens. Also this time I bring the voice of the high vastise, the inner part of my municipality, and I speak of broadband. I am referring to an area which has already been severely depressed from the social and economic point of view, marginalized and forgotten by the institutions. Of course the implementation of broadband has too high costs: geomorphological conditions are very difficult; excessive population dispersion and demographic decline are the main obstacles to the spread of broadband in a uniform way on this territory and in other similar Italian territories. It should be remembered, however, that the dissemination of these information and communication technologies plays a key role in improving the competitiveness of the agricultural, forestry, but also tourism and food and wine sectors, as the only instrument capable of developing and maintaining economic growth, determining a better quality of life for that population and therefore giving it those services essential to avoid, as much as possible, the main cause of abandonment of these rural territories. I know that the Abruzzo Region has joined the National Broadband Plan, coordinated by the Ministry of Economic Development. These areas are defined as white areas, i.e. as total or partial market failure. It is a draft national notification of the aid, where broadband services for businesses and citizens do not exist, or are insufficient, or the network has an insufficient connection to download quickly. But in these areas strangely there have already been fiber poses by Infratel Italia, a company in house of the Ministry of Economic Development, subject of the national plan for broadband implementation. I have just one example: in the municipality of Schiavi d'Abruzzo, the highest in my territory, the laying of these fibres has been completed for several years, but the former monopolist Telecom has not yet entered the telephone station - the online stadium - for the connection and the covers are not even scheduled in 2014. So nothing. Therefore, in the absence of these actions of the former monopolist Telecom, the only one to be able to intervene is the State, the Ministry of Economic Development. I hope that the voice of these citizens, through the Senate, will reach the competent bodies to limit the waiting time as much as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-315.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 24 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
