ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general debate continued during yesterday's afternoon sitting. Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u9	Madam President, distinguished colleagues, citizens who are following us, I quote "Il Sole 24 Ore" of 15 February: A suicide every two and a half days. A total of 149 people took their lives for economic reasons in 2013, compared with 89 cases in 2012 (...). About one in two suicides (45.6 percent) is entrepreneur (68 cases in 2013, 49 in 2012) but, compared to 2012, the number of victims among the unemployed increases: 58, in fact, the suicides among the unemployed, number which is more than doubled compared to 2012 in 2012. Is there anything else you need to add? Go back then a few months and ask yourself what were the reforms that the country urgently awaited, and remember what were the priorities set by the 5 Star Movement: above all, support for income and the revival of domestic consumption; give oxygen to Italian families and, at the same time, to Italian companies that produce for the internal market; give dignity to our young people, the unemployed, the housewives and the exodus through that income of citizenship that in Europe lacks only to them. We needed a plan for companies and, therefore, the abolition of the IRAP that chokes investment and recruitment; interventions for access to credit, a real simplification and not the imposition of the POS. This government came to the mockery: first it imposed e-invoicing on public administration providers and then, when companies spent thousands of euros on software, a circular from the Ministry for Simplification and Public Administration (Minister Madia), declared that they did not adhere to the new billing system. In Europe it was necessary to question this overrated euro, which penalises our exports, and the absurd treaties such as the fiscal compact, which choke our chances of recovery. We needed decisive cuts in unnecessary spending and waste: therefore, the abolition of the Provinces, but for real, not that prestigious game made by the Government that only changed its name to the bodies. Therefore, the abandonment of useless infrastructure works such as the Expo, the TAV and probably also the MOSE was necessary, because in Venice the truth is still to be restored. We had proposed a widespread and sustainable Expo from an economic, urban and environmental point of view; a plan drawn up by Professor Battisti of the Polytechnic, which went to retrain many sites already existing, bringing visitors directly to the places to be promoted and not as they are doing now, cementing a periphery and speculating on agricultural land, almost ridiculing the very theme of the EXPO: "nourishing the planet". You have said no, always no, to all our proposals, to all our amendments and, when good ideas are rejected for the benefit of senseless projects, we know where to look: in the networks between politics and lobbying, in the plundering of administrations by parties, powers that are stronger and more hidden where the control of citizens is weakened. On the other hand, citizens need more power, transparency, the right of access to acts, preference voting, instruments of direct democracy, such as popular initiative laws, propositive and advisory referendums. Renzi, on the contrary, proposed warm cloths as an anti-corruption authority, late and ineffective. The law provides that the members are people of notorious independence: instead he has elected friends of the PDL as Angela Nicotra, candidate for the Senate and trumpeted, but first fished as wise on the reforms and now, with Canton, to make the fig leaf in the fight against corruption in Italy. But you, meanwhile, have reduced the penalties for the political-mafia exchange vote. They are hot cloths, therefore, like the jobs act, which will not bring a single new job, but rather turn fixed places into precarious places. These are words, announcements, prestigious games. Take a speech from Renzi and listen to him sometime; do it and you will have a surprise, because Renzi himself knows well that, weighing his words, only the packaging remains. Now, like an athlete who missed the first jump, Matteo Renzi raised the bar and postponed the final failure. He needed a theme of mass distraction and found institutional reforms: brilliant! He took two of our battle horses, the abolition of the Provinces and the reduction of the costs of politics, and turned them into Trojan horses to deceive the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the Provinces, he just changed his name. You will have heard in these months a beaten and rebuffed concept: large area entities; they are the Provinces. Renzi and Delrio eliminated the elections, transforming the elected bodies into boards of directors and put them under the control of the parties. He strengthened the caste, pretending to oppose it. Congratulations! For weeks our bill for the real abolition of the Provinces has been declared urgent, with almost unanimous vote of this Assembly; immediately after it was closed in the cellar and threw the key, and under with the Senate! The new senators, with the Renzi reform, will be mayors or regional councillors who will elect among themselves. The excuse was to save money: but what do you save? Some papable senators have already made it known that even the dog doesn't wear a free tail. Many political forces have already tabled amendments to reinstate the allowance. They have been carefully withdrawn to bring them back to the Chamber and, you will see, sooner or later they will come out of the den: with the government they will find a way. Maybe they'll take off immunity, no, sorry, they've put it back. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] .. they will remove the allowance and have in exchange lump sums and nabbies. If Renzi really wanted to reduce the costs of politics, he would have accepted our proposals to halve the 320 senators and even the 630 Members and to reduce salaries; then he would have saved himself! If Renzi really wanted to simplify the parliamentary work, he would have accepted our proposals to work five days: today we arrive on Tuesday afternoon and finish on Thursday afternoon; not all of us: we arrive on Mondays and we leave on Fridays and we cut our wages by half. But that's not what Renzi was trying to do, even the children know it. The goal is to shoot a new political force: today the 5 Star Movement, tomorrow any alternative project to the current Forza Italia and the current Democratic Party. In the House, what they consider an annoyance - pluralism - they try to suppress it with electoral law, designed in the privé, tête-à-tête with Berlusconi, setting absolutely variable thresholds (4.5 percent in coalition, 8 percent for those who show up alone, 12 percent for coalitions, 37 percent to avoid balloting). They simply marked the herd and reported internal opponents in the two enclosures. It's an artificial bipartitism: a right and a left that will fakely oppose each other, like the two sides of the same fake banknote... 80 heures. Small and medium-sized parties will be obliged to ally themselves by force; then, once they have arrived in Parliament, free everyone and a sound ring to the governability. Mastella's paradise! With the ballot, however, they leave a door open: what if the 5 Star Movement, today the second political force leaving the Europeans, went to the ballot and won it? What if he wants to take that balance out of the Constitution? Few European states have inserted it, we Italians have been hasty and strangely fast... who knows why. If the 5 Star Movement wanted to restore health to the exclusive competences of the State? The Regions have failed, on health care in Lombardy and Veneto have been created systems of bribes, beginning with the Pio Albergo Trivulzio, up to the recent scandals or chasms of public debt, as in the case of the Hospital of the Angel of Mestre, built in project finance, which now renders to the private as it costs more to the citizens. What if the 5 Star Movement wanted to question the patron treaties signed with Europe by amending the Constitution? Never! It is necessary for the Senate, at least that, to remain firmly in the hands of those who have guaranteed certain affairs so far and can give guarantees in the future. Here, then, is the solution: the Senate no longer elects the citizens, but the parties; the senators will be mayors, one by Region, and regional councillors, who elect among themselves. The result is amazing. How many voters does the Five Star Movement have? We round up for excess: 20 percent. How many Regions do you have a majority in the Regional Council? Zero. If the councilors vote, the 5 Star Movement will have at most a couple of senators: deal made, and this sounds of warning to all those political forces, present and future, who had claimed to break the eggs in the basket of the caste. I warn viewers citizens that I am not expressing personal opinions, but I am just putting myself in Matteo Renzi's shoes to try to understand his obscure reasons. If the meetings with Berlusconi took place in the light of day, maybe it would help. But let's get back to Renzi's plans. A Senate of mayors and advisors opens up a problem. The mayors only have executive power, not legislative power. What about the separation of powers at the stage of our democracy? Regional councillors were not elected to be senators, nor to vote for future senators. How do we give them this mandate retroactively? And how can we get people to accept all this? The first step is to delegitimize criticism: those who oppose it are labeled as 'frenator'. Beautiful this word, it reminds me of Vulvia, the presenter of RAI educational channel, impersonated by Corrado Guzzanti. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Bulgarelli's laughter.]] Here, those who oppose will be labeled as riders' rider's rider. [[Senator Bulgarelli's laughter]] , with the punctual megaphone of the entire press of the state disinformation perpetuated by the RAI. I forgive my colleagues Corsini, Tocci and those like them who kept their back straight; their action is serious, as serious and unmotivated is the ostracism they have suffered. It is not they who betrayed a mandate but Matteo Renzi [[Applause from Senators Maurizio Romani and Simeoni]] The dissident is Matteo Renzi, who is betraying the very history of a party that had its roots in Catholic and Labour tradition. Today Matteo Renzi sinks his knife, covered by a print too often distracted or worse entangled. The press that the 5 Star Movement wants more free, without public funding, with a law on conflict of interest that the Government, not by chance, continues to ignore. They will tell you that for freedom of the press we have actually recovered: it is true, we are in 49th place, in pursuit of Romania, Haiti, Niger. The problem does not seem to be public opinion at the moment, because there is another problem, the Constitutional Court. We have just seen the shock that the Court has brought into the political scenario by rejecting the Porcellum. For an unscrupulous government the Court is a sword of Damocles; then they did better by reducing the number of senators... [[Undersecretary Scalfarotto moves away from the benches of the government. Comments of the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM M5S BANKS. You can stop. Well, the government will see it streaming. Out of respect for the citizens I continue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government is present in the Chamber. Go ahead with the surgery. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Do we have the government in absentia? Ah, here he is, on the stand of the Presidency. I was looking instead at the canonical place. [[Laughter.]] If the problem is the Constitutional Court, this reform finds the escamotage and reduces the number of senators to 100, indeed to 95, because five would have them appointed by the President of the Republic, who would therefore have his personal departure. These senators for life... Sorry, the heirs of the senators for life will last seven years, just the time to vote in turn for the future president. With this formula and these numbers the circle shrinks and the Senate will be controlled by a single party. It means that, from now on, a single party will have the power to control the changes to the Constitution. On the other hand, the Senate will be almost irrelevant to electing the President of the Republic and the guarantee bodies. With Italicum, the electoral law dealt with Berlusconi, Renzi secured the absolute majority of 630 MPs. When Parliament meets together, the vote of the 100 senators becomes negligible. Thus we will have a President of the Council who will choose a third of the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and a third of the Constitutional Court, then choose the new President of the Republic, who will appoint another third of the Constitutional Court, so his decrees will pass smoothly. Finally, as a icing on the cake, he will also have the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate and, if the President of the Republic gets sick, he will also check the alternates. I have a very clear picture in mind: Napoleon who takes the crown from the hands of the Pope and puts it on his own. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm not saying they do it on purpose, but do they realize that this formula of Senate of the Republic is equal the one devised by Licio Gelli in the mid-seventies? Nothing that Berlusconi's P2 card was then authentic and that Renzi with occult powers perhaps has no embarrassment to deal with? Now perhaps we must ask ourselves a sincere question and give ourselves an honest answer: but what do we do with democracy? What are we going to do with citizen participation? After all, we are a country that has grown with private initiative, a blessed and widespread entrepreneurship, which has generated a great economic boost, well-being and also cultural advancement, civil rights, health, school, social security. Remember Enzo Jannacci and the song titled "The Bonzo"? Look for it on the Internet: it's easy. It was inspired by the Vietnamese Buddhist monk who fired on August 8, 1969 in protest against the American invasion and the tragedy of Marcinelle, where 263 miners, mostly Italian, died in a mine in 1956. The chorus recited: "I have a car, I have a nice job and I do not miner, I have a mutual, I have a house on the third floor (...), what interests me about my freedom. (...) Freedom de lavura. (...) He will work for pudè campa . This well-being is in danger today. Because let's remember: entrepreneurship works, when the rules work and no one coffins, otherwise there are no longer even the conditions to do it for themselves. The 'ndrangheta has become the first builder in Italy, the gangsters have infiltrated into legal gambling, because the political level has allowed it to happen, because competent magistrates have been removed or forced to leave and the investigations covered up. That's what getting your hands on the Supreme Council of the judiciary is for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] MOSE contracts, EUR 6 billion so far, have been driven by political corruption, which costs us 60 billion a year.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u10	I invite you to conclude, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u11	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm finishing. Thank you, Madam President. The Government now offers contradictory solutions: it establishes a Chamber of Territorial Institutions, but it takes away powers from the Regions, so the decisions will depart from the territory, to the face of the principle of decentralisation and subsidiarity. It is not the Regions that have failed the task: the responsibility is of the parties, who have plotted almost every area of public administration, every competition, every contract. A great machine of consent and money. If Renzi wanted to do an institutional reform that would serve the economy, he would have had to reform the parties, not provide them with guaranteed public funding. That's what we do with democracy. That is why we need transparency and instruments of direct democracy. Countries that have evolved instruments of direct democracy, for example Switzerland or the United States, are not only more civilized: they are also richer. They're richer! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude because the 20 minutes have passed. ENDRIZZI (M5S). They have a greater well-being, because the citizen participates, that is, takes part, his share of power. Otherwise, what Jannacci denounced happens. In 1969 a Buddhist monk was set on fire, today taking their own lives are entrepreneurs and workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u13	Mr President, I think we should all ask ourselves the reasons for this reform debate on Part II of the Constitution. The reasons are not only - as someone believes - in the Nazarene covenant, as if it were an agreement of power or convenience. For us in Forza Italia and for President Berlusconi, the Nazarene Pact is one of the stages that have marked the life of our Group. Yesterday President Casini recalled the aborted reforms in the bicamerals, but he forgot to say that in 2005 this Parliament approved a constitutional reform - at the time there was an absolute majority of the House of Liberties - and, again, that in 2012 the Senate House, which saw an absolute majority of the People of Liberty, approved a constitutional reform, starting from the elimination of bicameralism equal, what represents our DNA. The elimination of equal bicameralism takes place not because we are opposed by party taken or because we believe it was a wrong choice at the time of the constituent Assembly. The choice was right: Parliament represented, in the constitutional design of that Assembly, the centrality of power and there was the need to balance it with the other functions, starting with the President of the Republic until reaching the judiciary, establishing which were the counterweights. Then why amend the Constitution? In the long history of this Senate - nobody has remembered it - I believe the very high function carried out, also in recent times (I do not have to remember here the last laws, starting from that on the feminicide), from the bicameralism in order to the necessity of correction of the normative texts. I must then thank the rapporteurs. It is not a formal thank you, Senator Finocchiaro, but a real thank you because compared to the text of the Government the one that came out of the Commission is different. One of the reasons for the criticism of this reform is that the Government wanted to name the proposal to itself; it had never happened, it had to be a Parliament, as always, to deal with constitutional reform, and I will explain why it was not possible for it to be the Government. So thank you to the rapporteurs. I thank them because the text issued by the Commission improves the path of the legislative process, which the Renzi Government, as Senator Finocchiaro will recall, had copied from the bill voted here in 2012, transforming a Senate vote into an opinion. Thanks to the rapporteurs, I have also received an amendment concerning the functions of this branch of Parliament, which is no longer just a revision of the Constitution but a collective decision, together with the House of Members, on the European Treaties and Article 117 of the Constitutional Charter, on the functions and electoral systems of local authorities. I must say again thanks to the rapporteurs, because they have added a further piece, that of a further collective vote with the House, in relation to the Regions with ordinary statutes, should they want to establish seats of the judge of peace. This is a novelty compared to the current discipline that concerns only the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. But I must also say that I do not share the text in terms of guarantees and contradiction with the first article of the Constitution: sovereignty, Senator Finocchiaro, belongs to the people and I am always in favour of everything that guarantees the participation of citizens not only in the management of public affairs, but in the formation of laws. Therefore, I cannot accept a popular initiative with 250,000 signatures. At the end of the 1960s I collected the signatures, Madam President, for the direct election of the European Parliament. We imagined another European Parliament and if then we had to reach the threshold of 250,000 signatures, we probably would never have reached them. So I ask myself: do we want to take citizens further away from politics? It's a reflection, it's not a criticism. You see, Madam President, I have been living this experience badly these days for some reasons. I have already said before how inconsistent the presentation of the measure by the Government is and how this has distorted both the debate and the observation by the press. First of all, we have had a total absence of civil society, constitutionalists and critics in this debate. The debate took place within the parliamentary groups and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We must involve the people and to involve them we need someone among us to start rewriting and establishing some rules: ethical rules that are pre-political. I have heard these days about Group discipline: we are insane. It's a constitutional matter. I say this not because there is Article 67 of the Constitution that guarantees me the possibility of expressing my opinions freely, without any mandate, because that concerns ordinary laws. By constitutional law each of us is involved in the constituent process and the latter - read the minutes of the constituent assembly - has seen a broad participation and diversified positions within each group. Thank God I'm part of a group where this discipline doesn't exist. To President Paolo Romani I must say thank you for allowing Senator Minzolini to participate in all the meetings of the Commission, despite voting against the positions expressed by the Forza Italia Group itself. I have said that some of my amendments have also been accepted. The whole of the legislation has changed and then I have not retabled an amendment that provided for the abolition of the Senate and that I had proposed with respect to the initial text of the Government that was of institutional incorrectness, not to mention constitutional incorrectness. In the face of this new text, I have already prepared three times an amendment on the composition of the Senate and in the end I have retabled only one amendment for the House on this very issue. However, in order to be consistent with what I said earlier, I tabled that amendment - but I withdraw it - because it must allow the rapporteurs and the government to reason further. In fact, the Senate as it came out of the Commission is different from what the government had imagined. The government had imagined a post-work of mayors coming here, I don't know, probably once a week or a month. And instead, what is the reality? Take a good look at the new law! If I were to be a member of that Senate - but I will not be a member of it because I will never be a regional councillor - I think I would be able to argue that that Senate will probably have to be here every day of the week for the whole month. In fact, have you read how the times are timed? Within ten days the senators must read the laws passed by the House (and it takes time to read a law), then, within ten days, a third of the Senate (so 33 people) should vote to examine that text and finally, in thirty days, the amendment should be approved. Do you realize that senators would always be here? Then I can't understand. There is no Minister Boschi and not even President Renzi, but I would like to understand: when Minister Boschi says you can make changes but you have to save the plant, what does that mean? I still don't get it! What do you mean, "save the plant"? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Candiani]] Does the plant mean maintaining non-electivity? But with what we have to do? But have they looked at what happens in other countries? They tell me that in other countries there is the possibility of indirect election. Yes, but indirect election also means that the chosen person does not do another job, he is a senator! What's the point, then? That is why I have tabled an amendment and I am addressing President Finocchiaro: that amendment, which I withdraw, is an invitation. We do not finish this week; we do not start voting. Make an effort, you and Senator Calderoli, with the government, to reason. In that amendment I foresee 42 members elected by the Regions, with a vote limited to two for each Region, and 110 elected by the people. And it is not an invention: go and read the work of the constituent Assembly. The Commission rejects all the proposals, but approves only one proposal by a large majority: that the Senate for two thirds is representative of direct electivity. Why two-thirds? Because even then we were talking about the need for local, territorial and regional representation. So, when Minister Boschi tells me to save the plant, what does that mean? I would like to be explained by the Government, since it wanted to demand this legislative initiative that it was not up to it. You have to explain to me why the Regional Councillor or the mayor, at the same time, is also a senator. And then I feel like I'm giving crazy explanations. A first explanation is that this Senate should not work very well. For what came out of the Commission, this is not the case and I am pleased to have read an article on "The Corriere della Sera" which confirms my diagnosis of a strong presence of the Senate and a strong capacity to speak in the legislative process. Then what's the reason? I'm told it's because the senator doesn't have to have any allowances. I want to forget the misery of reading what has been said about these remarks. I am neither an owl, nor am I a critic for reasons of camarille. I have never participated, in my life, in a group of dissidents or in a majority group: I believe in the ability to clash and confront in this House, and that is the reason why we are senators. Either we have the ability to dialogue and confront each other or it is better not to be senators, if we have to collect signatures to reason in some way or another! Then what allowance? Perhaps President Renzi ignored what had happened in the last parliamentary term. He welcomed the Commission's approval as a great success, as it was the only time it happened: but when? In 2012 the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously, with a general consensus, came to approve the constitutional reform and it was our fault if it did not become effective, because we included an amendment on presidentialism in the Chamber that prevented the Democratic Party from voting on it. That is the reality. So, Mr President-in-Office, do not talk to me about defending the allowance. I gave up, for a matter of principle, the compensation of Vice-President of the Commission for the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and so, again for a matter of principle, I gave up 72,000 euros, having only the salary of magistrate until March 2010. And you're gonna talk to me about allowance! But will these new senators (whoever they are) be entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses and daily subsistence expenses in Rome? Do we want to eliminate the allowance and provide for a token of presence, so - perhaps - we will have the presence of everyone? I agree perfectly, but I don't see what this has to do with anything. I do not choose the logic of the composition of the Senate according to the compensation, because it is a policy as a merchant, by those who are accustomed to treating constitutional rules as if they were rules to be imposed on those who are its adherents. I also read yesterday in the press that President Berlusconi spoke of an obligation. I have never had any indication, in the five years I have been a member of the Senate, of Group discipline on matters relating to the Constitution or the laws. If anyone had asked me to act for Group discipline, I would have left the Forza Italia Group. It's not like that. You don't think that way. We do not claim the exclusion from the Commissions of those who have expressed an opinion against it, because by this rule we betray the same reason to be, not only of the Senate, but of our activity! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]] I have tabled that amendment, Mr Sfafe Secretary, because you tell Mr Boschi that he has a problem. Having come out of the Commission a different Senate, further reflection is needed. It is also necessary to ensure a balance between the House and the Senate. I've reached 157 members. Otherwise, the number of Members must be reduced. I see the effort with regard to guarantees: one third of the constitutional judges will be elected by the Senate. But what guarantees do we have on the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and on the President of the Republic? I don't have to teach you that these are guarantee institutions. And why are you in such a hurry? Our constituents are still a model in Europe and worldwide. I want to remind you, for those who did not remember it, that the judiciary, in the constitutional design, was organized on the Napoleonic model. We become magistrates for competition. Therefore, a public employment relationship is established. And in order to prevent any attack on the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, the Supreme Council of the judiciary was set up: but when did this happen? After several days and various sessions, through various solutions. And I've put forward various solutions on the composition of the Senate, too. There is no ability to stand up against the fact that we do not govern these issues and this debate with the haste and the need to arrive. But what is the need, Madam President? If President Renzi is truthful, then I am serene. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]] In the sense that, if he has assured me that the legislature will last until 2018, I cannot understand the rush of a constitutional reform that will have to be implemented in four years' time. At least let us give the possibility of further reflection on what are the fundamental rules of our future life. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and the Senators Chiti and Silvestro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u14	We greet the members of the social cooperative society "Albanova" of Corigliano d'Otranto (Lecce) present in the gallery. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u15	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of the Northern League for almost twenty years, and we have struggled with many friends to achieve an objective. Indeed, it is better to define the objective, defined by the first article of our statute: the North League aims at the independence of Padania. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For over twenty years in our territory, the North League has been the spokesperson for the discontent of our people towards a centralist and wasteful management.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u17	Senator, excuse me. I would ask, please, the senators who are legitimately complimenting Senator Caliendo, to allow the senator to make her speech calmly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u18	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Today we are here to discuss a constitutional reform that, in the initial intentions of this Government, wanted to strip the Regions of their fundamental legislative autonomy, closing that door that we have been difficult to open: that of federalism. Fortunately, with an amendment by the rapporteurs, Mr Calderoli and Mr Finocchiaro, which is fundamental to us in the League and without which the continuation of the reforms for us would not have found any way, the initial text has been amended in the Commission and in the version we are debating today, special forms of autonomy are maintained for the regions, provided that they are in a position of financial balance between revenue and expenditure. It seems paradoxical that after years in which the different political orientations have been directed against a centralization of the state power, in favour of a autonomy and a responsibility of the Regions, the Renzi Government has conceived a reform of the Constitution that declassified, in fact, the Regions to simple administrative bodies. However, the government cannot take into account the fact that the autonomy of the Regions must be the basis of all political choices, because the citizens want this. I am a Venetian and our hymn says "semo un popolo, na nasion" and we never give up. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We continue to struggle and believe that our identity must be recognized. Many times they have defined us as "subversive" and "warsome"; they have told us that we wanted to divide Italy, even with weapons, for the sole purpose of instilling fear among people, because it is well known that when people are afraid it is easily manageable. We Venetians are none of this; we are a very laborious people, respectful of the laws and, in the toughest moments, we have always rolled up our sleeves, to do and not to undo. We continued our battle for the independence of Veneto, not by rifle shots, but by signature shots: as many as 100,000 signatures that allowed us to support in the Venetian Regional Council the request to be able to hold a referendum for independence and, finally, thanks to 30 votes for and 14 against, we can make the Venetian people say if they want to continue to be maneuvered by Rome or if they want to be finally independent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am not here to question the political affiliation of those 14 votes against the referendum, otherwise I would be against the majority of this House, but I welcomed the statement of 7 July by the Minister for Regional Affairs, Maria Carmela Lanzetta, when in Preganziol, a beautiful country in Treviso, to the question on what was her position on the referendum for the independence of Veneto said that when it is completed with the final proposal, it will be assessed with the utmost seriousness by the legislative offices of the Ministry. I very much hope that the expression "will be evaluated with the utmost seriousness by the legislative offices of the Ministry" does not translate into wanting to find a quirk with which to tarp the wings to the possibility of independence of Veneto, because this time, dear President Renzi, I do not know if the Venetians will continue to be mild and respectful of the laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would like to remind you that this economic crisis, caused above all by the bad governance of this centralist and welfare policy in Rome, has led Veneto to have the tragic primacy of suicide among entrepreneurs: hundreds of companies or shops that close every day and thousands of people who lose their jobs and often even their homes. Despite this, Veneto continues to go on, to roll up its sleeves to do, to try to save the salvageable and maybe to create something new, even though it is always under attack by this State, which always comes to Veneto to take, demand, ask the IMU on closed sheds or send Equitalia to collect taxes that have not been paid for financial impossibility, cause severe crisis and high taxation. And they want them with interest! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In this scenario, of course, Minister Poletti arrives with a crazy statement and says that there are no more funds for the Integration Fund. Declaration that was not well received in Veneto, dear Minister Poletti. In Veneto they wonder: how come there is no money for the integration fund, when for decades the Venetians paid without taking advantage of it? It seems to me to recall that the Venetian workers paid five times more than what was actually used for the integration boards. But the funds for Operation Mare nostrum are there. President Renzi, we in Veneto do not care that Europe sends us a letter, complimenting us on how we welcome refugees from all over the world. The Venetians want to know what will happen to our exodus and whether young people can continue to be Venetian or will have to go around the world to find a job, while you oblige us to welcome and maintain people who do not speak our language and live behind our backs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You have forgotten those who no longer arrive at the end of the month and those who are unemployed. But, despite the serious moment of difficulty, Veneto is still one of those Regions that gives Rome some ten billion euros of taxes per year, which, as always happens, are wasted or rather disappear. They are given as aid to the usual regions or cities or municipalities that have more civil servants than citizens. In Veneto it rationalizes, in Veneto it saves itself, in Veneto also the public administrations work. Our mayors in a thousand difficulties manage to make ends meet; they often have a few euros in the drawer to set up schools or roads, but they cannot use them because of the Stability Pact. President Renzi, why must Veneto always guarantee the debts of other regions? We are tired and, now that the blanket is short, we are also a little less tolerant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We will make our referendum and we will show you by votes that Veneto wants change, that Veneto wants to be the leader of all those Regions that want and feel able to manage better than we are managed today by Rome. We don't want to hear it, we don't want to hear it, we don't want to hear it, we don't want to hear it, we don't When the referendum passes, you will be forced to accept the will of the people, because the people are sovereign. And precisely in these days, to be precise July 14, in which the anniversary of a revolution born to subvert the power constituted and transformed into a fratricidal war that deprived the people of freedom of the Vandean people, let us remember that true revolutions can come to life only by the people. And, in order for these to remain peaceful, this House must be able to interpret with foresight the popular demands, working well to reform the country system. Viva San Marco! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u20	Madam President, allow me to make a brief comment on the basis of my speech. Many times, indeed too many, in recent decades the political debate has focused on constitutional reforms. In all these years, in my opinion, it has been too light and easy to look at the reforms, which have been desired and supported by several parties as a possible solution for many of the evils that have afflicted and afflict our institutions, but also our economy. Each time the theme has been deepened, distorted, vivisected, inspected by all possible angles and by all perspectives. Ad hoc bicameral committees have been set up, working groups, committees of essays have been organized and much more has been done. In-depth studies, studies, reports, guidelines and manuals have been produced so as not to lose the compass among the thousand proposals often put forward under the sign of schizophrenia, to pursue the French system or the German one, or even the Spanish one, but each time he did not look at the real substance of things and what he actually needed from the country, or perhaps even its citizens. On many occasions, political forces have pursued constitutional reforms in instrumental terms, without there being, in most cases, a real need to intervene in order to amend a Constitutional Charter that is still today considered one of the best Constitutions in the world and it is not I who affirm it, but it is a widespread judgment among many authoritative constitutionalists, Italians and not. With these words, I do not want to appear to be a sword defender dealing with the Constitution, nor do I want in any way to hinder a reform process which has begun with renewed vigour, at least in intentions, and which I believe each of us has a duty to enter into the debate. Times seem to be ripe for a reform process, because we have to tell ourselves: in the meantime, many things have changed. The international political and economic context has changed, the social scenario is different; the mechanisms of society have changed, as well as expectations and ambitions have changed. In such a framework, the reform process, including constitutional reforms, takes on a topical character, in order to make the institutional architecture of our democratic system more functional and efficient and to give a signal to Europe of our renewed ambitions and our desire to reform. A signal to Europe to receive an equally clear signal from that Europe that wants our reforms, but that does not imagine how to reform its own structure and also its own spending. So, like most of you, I am convinced that the Constitution can be improved in some parts of it, I can also be convinced that it has become urgent to do so, but I would add that this revision must be done well. Well, what does that mean? I believe that we must avoid the mistakes that can be made more easily when animated by too much haste. We need a thoughtful approach and greater coherence, because at the moment the risk of changes that would worsen the text of the Constitution is concrete. We must be able to reconcile the need to reform with the need to ensure that we do not take dangerous steps backwards which would then be difficult to recover. We must be able not to see ourselves rejected, one tomorrow, a text because it is unconstitutional and there are cases and we could remember many of them. The theme of the reforms, especially when they affect the Constitution and have repercussions on the balance and on the complex and sophisticated system of weights and counterweights that our constituent Fathers have put in place to protect and guarantee a democracy inspired by the principles of participation, representation and pluralism, must be developed in an organic, structured and functional way to the objectives that we want to pursue, not to speak to the belly of the Italians, but to find a solution that can be valid even when we are no longer sitting on these benches. I, too, thank the rapporteurs, do so sincerely, because I believe that they should be given the commitment that has profoundly improved a text that was initially very superficial, but that is not the point. The debate in Parliament is a necessary, delicate and fundamental step, which I do not think can be hastily dismissed, because of something that must be done at all costs. We cannot forget that the process of constitutional revision is a prerogative of Parliament, whose timing and modalities cannot and should not be dictated by the government's agenda or by Group discipline. Caution is needed to assess the future consequences of the choices that are made today, to ensure that the changes introduced are harmoniously integrated with the rest of the provisions, having well in mind an overall balance of the system, as they have understood it in the past. I know I am repeating myself, but I do not want to be misunderstood here today: I am not opposed to a reform process, on the contrary, as a member of this House, I want to be in this process, I want to be able to say that I have brought my contribution and I want to be able to assume responsibility for the choices we make, provided that the result is adequate and responsive to the real needs of the country and to the expectations of the citizens, at least those that I, in my autonomy, read in society. It seems to me that with this quick step, and with the methods you are trying to make pass, you risk creating a kind of dangerous spread between what you wanted to announce, dangerously riding also the theme of anti-politics, and that to which you will arrive: a spread between promises and results. I cannot hide that I have welcomed this new force, at least in intentions, because, as a member of this House, I wanted to be in a reform process. I want to be able to try to contribute and I want to be able to assume responsibility, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are called - and this must be an honor but also a responsibility - to confront ourselves, and therefore to make decisions on the future structure of our Republic; on interventions of varying places and spaces outlined precisely by the Constitution. Places where political debate is animated, where politics is made, where it legislates for the country and for the Italians. We are called in practice to intervene on the mechanisms of democracy and inevitably to put the balance between powers and functions. I do not hide this either: I have the chills at the sole thought that we can arrive at a solution that delivers an imbalance of the power of the whole constitutional system towards the Executive, and to the detriment of democracy. I say that today, and I would have said that ten years ago. To prevent this from happening, we need the utmost attention and respect for what were the choices of the Fathers of the Constitutional Charter. You need to better understand which is the photograph of the current system and consequently the maximum comparison with the different positions in the field. After a troubled transition to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have come to this House, it is true; in my opinion it would have served more room for us, not members of the Commission, to the political forces for a broader reflection and discussion. They would have been necessary in order not to introduce us to the country with an agreement between two party leaders; they would have been necessary in the light of the particular moment that this country is living; they would have been necessary in order not to betray our own role, which is to give adequate answers to the expectations of citizens and of the country. 10:37 a.m. (Follow STEFANO). Here it should be remembered that the reform of the Senate and Title V has been linked in two ways with the reform of the electoral law, and any useful opportunity for comparison should have and should have taken into account that reasoning on these different levels cannot be separated. If I try to imagine the result at the end of the transition of reforms as a whole, I think that this arranged combination (Senato più Italicum) will produce a centralization of power, disguised by a pragmatic, effective and effective decision-making and will result in the reduction, perhaps even the closure in some spaces, of some of the places of our democracy. There are no counterweights planned. No adequate control function has been foreseen. Stefano Rodotà said that a few days ago, and his dissent is easily found in a large part of this Parliament, perhaps disguised as a group discipline that cannot be justified. It is not a question of teachers: it is a reason for common sense, and the danger of reducing the participation of citizens is useless and intuitive. In the reform work that has been launched, nothing is foreseen that enhances and encourages participation; on the contrary, it is being tried to narrow it down and make it less easy. The raising of the subscriptions required for the laws of popular initiative and referendum seems to go in this very dangerous direction, to keep company or, perhaps better, to close that logical circle started with the choice to reiterate the lists blocked in Italicum. The prediction of greater subscriptions for initiatives of direct democracy, as well as the impossibility of expressing the vote of preference empty, without too many turns of words or particular Byzantineisms, the democratic system of any country, continuing to relegate the choice of its representatives to the tables of party secretaries. Is that what the Constitutional Court asked us to do? Is that what the citizens are asking us to do? Is this the commitment that all political parties have made to communities for twenty years? Not to mention the shift and assignment of certain control functions to the Council, which would be unnecessarily loaded - and I also say dangerously - with tasks and competences of a political nature, and we - in my opinion - should guard against politicizing the supreme guarantee body of our system. We need to straighten the shot, because what's coming out is a dangerous mixture. In the new structure that is being created a party with 25% of the consents risks having the possibility to decide on everything: Commission, Presidency of the Republic, Constitutional Court, Supreme Council of the judiciary and guarantee institutions. [[Applause from Senator Molinari]] I don't think any of us want to risk a picture like this. Reforms are needed, of course, and we are convinced of them, but they must be thought to meet the needs of the country, taking into account also the history of this Republic and recalling the many passages in which the attempt at reform failed, and I say luckily it failed. We fully agree that the reform of the electoral law is no longer procrastinable, even after the ruling of the Constitutional Court in recent months. We agree that it must be accompanied by changes considered in the same way as no longer to be postponed, such as the decrease in the number of parliamentarians, the reform of the perfect bicameralism and, consequently, a new revision of Title V that reconsiders, in the light of the new discipline of the Chambers, that relationship so much discussed between State and Regions, between central and peripheral power. I do not find it right, however, to have wanted to proceed with contingency times, to the limit of possible, and with a method that I do not fully agree with; a method that mortifies the expectations of those who recognize themselves in the ways in which they have been declined the points that the Government has indicated as untenable: as far as I am concerned, certainly the theme of the composition of the Senate and that of overcoming the bicameralism of equality. We want a Senate elected by the people and the citizens have also expressed the same will. Finally, the polls say so, and I quote only one, that of IPR, presented a few days ago by a transversal group of senators. Italians don't like an appointed Senate. They'd rather abolish it tout court. Therefore, the intention of the majority of citizens is not to assign all power to a party or to a single party secretariat with appointed representatives: if anything, to have a Senate chosen by the citizens who, even if they do not have to vote on the trust, can really exercise the functions of control over the work of Government. I want to open a parenthesis and tell my colleagues that I have been relatively short in politics for a long time. I have been elected twice to the Regional Council of Puglia, with my preferences, and I have been elected in this context, even as a leader and though passing through the primaries, according to the mechanism provided for by Porcellum. I can assure you that the responsibility it assumes with the direct election by the people charged with greater commitment and makes you feel the true representative of those who voted for you. Even in a position like mine - I repeat, I was elected here as a leader, passing from the primaries - the link with the citizens is not authentic: it is a link that passes from the will of others, which passes from the will of a party secretariat. I believe that, in a country that wants to innovate, this concept must be removed. Instead, in this text, a second level election is envisaged, without considering that each Region has its own electoral law, perhaps in some cases even with blocked lists, so they could end up in the Senate regional advisors who have never faced a direct election. Where is the democratic process? Our democracy needs interventions capable of recreating a connection between institutions and politics. The solution proposed by the Government goes in the opposite direction and will not solve the problem of disaffection with regard to politics. We will be credible, as a political class, only if we commit ourselves to making the forms of representation more democratic and not less democratic. We will be credible when we talk about Members' status, conflict of interest, accumulation of posts. Then yes, we will be credible. For us it was never a taboo to overcome the perfect bicameralism. On the contrary, we believe that we must review and put our hand in the process of the formation and approval of laws in the direction of a simplification of time. Similarly, we consider it necessary to transform the Senate into a body that can deal a little more with the state-autonomous relationship, without this exhausting the tasks assigned to it, which must be a guarantee and supervision over the action of the government and public administration, and which must explicitly concern vital competences for the country such as the revision of the Constitution, electoral systems, the European Union's legal order, issues relating to fundamental freedoms and rights. In such a vision we cannot forget that the Senate remains a branch of Parliament which is, by definition, the collegial body of a representative-political nature through which the people exercise power. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefano, I invite you to conclude. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). By making it non-elective, however, citizens are deprived of the right to directly elect their representatives, resulting in the impoverishment of democracy. Some people object that mayors and regional presidents are happy. I believe that, but it is not enough that they are happy mayors and presidents of the Region. We need the citizens of our country to recognize themselves in a process of reforms that has lived, not as much as a government attitude, but as a process of democracy. I am convinced that this House cannot escape being, above all, a place of democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Buemi.]] Mr President, I would like to add the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u21	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u22	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u23	Mr President, do you realize that if the constitutional reform we are discussing were in force today, you would not be the second office of the State? Do you realize that you will be the last President of the Senate to be second in office of the State? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm freezing my blood at the thought of who might be the second office of the state right now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u24	Thank you, but I want to tell you that they are for the seafaring traditions: a commander is on board always, until the last.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u25	[[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]] MARTON (M5S). First of all, an aesthetic curiosity. This reform compares the original and the Commission's text. Article 55 created by our Constituents says: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two chambers only in the cases laid down in the Constitution. Then I go to read the article that will be, then the "simplification" that will take place: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Each member of the Chamber of Deputies represents the nation. The Chamber of Deputies holds the relationship of trust with the Government and exercises the function of political direction, the legislative function and that of controlling the work of the Government. The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions. It shall contribute, in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution, to the legislative function and shall act as a link between the European Union, the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic. It participates in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation. It evaluates the activities of public administrations, checks the implementation of state laws, controls and assesses public policies. He helps to express opinions on the appointments of the Government's competence in the cases provided for by law. The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two Chambers only in the cases laid down by law. And that's what we call simplification? We add a lot of words when the constituent Fathers had used few. But I must also thank the rapporteurs, because the previous words in the government text were terrifying. So, I thank Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Calderoli for putting pieces - because this is what it is - to reform. Personally, I am opposed to overcoming the bicameralism of equality, and I explain why. Yesterday Senator Martelli made a precise logical examination in seven points, giving precise responsibilities to the Government. I don't. I give them to people. Undersecretary Pizzetti has already heard me say these words in the Commission: in my opinion, the only ones responsible for the current functioning of Parliament are the individual people. And I'll explain. One of the reasons given in the report accompanying the Government's draft law is the chronic weakness of the Executives in the implementation of the government's programme, the slowness and cumbersomeness of legislative procedures, the excessive use - by number and heterogeneity of content - of the decree of urgency and the emergence of the practice of the question of confidence on maximendamenti. The decrees are made by the Government, which is composed of people. If the President of the Republic were really the guarantor of the Constitution, certain decrees would never, I say, have signed them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So first of all, let the President of the Republic stop signing things. Secondly, that the Ministers and the Government should stop proposing these decrees. They are aberrations of behavior that I find truly unacceptable. Moreover, I am against overcoming the bicameralism of equality because usually in the passage of a bill from one House to another there is one wonderful thing: journalists are unleashed - if we can still talk about journalists - and public opinion, so there is a positive pressure from the outside for the other Chamber to change the mistakes of the previous Chamber. Another lie you tend to say is that this double passage paralyzes: that's definitely not true. I tell the citizens I'm out. The formation of the laws takes place in one way, in my opinion, perfect: the individual parliamentarians, and not the government, have the legislative initiative and propose a law; the bill is assigned to the Commissions, is incardinated, discussed and then brought to the examination of the Chamber. This is the case for all the draft laws, for all the Commissions and for both branches of Parliament. That is to say that the two branches always work on different things, exchanging acts. So the lie - because it's a lie - of paralysis is absolutely unfounded. So I want to explain why this reform has been done. In the report to the draft law of the Government I found a disturbing passage (the day before yesterday the undersecretary Pizzetti was offended when Senator Cioffi said that he did not believe that Minister Boschi wrote those words: I really hope that he did not do it, that someone else wrote it and that you are not responsible for it), in fact, we read, about the direct election of the senators, that it is another aspect that I am concerned about, that direct election inevitably could drag with him the risk that the senators make themselves bearers of demands linked more to the political forces than to the institutions of belonging, or of special needs limited exclusively to their own territory, and that their direct legitimacy by the citizens can, moreover, lead them to want to affect also the choices of political direction (...). If the honourable Member and Minister Boschi wrote this, this passage means: Dear Senators, you can no longer be elected by the people, because you could do the good of the people or of your territory: ergo, we expect a second degree election, so that you no longer count anything. Therefore, to come and tell us that taking regional councillors or mayors, which you will still choose, is to preserve us from the possibility that they do the interest of the party or territory, seems to me the biggest stupidity that a person can even imagine. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You may have been offended, but I really hope that the Minister has not written it and someone else has written it and that you are defending it with the sword. I took part in all three days of general discussion so far and I appreciated the intervention of Senator Micheloni, so much so that I wanted to say his own words. I will not mention the representatives of my Group, but the other colleagues I appreciated, such as Senator Corsini. This is because I faced the path of this reform, exactly in the spirit mentioned by Senator Micheloni: I wanted to listen to other people, because maybe I'm wrong. Of all the speeches I have heard, there has not been one who has defended this reform: perhaps only that of a senator, whose name I do not remember and which I hope will forgive me. You may have asked yourself questions if this is happening. I have also often seen the work of the Commission. I liked the part which, in my opinion, has wasted time on the Commission, concerning the debate on the number of signatures to request a referendum or to present a law of popular initiative. The question was whether to predict a number of 300,000, 200,000 or 500,000. To Senator Finocchiaro I pointed out that the method by which signatures can be collected is not irrelevant to the amount of signatures to be collected. Senator Caliendo spoke on the subject, saying how difficult the collections of signatures are, but he imagined the times and tools of that time. However, several years have passed and the world has changed. So I asked, by tabling an amendment to this effect: why do we not expect in the Constitution that the collection of signatures will also be possible in electronic form? At that point the required number of signatures can be raised to the amount you want: time ten minutes and signatures will be collected. What are we talking about? We are talking about updating the Constitution to date, but with instruments from the day before yesterday. What are we talking about? Senator Caliendo, I understand the meaning of your thinking: if we raise too much the number of signatures required, we do not guarantee participation. But what is the participation? Ask a guy today what he can do with a cell phone. If we attribute digital identity to babies, why don't we predict these things? When we talk about reforms, why don't we predict broadband? There is a study on the Prime Minister's table: 19 billion investment on ultra-broadband. Why don't we do this reform instead of touching the Constitutional Charter? I guess no one has a chance to answer that. It is clear that this is not possible. If we achieve ultra-broadband, we are going to affect the interests of Telecom, who has secured the network with the banks. So if we're going to replace Telecom, setting up a public agency that only manages the network, then giving telecommunication operators access, we're making a company fail. And that's probably not allowed to many of you. But imagine what a qualitative leap Italy would make? 19 billion investments, not 150, 1000, but 19 billion. These are the reforms I would like, the words I would like in the Constitutional Charter, because it is true that this is not immodifiable, but let us update it today. We do not think as the constituent Fathers, who came out from a very different period. That period, however, may come back at this time. All colleagues have shown the authoritarian drift of this reform without authority. Let us remember that Mayor Renzi did not pass through elections to become Prime Minister. I do not just want to be destructive, I have made some proposals but I would like to make others, because in my opinion this reform should be seen as a whole for the proper functioning of the electoral law. What should the electoral law provide for? And why are governments weak right now? The reason is that coalition is needed to win and rule. Then, when it is necessary to be a government, there is necessarily a division and there are no saints: you have guaranteed me all votes, you will have the Ministry of the Interior. It doesn't have to work that way. Why do we not foresee a pure proportional electoral system? Do we want to put up a barrage? Let's put them, even if they are personally against the barricades, at that point the political force that takes the most votes decides the government. The various political forces must publish the party's programme in advance to present themselves to the elections. So, every single party has to present a program. The Government that is constituted, once represented in Parliament compares all the points in common between the various political forces. The first points will be those put on the field by more political forces and I am sure that those points will be realized immediately, immediately. There is, in fact, no problem of opposition, of minorityism. Opposition is done when there is a government that doesn't listen. I do not like the term opposition, I love the word minority, because it expresses a totally different concept. So let's imagine a system with multi-programmes compared and the common points of which are realized first. In my opinion, the country would have a monstrous acceleration, without touching absolutely the institutional structure. You don't touch anything. This, in my opinion, is a proposal to be put on the table immediately. Let us then focus on the electoral law. I asked the Commission to withdraw this constitutional bill, but it is clear that it was absolutely impossible. It has been pointed out to me - I say to Senator Finocchiaro - that in the Commission he spoke of the Provinces and - if I remember correctly - he said that the Constitution should not remove the Provinces in itself, but the word "Province", because this word has been moved from one point and the word "wide area" has been inserted into another point. In my opinion, this is not the way to make a constitutional change. That's not how you do it. I shall conclude, although I probably still have several minutes, thinking about how totally incorrect it is to remove the possibility for voters to express an opinion. You're talking about participation, but that's not what this is about. Before I had a pleasant chat with Senator Zavoli, who I think has much more experience than mine. He pointed out to me with regard to certain attitudes of some alleged leaders - and I say presumed because, in my opinion, leaders are something else: leaders have authority, not authority - that if we go ahead on this slope we will find ourselves in extremely dark times. Therefore, I turn to the senators, especially those of the majority I had to listen very carefully: President Renzi (the Mayor Renzi, the President of the Council Renzi) is giving you inability. You probably do not realize this - some may not realize it in good faith - because you think that this provision will be for the next senators. But if it's set up for the next senators, it's because these senators are considered incapable. He is saying: gentlemen, you are not capable of doing things. I also put myself in it that I have no authority to give you incompetent or to erect me as a superior, but in fact he is telling you this: since you are incapable, I take away your power. I put my mayors, my regional counselors, some of you perhaps, the most faithful I will bring to the House, and all the others, gentlemen: your business, good luck. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u27	Mr President, as you know - and I say this to my fellow Members - I have asked to speak at a time when the Rules of Procedure do not extend this debate by five minutes (this is not my intention), but because my speech is not easy, as I have done at other times in my political commitment. I have to say that it is always about constitutional issues or electoral laws or referendums that I find myself having different positions from those of the party to which I belong. This is not easy, because it is certainly not pleasing, it is not a reason for joy: my experience is that of a party man, because I think that parties are important and fundamental in democratic life, but I also think that each of us must respond to our own convictions and consciences, at least on issues relating to the Constitution. My conviction is that this reform proposal, as it is now, albeit with improvements - which I will acknowledge later - which have intervened in the Commission in relation to the initial text, does not work in different and fundamental aspects for me, it is not able to positively innovate the life of our institutions and above all weaken or weaken the balance and fundamental counterweights between the powers of the State. The Constitution is not just made up of articles, each of which is judged and said which one we like best and which one less: it is an overall picture. I can also change in the sense that I like an article, but if this breaks down the connective tissue with others, the Constitution, for what the Constitutions must be, does not work. I say this with respect and with true esteem towards the speakers, whom I have known for a lifetime and I know how difficult their work is, and, I mean, also towards those in this Senate who do not think like me. The only fundamental debate we will have is now taking place in this House, because we all know that, when this reform comes back from the House, if the debate is changed, it will be on the points of amendment, if it has not been changed, it will not even be possible to table agendas. Well, I hope that at least in this House, as it has been so far, in this real and only serious debate that is now taking place, we will avoid the use of slogans that are not worthy of a confrontation such as that which must exist on the Constitution and the institutions of our Republic. Let us not improvise constitutionalism when Rule 67 is valid: if it begins or ends in the Commission, if it returns or ends in the Chamber. Don't go like this. This has disturbed the confrontation there has been, and I therefore hope that at least here it will be avoided. I believe, Mr President, that today, in 2014, more than ever, participation and governance must not be opposed to each other, but must be two sides of the same coin. I believe that more than ever controls are essential in deciphering the quality of a democracy, because without controls, that is, without limits to those who exercise power, there is no democracy. It is not just a technical relationship between the institutions, it is the right of us as citizens to live in a community. Now, what is missing in Italy, that is, it is missing not in the reform project, but it was missing even before in my opinion, and it is a lack that now risks becoming even more accentuated, it is precisely this balance between the various powers. You directly elect the mayor, and it's good and fair for me. But the municipal assemblies have been reduced to a low role, and this is wrong, it was not and is not inevitable. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Candiani, Di Maggio, Liuzzi and Buemi senators.]] This was the case for the regions. The President of the Region is elected, but together with the Regional Councils. That simul stabunt simul cadent that we regional presidents then, as Mr Martini may recall, said that it was wrong: it was 1991, or at least in those years, and how many years have passed? I think it's 23. Here we are careful, because what we do knowing that it is wrong may take tens of years to modify it, but it produces failures in a few months. It's not that if I make a mistake then the error changes in a few months. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Candiani, Di Maggio and Buemi senators.]] And this simultaneity of the election of the President and of the Regional Assemblies makes objectively subordinate and at risk of influence of the latter. I do not know if you can read, as I do sometimes, about the debate in the Italian regions: at first I did not find a President who said so or the Council is dissolved. Well, it is beginning to be frequent, ladies and gentlemen. It's starting to get more frequent. That's not how democracy works. It's not like that elsewhere. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Candiani, Di Maggio and Buemi senators.]] Now, at national level, we have little control over our political culture, which is different from the Anglo-Saxon culture. This is our limit, which we carry with us, not the reform, due to the lack of instruments and also of rules at our disposal. If, for example, an urgent question - about question time is not discussed - the answer comes after three or four months. How many times have we talked about this? This is accompanied by an objective shift of decision-making influence on the Government. Some forces speak of the direct election of the President of the Republic, such as Forza Italia and NCD, while claiming at the same time that the citizens no longer have to elect even the senators. On the one hand, politics as a whole, even we who do not share these approaches, is losing credibility and authority with these incredible acrobatisms, with these tactics in which there is no relationship between saying and doing; on the other hand, there is a disturbing shadow over our future. It is not the shadow of the possible election of the President of the Republic by the citizens. If you present to me the model of the United States of America, with the direct election of the President, who is also head of government, with a House and a Senate directly elected by the citizens, who have their functions and their autonomy I sign it and vote it immediately, and I also support the referendum! [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] No. The shadow is that of an elected President without autonomous counterweights, with no strong and legitimate Chamber and Senate. It is that of a regional model that becomes national, while it should be profoundly correct. And I am concerned that, on "L'Avvenire" this morning, the Minister of Reform says exactly that: let's quickly resolve the problem of the Senate, then there will be presidentialism, then we do not know what else. In the Senate not directly elected by the citizens, and in the Chamber directly elected by Italicum, the presidentialism and the direct election of the President of the Republic are matched! [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] But do you realize what you say and what you do or joke with the future of our country? From now on I hope that we can take action: I am addressing the rapporteurs, to say that you have improved the guillotine, but that, even improved, it is heavy and that is not what we said. Just as, starting from the points of appreciation of the draft law that we are debating, I think it is to be appreciated that the quorum on the referendum is the one that refers to the majority of those who participated in the last elections. But let's lower our signatures. Senator Marton said that you could predict the collection of signatures in digital form, so they collect. That is not the case, because not all citizens (and I am not referring to Members) know how to use broadband and the Internet. And democracy must serve to give the right of participation and choice to those who live in a country. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Buemi, Candiani and Di Maggio Senators]] Then I want to say that they convince me of other points, that they convinced me even before. Only the House must trust the Government: yes. The last word on most of the laws must be of the House: yes. Here lies the overcoming of equal bicameralism. Let's say the truth: this is the overcoming of equal bicameralism. The rest can and must be discussed, because otherwise they combine (or can be combined, of course, from my point of view) some mess. Just as I think it is useful and important that there is the right of substantial minorities (of which we have discussed so many times here too) to appeal to the Constitutional Court on laws. Other aspects, not only the model of election of senators, do not convince me and, in my opinion, open up problems of balance between institutions and between the powers of the State. I would now like to dwell on these points. The new Senate is a continental peculiarity, said Senator Finocchiaro. I thank you, because the definition is right. I do not share the merit, but it is the right definition. Why should it be said that the new Senate is the Bundesrat, if the Bundesrat is not? But do you think you're dealing with fools? It is clear that it is a continental peculiarity. Then we discuss whether it's right or not. It's not fair to me, and then I'll explain why. It is a peculiarity for at least two reasons: the method of appointment of the 21 mayors and the 74 regional councillors who will be senators, with some rules (and in this regard Senator Calderoli made some considerations on which I invite everyone to reflect) of indirect election, even put in the Constitution, which seem ambiguous to me. The Regional Councils will have to take account, on the one hand, of the votes received by the political forces in the elections (clearly proportional reference) and, on the other hand, of their composition, i.e. the composition of the Groups. Therefore, it is an entirely opposite reference, since, with the exception of the Valle d'Aosta, in the other regions a strong majority prize is issued: with 40% of the votes you take 60% of the seats. So, where does the pendulum stop? If we leave ambiguous, somewhat Byzantine solutions, these have always accompanied the non-choices of Italian politics, and this will result in negotiations, Region by Region, between majority and opposition, within majorities, within oppositions, until there will also be a majority that chooses which opposition. I think that in part this is inevitable because an indirect election does not work in which we want to have the votes that only citizens can give and I believe that this is a problem. Then there is another aspect that hits me negatively. The mayors are hired into political groups: there is a whisper of the mayors within the political groups. A mayor will decide whether it is in the majority, the majority will decide whether it is included instead of a regional councillor, or vice versa. I happen to be the mayor in my town. I really think that, whether directly elected or not, mayors are first citizens and that, at the time they are mayors, they represent that city. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Candiani, D'Adda, Gatti and Liuzzi senators]] Here they will no longer represent a city or cities, but a political force; it seems to me to be a small thing. Then there is a strangeness, which I detect with respect and friendship for my colleagues from the SVP of Trentino-Alto Adige, where I sometimes spend the holidays because I like the mountains and their areas; we avoid, please, that, in a transitional rule, the only mayor senator who is known to be present, is the mayor of Bolzano. [[Applause from Senators Tavern, Malan and Bell.]] Let's do it for the mayor of Bolzano himself, as well as for the credibility of the whole approach. Then there is the problem of the single list and the contradiction contained in it. I would therefore like to comment on the second question: it is true that there is no equal bicameralism in the major European democracies. But we can take the case of France, Germany and Spain: no one has experienced this kind of indirect election. The Bundesrat has the regional governments that are part of it, they have a united vote and there is a law for the House (the Bundestag), which has a proportional to the 5% barrier. The French Senate in competence is very bicameral, more than others and ours. He is certainly elected by a smaller audience, which includes municipal, departmental, regional councillors, national MEPs and Circuits, but he is elected, and the parties could run mayors, regional presidents, but also citizens from 24 years of age. It was not an obligation, but a possibility. From March last, for the mayor or the president of the Region, the incompatibility has taken place and in the next elections it will not be able to be candidate. At the National Assembly there is a two-round majority in the college. The Spanish Senate is elected for four fifths by departments and citizens, and for one fifth by regional communities (apart from the numbers, two thirds and one third, is a bit like Senator Caliendo's proposal), with an electoral law that has a barrier of 3% and, then, the remains that burn in that college. In Italy, instead, a dogma has been established, which I do not understand, and we are heretics and rebels if you support what I am going to say. We are heretics in democracy if we say that there are citizens who are sovereign and who have the right to choose their representatives by their vote. [[Applause from the PD groups, Misto-Sel, Misto-ILC and Misto Mov X and Senator Giovanardi.]] Ladies and gentlemen, tell me you disagree. Since, however, you are going to ask for the vote, as we all will, for your party and your nominations, when you do, you will say that the vote of the citizens is good and, instead, when the senators were to be elected, it sucked and was indeed a scandal? [[Applause from the PD groups, Misto-Sel, Misto-ILC and Misto Mov X.]] It's conservation, maybe. Keeping democracy is not bad; preserving freedom is not bad. It is said that this would keep bicameralism equal; it is a double falsehood. Not only because you write in the Constitution that there is not, but because for this Senate, as I said, you could vote with a proportional law, so that it opens up to the participation of those in the Regions, it does not have to give confidence to the Government, and this could be, and in conjunction with the elections of the Regional Councils. So the Senate would not be formed by a single national election, nor would it be dissolved at a common and fixed deadline; how would it appropriate a vote of confidence that the Constitution does not give it? On the vote of the citizens, I would like to invite everyone to give more attention and reflection; to measure those who do not agree on comparison and on words. You see, it is argued that if the citizens' right to choose their representatives was confirmed, the reform would be compromised: then, if this amendment were to pass, for example, what would happen? Would the reform be withdrawn? Supporting this is absurd and I believe that in these settings there is nothing new, but so old. These thesis on indirect voting and a narrower democracy are dated nineteenth century, 1800. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, Bignami and Gambaro.]] In those years it was argued, by some forces and the ruling classes of the time, that recourse to forms of indirect election or nomination of parliamentarians as an embankment to democracy understood as the right of all to participate in the decisions of the community. They feared the people's contagions, due to the difference of class, culture and knowledge. It is the result of this context that, for example, in the United States at the beginning, the Senate was indirectly elected by the legislative assemblies of the various states. Not yesterday but in 1913, a century ago, a reform was decided that entrusted citizens with the right to elect senators. Two reasons for this reform: the excessive corruption that occurred and the prevalence of localism in the face of national functions. I ask the two rapporteurs and also the others, of course: what persuades you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are immune from these possible drifts? Don't we have cancer and the risk of corruption? I'm glad you did. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] And do our regions have a wider dimension, more populations than the American states, so that they are vaccinated against an excess of localism? The challenge facing representative democracy today can be met and won if participation extends, not if the delegation to a few is strengthened. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]] Does globalisation not require representative democracy to leave national borders and to give new instruments which are not entrusted to executives alone and to the conciliation of executives? Who is convinced, like me, that a real supranational democracy must be built in Europe, that he thinks he can achieve it with the people, or that he believes he can do it without them, or that he thinks he can do it with the peoples at European level, but without peoples at national level? Strange square of the circle, actually. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Candiani, Campanella, Bignami and Mussini.]] There is no democracy without citizens and there is no reformism without people. In society today we experience extraordinary experiences of participation, which we unfortunately fail to grasp: in volunteering or the forms of confrontation and commitment to the choices of cities. Our task should be to link representative democracy to experiences and willingness to participate, not to close it in small rooms of professionals. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] We are careful, because in my opinion - I hope to make a mistake, but that is my conviction - we are taking the highway in the opposite direction on the future of democracy, in the opposite sense, as in the famous joke. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, Bignami, Gambaro, Bocchino and Mussini.]] One final consideration. Have I finished my time, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. You may conclude, Senator Chiti. I then turn over the text of my speech on the other subjects and on bicameral competences, so that it can be annexed to the report of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CHITI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to stress and conclude. I apologise to my colleagues, but there will not be many speeches in this House after this reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I was positively surprised that Senator Calderoli has taken on an aspect that I share: how can ethically sensitive laws, such as those on biological wills or religious freedoms, not be bicameral? I am surprised that this was not caught by senators with whom I had friendships and I had comparisons, sometimes of convergence and sometimes of even strong differentiation, such as Senators Casini or Quagliariello. On these issues there cannot always be a primacy of Realpolitik. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Bell and Buemi Senators]] We must reflect on the substance: whether we should intervene on these laws by jumping. I would like to thank the President for allowing me to hand over the written text of my speech, which is also about immunity and non-bicameral laws. I would just like to conclude by quoting a contemporary philosopher I love very much, Jürgen Habermas, who says the following about the Constitution: The legitimacy of a Constitutional Charter, as a prerequisite for legality, derives from two sources: the equal political participation of all citizens and the reasonable form in which political conflicts are resolved. This reasonable form can not only be a struggle for arithmetic majorities, but it must be characterized as a process of argumentation sensitive to truth. To strive for our reflections to be a process rather than a frontal confrontation, a deepening sensitive to beliefs and a common search for truth, which no one has in his pocket, could help us to make a good constitutional reform. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Candiani, Di Maggio, Buemi and Giovanardi senators. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u28	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u29	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that many arguments will come back to light in the course of our debate, when we move on to the voting stage, which, from what I read, is not short and not easy, and I would not like some people to try to evade it completely through a veritable obstructionism, as some numbers of amendments suggest. However, I would like to say that on the concept of popular sovereignty the Group of Forza Italia does not have to take lessons from anyone, I am also referring to this last speech. Our initial position was notoriously favourable to the direct election of the members of this Senate, a somewhat strange Senate, undoubtedly a "senatic," which is no longer the Senate of the past and is certainly not the State-Regions Conference, because it still has a different assembly dimension. Many of us have said, not provocatively, but honestly, that it was perhaps worth risking monocameralism, with the election of the Chamber of Deputies alone. However, it is a fact that reform of the Constitution can be done if a reasonable compromise is reached. The 1948 Constitution itself, which is rightly often magnified and exalted, was the result of a high mediation, which concerned not only the organizational parts of the Republic, but also the fundamental principles. I remember, among many, the discussion on Article 7, which concerned a non-secondary issue: the relationship between Catholics and non-Catholics, the role of the Lateran Pacts in the life of the Republic. It was a complex affair that led to the formulation of article 7, which represented a high moment of balance in the life of the Republic and our nation. However, the theme on which I want to focus my speech is presidentialism, a form of government, Senator Chiti, which is not a danger to democracy, because then there is a contradiction on the part of those who call for the direct election of the senators, but then sees presidentialism as almost a danger, while I believe it is a logical development of the reform of the institutions. We of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura have decided to share this reform path, through countless discussions and as many doubts, through multiple mediations within our Group and the party that, as it is right that it is in the face of such an important debate, have continued and will continue. I am not for the criminalisation of different opinions, but I think that, after decades of attempts, the failure of this reform would feed anti-politics, mischievous representations, which we sometimes see here too. Therefore, I believe that an acceptable compromise is better than an inexorable failure. With regard to the election of second degree, it is clear that it was the Democratic Party that insisted on this aspect and on this position. We were open also to other hypotheses, also to the list to elect, at the same time as the regional elections, the number of senators of competence of this or that Region. It was felt that this was a fundamental point; we took note of it. Our Group does not today have in this legislature numbers to dictate a reform, and when we had the numbers to make a reform (and we made it in 2006) a legitimate use of an instrument existing in our Constitution, the confirmation referendum without quorum, led to the rejection of that text. We do not feel therefore lagging behind the need for reforms, because when we had the numbers we completed a broad and organic reform of the Constitution, which concerned Title V of Part II, the direct election of the Premier and many other aspects: it was certainly a more extensive and better reform than what we are about to launch. Today we have a different numerical dimension and we had the choice to be part of the front of the no, to say we want more, or to participate in a partial change anyway because our party's programme provided for both the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism and the reduction, in some way, of the number of parliamentarians. In fact, I remember that our party in the electoral campaign had indicated in the programme that the number of MPs had halved: some perhaps subscribe to the electoral programmes thinking that they are something secondary and instead that was a commitment that all of us candidates had signed up to. This reform does not cut the number of Members half because if 630 Members remain, leaving out the 100 members of this Senate, who will still have a national status, it is well over half. What I complain about - and I am sorry there is not at this time the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, but I draw the attention of the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli - was the exclusion in this House (but I do not think that will be the case when we vote) of the issue of presidentialism. I have tabled, as an instance of principle supported by our entire Group, a number of amendments introducing the direct election of the President of the Republic. These amendments are the same as a package of amendments amending the Constitution that this Senate Assembly approved in the last parliamentary term - there were not many colleagues who were there even then, but there is someone, and in any case the acts speak - who changed the form of government, giving the President of the Republic elected by the people a series of powers and changing related articles. I remember what concerns the Supreme Council of the judiciary because it is clear - and I draw the attention and the competence of President Grasso - that a President elected by the people cannot also carry out that function. I have tabled these amendments in the Commission and, with a bureaucratic response, poor as content, President Finocchiaro (it was not the rapporteurs but the President of the Commission who had the power to decide on the admissibility of the amendments) decided that those amendments could not be voted on. However, I made it clear in the Commission that our Group did not make it a matter of direct concern (or vote on presidentialism or we call ourselves out of the reforms): we wanted to discuss that issue, but if there had not been, as I believe there are no figures in this House, the numbers to approve it, we would still have continued the path of possible reforms. This is the subject we are discussing: the possible reforms are being made rather than the non-reforms. There is the State-Regions relationship theme that is at the heart of everyone, of the League in particular, that must perhaps be the subject of discussions; it will take a balance point, dear friends. These things have already been done, and Calderoli will remember, when we did that other reform of the Constitution that the referendum did not confirm, what we discussed in Parliament and in the preparatory work for the changes to Title V, discussing in concrete terms that the telecommunications networks, which today are global, cannot be blackmailed by the mayor of the last country of Italy. So we have had the debate many times on the concrete aspects of the relationship between the central state and the territories. As far as the election of the President of the Republic is concerned, the Constitution says that the issue is topical. In the Constituent Calamandrei and others lined up for the direct election of the Head of State. The theme came back in the 1960s with Randolfo Pacciardi, Maranini, Silvano Tosi and Salvatore Vali tutti; in the 1970s the Christian Democracy and the group "Europa 70" relaunched this instance. She was launched by Giorgio Almirante's Right and she took over the secular-socialist area with Bettino Craxi and others. Therefore, the theme of direct election of the Head of State has been part of the debate since the themes of the Constitution, but there have never been conditions to approve it. In the other legislature, in the Senate, we approved presidentialism. It may be said that we knew that the reform would come to fruition. Maybe we knew, but in the Senate we have this argument. Since the Commission - I see President Finocchiaro here now - has been said that the amendments were inadmissible, I have retabled them in the Chamber and I am pleased that now the President of the Senate has the power and responsibility to decide on their eligibility. In addition to those that change the form of government and may not be voted on, I have tabled two other amendments. Without altering the functions of the Head of State, I propose two amendments - not 7,000 - which, if rejected by the House, will not make us stray from the path of possible reforms. We also want those, dear Senator Finocchiaro, to be discussed, and not out of spite, but because it is a great issue which, since the time of the Constitution, is present in the political and parliamentary debate of the Republic, for which it is absolutely legitimate. President Grasso, I have tabled two other amendments. One of them provides for the direct election of the President of the Republic with equal powers. The Commission has spoken on the electoral corps of the President of the Republic. Amendments have been adopted which form part of the basic text which make changes: the quorums, the first votes in one way and other votes have been changed. In essence, it has been discussed and I believe that amendments will be tabled in this House to propose that MEPs be added to Parliament's electoral body in joint session. The issue of the electoral corps of the President of the Republic has therefore been discussed. On equal terms, this House will have to decide on a further possibility of change: that the electoral corps should be made up of all Italians with equal functions in the current situation. I then tabled another amendment which I had already decided to make before I even heard Senator Casini's speech yesterday in this House. It is an amendment that states that Parliament elects the Head of State by three votes, with a qualified quorum of two thirds and that, if in these three votes it - it has happened so many times - does not express the President of the Republic, the word passes to the citizens. We do not, therefore, proceed to other votes by reduced quorum or in the end by an absolute majority, but we entrust the decision to the people. I would point out these two amendments because I believe that such matters do not affect the substance and form of government. Of course, it can be said how a President of the elected Republic can deal with a President of the Council who has parliamentary confidence. This, however, has already happened, President Grasso. We have had years of substantial presidentialism. I do not want to argue with anyone, because I, who am a presidentialist, certainly did not marvel at the substantial presidentialism that we have experienced. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What was the appointment of a lifetime senator who then became President of the Council the next day, if not an act of substantive presidentialism by the Quirinale? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I am a presidentialist who overlooks the detail that was a President voted not by the Italians but by Parliament. Therefore, we have seen the system show its limitations and then I hope that this debate, starting from Calamandrei in order to arrive today on formal presidentialism, substantial, denied, approved but then remained beached in the long way between one branch and the other of Parliament, can be held in this House. The latter, then, will not agree - as the forecasts allow me to imagine - but at least we will have discussed this issue and have brought it to the benefit. I don't know if there's gonna be another phase. I don't rely on frankly journalistic interviews and I don't get hot. I also believe that this Government is unclear on many issues. On direct election at regional level, perhaps it could support a greater effort to have a wider consensus. I did not understand the persistence of the President-in-Office of the Council on this indirect system, but, because we are opposed to the failure of the reform, we note that this plan prevails. As far as presidentialism is concerned, today we can discuss it in this House in the forms I have said, and I really hope that this can be done. In fact, preventing the vote on this, which could be negative - perhaps positive and for this I fight - would be a wrong way of compressing the debate. That is what I wanted to draw attention to, since many of my group's colleagues have already spoken and will speak about it and since we have discussed it within our party with the effort and suffering resulting from the fact that this time, perhaps, reform can really be done. Many thought to announce in the rally the abolition of the Senate and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, saying they were ready to sign the program, in the belief that it would never happen. That was a bit of a political trend. As I said, we did a reform in 2006, with the reduction of the number of Members and senators and the direct election of the Premier, according to a much more organic and balanced design. Today, however, we do not sign up for the "no" party to prevent anti-politics from finding another opportunity and to avoid those controversy for which we are already considered a "caste" today. We have seen how many castes there are in Italy, in many environments (entrepreneurs, togati and so on), even if we know well that we are destined to a particular gogna. We believe that we can proceed with a partial reform, even by trying to challenge this Parliament to debate and vote on presidentialism because, if one is in favour of this thesis, he must say so now; if then there is excessive tacticism, because you are afraid of lacerations in your party, well, then you have to have a little more courage. Mr President - and I shall conclude - I wanted to concentrate my speech on this aspect and on a positive constructive attitude, which is also a great sacrifice, because bringing a party - as happened to ours too - to discussions and divisions is a generous choice on the part of everyone. You yourself, Mr President, rarely intervene in the political debate, you have made some clarifications, some of which have helped to determine some outcomes, others less, as happens to all. We do not intend to appear those who defend a caste, but we want to defend a principle of participatory democracy, so the vote of voters is fundamental. And this - look - is not necessarily linked to bicameralism; if anything it is linked to presidentialism, to that direct democracy that, with the election of mayors and presidents of the Regions, has become a heritage. We are living in a situation of substantial presidentialism in recent years. People have long believed in voting directly for the President of the Council. Except for the dark phase of technicians and various maneuvers, when there were the challenges between Berlusconi and Veltroni, rather than Rotelli or Prodi, people, even from the names he read on the cards, thought to elect a decision-maker, who in that case was the President of the Council, but who could be the President of the Republic, because the models are many. We believe that the political world is lagging behind this issue, because Italians already believe that there is some kind of presidentialism, even if the last few years have seen some doubt arise, with the Monti and Letta Governments. The Renzi Government itself, born in a manner of conspiracy and maneuvering of a palace, does not honour the principles of direct democracy. So, Mr President, allow the House to speak on the subject of presidentialism, on equal terms, even if there were to prevail a somewhat obscurantist stance on the impossibility of discussing the form of government - which, in my opinion, was a mistake in the Commission - and do not go back to the future. If it does not pass, when we get to the point, it will have served to make a review of the positions and to make people understand that we do not want a mutilated and indirect democracy, in which elected people elect others, but that we want to keep in the field the most democratic and popular choice, that is, that of presidentialism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u31	Mr President, Minister, Senators, on 6 May - I was still a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - I said that the Government was making a serious mistake to put itself on the line and to demand that the Renzi-Boschi bill be taken, without amendment, as the basic text. And this despite many hours of parliamentary debate and the hearing of authoritative constitutional experts advised to correct it, at least in part. For having said that, and not for having sabotaged the majority, turning it into a minority - which I have never done - I have been removed from the Commission. It's been over two months. The speakers Finocchiaro and Calderoli - that May 6 on opposing positions then took to collaborate, Forza Italia found the agreement with the Democratic Party, the Government blunted the edges, so much so that President Calderoli was able to boast in this Chamber that he had tamed the government dragon and that he had passed, in the document we are discussing here, 11 points out of 12 of his famous agenda, that on May 6 was the stone of the scandal. The rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, has also said that the reform project must "be considered significantly enriched and specified." If that were the case, President Finocchiaro, if Parliament had reaffirmed its centrality and significantly corrected the text of the Government, then even the replacement of Senators Mauro and Mineo - while creating a dangerous precedent, namely that Article 67 of the Constitution does not apply in the Commissions - even that dismissal would have made sense, if - as they say - all the psalms ended up in glory. Unfortunately, President Finocchiaro, citing a political leader you know, one of the majors of the First Republic, Pietro Ingrao, I must say to you today: he did not persuade me. Allow me, for once, to be unsenatorial, as President Zanda always asks us to be. In short, allow me to speak with the same frankness as I did my old job, that of the journalist. The Boschi text had an original sin: it juxtaposed to the reform widely shared (end of the bicameralism parity, trust and budget law only in the House, and instead constitutional guarantees, autonomous and European treaties to the Senate) a second intention: to reduce competences and providence for the autonomy, but at the same time to invite away to Rome and the Senate, the most powerful mayors and the Presidents of the Regions. In times of lean cows for transfers to self-government, this made clear the Government's intention to create a clearing house, to transform this House into a place of direct negotiation. It was too much, I get it. You can write in the Constitution, perhaps you have to write the procedures that preside over the comparison, if you want the negotiation between the two Chambers, but you could not write this improper and invasive market between central government and autonomous. This is what the speakers are proposing to us today as an elected Senate, albeit with a second-degree election. But with what degree of legitimacy? That's the point. It refers to the French system, forgetting that in the Constitution of 1958 it is the President, elected by direct universal suffrage - on this, there is nothing to do, President Gasparri is right - who "guarantees" the national community, and picking up that the great voters of the French Senate are a hundred times more numerous than the regional councillors in Italy. The German example was quoted, forgetting that the Bundestag was elected under the proportional system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and that 42 percent of the votes were not enough for chancellor Angela Merkel to rule alone, without taking into account the historical prestige of the Länder (only Hitler dared to undermine their power in fundamental choices), and not taking into account the fact that the members of the Bundesrat derive their authority from being representatives of their respective governments, and in that case they do not have, and for reason, autonomy of mandate. But there is more: how will the senators be chosen? What does it mean that the (senatorial) seats - I read from the text under discussion - are attributed by virtue of the votes cast and the composition of each council - are attributed? It means that the parties present on the regional council will have to agree on the names; if the party or the majority coalition will choose the only mayor-senator of the Region, then it will have to renounce an advisor-senator in favor of a minor party, to bring back the accounts. Elected senators? No, senators appointed and appointed by parties. It did not go better with the modification - of the modification - of Title V. The rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, is right: the powers of the Senate are increased in the text that we are now debating. Someone - today writes D'Alimonte - even fears that the bicameralism paritarian put out the door will return from the window. But, on the other hand, the rapporteur, Ms Finocchiaro, had to set up stakes so as not to distort the government's system, and she did so by defining exclusive powers of state and regions, to the detriment of competing legislation. It does not work: the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court De Servio predicts that this will continue to increase the constitutional dispute: he wrote it the day before yesterday on "La Stampa". President Finocchiaro, the autonomism written in the Constitution, meanwhile, is different from centralism and federalism, as Region and Municipality have the political power to plan the growth of their territory, to compose, reconcile, influence the entire national legislation. This autonomy has never been realized in our country for twenty years, the first twenty years of the Republic, because imposing forces stood up to defend the central state, heir of the monarchic and fascist state; then because the ordinary Regions were born at the time of the revolt of Reggio-Calabria. Do you remember? The Regions were then invoked - someone will remember the interview given by the mayor Battle of Reggio-Calabria to Giorgio Bocca - as customer factories, public money lenders, intermediated by parasitic bourgeoisies and in some cases even mafias. The regions have had little political autonomy, ladies and gentlemen, and they have spent a lot of money. Today they are perhaps the most affected institutions by the political and moral crisis in the country. It is in the Regions, in the Councils and in the Regional Councils that the parties, unfortunately all, have experienced the degree of the most serious compromise with business. And instead of reforming them, we give them the Senate and we entrust the parties with the task of naming senators. Mr President, I maintain my disagreement about the composition and method of election of the new Senate and will vote on the Chiti amendment, which proposes direct election, by universal and proportional suffrage of the senators, at the same time in which the regional councils are renewed. But the most alarming issue is the apparent disproportion between the number of senators, 100, and that of Members, 630. This in itself renders secondary the role of the new Senate but above all casts a shadow on the election of the President of the Republic and the indispensable autonomy of the Supreme Court. I notice a very serious omission here. It is said: "First the constitutional reform, then the electoral reform, which is ordinary law." But can the constituent legislators pretend to ignore that they want to elect the House under a majority law? Can they pretend not to know that the Italicum, already approved in the House, provides barrier thresholds that cut all parties except three, blocked lists and a majority prize that allows those who obtain 37 percent of the votes cast to count 340 Members out of 630? The accounts are soon done. The quorum to elect the President of the Republic, even at the ninth ballot, is 365 great voters, 340 MPs plus 35 senators, (i.e. 37 percent of the total), making 375. Those who win the elections will not only be sure to arrive at Palazzo Chigi on the same evening, but will know that they can determine the choice of the President of the Republic, who then appoints a third of the constitutional judges, while another third will be appointed by Parliament. Nor can the German Chancellor, the British Premier, nor, to my knowledge, so much the Heads of Government in any country of liberal democracy. Of course, there are amending proposals. I do not think it is decisive that Senator Gotor should have the Italian parliamentarians in Strasbourg vote for the President as well. It is better then that of Senator Casini who proposes, after the first three ballots with the quorum of two thirds, that, for the election of a President guarantor, universal and direct suffrage be used between the first and the second of the non-elected in Parliament. This would allow voters to choose the guarantor and limit the powers of the Prime Minister by virtue of that famous majority prize. In the same way, I hope that we will reflect on the rules concerning referendums, which, apart from the undoubtedly good intentions - I know and value Senator Finocchiaro - have a bitter taste. It would not be possible today the referendum Signs from which it was born - beautiful or ugly - the Second Republic, because that referendum was manipulative. The raising of signatures seems to want to punish an institution of direct democracy, while returning not to delegated democracy as it was in the Constitution, but to a delegated democracy in which parties have too much power. Ladies and gentlemen, despite these two months of meetings and negotiations, the agreement between the majority and one of the minorities, which is important, certainly does not seem to me to be defined, still seems to me to be proud. That is why, and not because some dissidents have stood in the way of obstacles, there is some uncertainty in this House. Courage: we modify, improve, make more consistent with the intentions of the Constituents this troubled birth between government and speakers. The positions of those who have had the courage not to cover themselves behind the party negotiations, not to choose the convenient "yes" to say "yes" then I will amend, but to say clearly the so much on which he agreed and the little but very important on which dysentery are now very well known here and out of here and is already a not decisive success, but always a success. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senators Campanella, Liuzzi and Mario Mauro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u32	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many formal incidents which we have witnessed as an attack on Parliament's role in this parliamentary term and which have tried to limit its role. The most striking was that of Article 138 of the Constitution, not to mention the accentuation of recourse to the decree of urgency, which allowed this, as in previous governments, to empty its task. There is no difference in the questioning of the perfect bicameralism from which this non-reform emanates, whose legal dignity - let me be allowed - is equal to the scientific seriousness of the horoscope and rests on the false conviction that the Government is lacking in effective powers and that dual reading is a waste of time to legislation. In the comparative constitutional debate we find, in the societies evolved and out of the conservative and controlling reasons towards the elective Chamber, the experiences of the federal senate born from the confrontation-contro with a central state. The reference to these experiences in a surreptitious way to justify the overcoming of equal bicameralism has directed this non-reform towards a Senate that has been rightly defined by local territorial institutions, but forcing its legal reference, not only formal, to the true federal states: true because they find in that model historical-political roots. The basic idea of this intervention is profoundly wrong, because it is wrong to believe that political problems can be solved in institutional mechanisms, as if good political practice is automatic consequence of a good standard. The democratic one is a valid recipe if it is functional to the policy that embodies it and the institutional models in which it is articulated only if they reflect pre-existing values in the cultures that generate them. We know that democracy is not an exportable asset. The Constitutions live in the history of peoples: outside the contexts that inspired them are mere exercises of style. Having for too long described our Republican Constitution as an archaeological relic from which to free oneself to renew politics, had the effect of producing the devaluation of the values that existed to it and are affirmed in it, frustrating the path made after the war to our days. What is the point, then, of a hypocritical new Senate of the Republic - for how it was finally defined by the Commission - but to provide the feedback of what the centre has transmitted to its periphery? Our local regions and administrations - as has been reported in various interventions - have now become political and administrative apparatuses that reproduce and indeed propagate the evils of national politics, and yet they had to represent the closeness of the institutions to the people. The new Senate, as you have devised it, is resolved in a secondary articulation of a political-economic system that still has to be solved within it - now constitutional - which has been dragging for a long time: the carcinogenic occupation of each institution by parties that, betraying their original mandate, have now become business committees; a physiologically high public debt that, with the globalization of the financial markets and the simultaneous loss of monetary sovereignty, has become a factor of instability; the loss of weight of our industrial system that, starting from the sale of the state industry, has affected the usual family economic groups, already beneficiaries of copious favors and public provisions; finally, the prevailing corruption in the political-administrative system, which has resulted from generalized misconception in its use in function of control of political consensus (without forgetting the collusion with organized crime that has now conquered some areas of the South of our nation and put deep roots in other parts of it). We have forgotten too easily that our Constitution has actually represented a clear historical crux in the history of Italy, in which Parliament has become central without ending in parliamentarism: it is the expression of a victorious battle, as the Calamandrei reminded us, of the Italian people for freedom and democracy and its contents and its norms cannot ignore the struggle of liberation from Nazi-Fascism. The Constitutional Charter you want to put your hand to and the republican democratic structure that it draws, for this example of constitutionalism for other nations, has been able to combine civil and political rights with social rights, its formal aspect with that substantial, Senator Gasparri, freedom with equality. In the formation of our Charter, the Government of that time, unlike today's one with this reform-con, has not exercised any interference, because it had clearly in its components, forged by the Resistance, that the Government can exercise by delegation the ordinary legislative power, but not in the constituent field. In this, unlike the Albertine Statute which was the promanation of the sovereign, the Republican Government cannot and must not have any initiative, not even preparatory, because the reforming spirit of a Constitutional Charter, on which the founding pact of the Republic is based, must be a free determination of the sovereign people that only in a sovereign constituent assembly can find expression. This vulnus, which is the original sin from which this further intervention on the Constitution is marked, is closely linked to what has become representative democracy in Italy, whose rhythms are marked by electoral appointments rather than by the satisfaction of the legitimate needs of well-being of citizens. And we know that electoral deadlines have now become only the means to consolidate power, personified by the search for re-election by those who have made politics the professional source of satisfaction of interests, personal and clan, according to which oligarchies alien to the democratic concept have been established and which have transformed our democracy into an oligarchy. Where, if not from this, is the dramatic decline of our country, dragged into the abyss by budget deficits caused by customer expenses, destruction of the territory and abnormal exploitation of natural resources, impairment of public health, disposal of common goods to the economic groups of reference and in which an imported financial crisis has found a state now prostrate? It seems to us that this supposed reform - I am sorry, Minister - takes place in the creation of an organ that formalizes the uncomfortable bargaining of power and lottification in which our political-administrative system as a whole, centre and periphery is resolved. Those who, dealing as reformers, want to replace the present Senate with this hybrid "cosa" inspired in a posticcio way - as many interventions have evidenced - to models of other nations, fruit however, those, of different cultures and historical circumstances, do not have a reliability - and I apologize, Minister - superior to a humorer. The local self-governments, which peep out from this constitutional bill, narrate the history of the underground encounter between an insatiable caste and the exploiters attracted by the business of the privatization of public services, under the undisputed ideological superiority of a fake liberalism that emptied the coffers of the State. They are the same local autonomous clientele swamps and political and business relations that continue to give a sign of themselves from the times of Clean Hands until a few days ago, with the scandals Expo and MOSE. They have become the repository of widespread and democratic corruption. (democratic because it allows every fish, from the biggest to the smallest, to make the money in its pond): a corruption politically correct that satisfies everyone, including the mafia. 12:08 a.m. (Followed by Mr Molinari). The underlying reason for a confused legal-ideological construction is the son of that neoliberal reformism, the real legal form of capitalism after the fall of the Berlin Wall, which calls, from its economic-financial sanctuaries, for the European republican democracies to impose, through the institutional restructurings, the reduction of every human relationship to market exchange, in a constant competition of one against another, with the loss of that principle of solidarity and community that is at the basis of Western constitutionalism and only because foreign investors ask us, as has been heard again in this debate on the reform of our Constitution. This reformism, to be seen, has resulted, in this non-reform, in the promise of a compensation with which to injure the evil of the administrative consortia of the local policy, to which a branch of Parliament is given not before making it harmless. The debate on constitutional reforms (and paradoxical is the total absence of society in this, which almost seems disinterested, while those few who have done so have been delegitimized by a media regime), should instead start from the indispensable value of institutional continuity. The aim of an intervention that we also propose (because we, and I personally, are against the perfect bicameralism), should therefore be to maintain institutions in order to adapt them to changing needs and to the development of society in the historical continuity of constitutional values, as well as European legislative sharing. The reference to the history of ethical values, which are pre-existing to the legal values, expressed in our Constitution, is not formal; and it is not useless to remember Moro's intervention (which someone has already mentioned here) that warned that putting hand on Part II of the Charter cannot fail to affect Part I: the turns, in order to be authentic and non-wanderful, as we think is this, must find origin in those moral resources sedimented over time in the human soul. The strong pressure for the rapid approval of the texts presented to the Senate (despite the amendments made in the Commission) raises strong doubts and suspicions in all the free consciences of all political formations (and in this debate we have warned the echoes). We will see how many will have the courage to prove it at the time of the vote. We all know very well that the Constitution belongs to the Italian people, whose historical identity is its foundation. A foundation that speaks of the blood shed by a generation against Nazi-fascist oppression and that must not see ignobly destroyed other generations of Italians in the name of such legal aberrations that you have put in the field, if they will not be corrected at the moment of amendment. The aim - let me say - that we see is quite clear: the subtraction of the people of the right to be involved in a decision-making process that will affect them directly, together with the generations to follow. The strength of the numbers that should lead you to the approval of this project at least do not get you reason to allow the sovereign people to speak through a referendum. The transformation of the Senate into an organism with marginal competences in the legislative process and without popular legitimacy, as you have structured it, combined with an electoral law agreed by two individuals who claim to govern the country in a way not different from how they control their parties, materializes the risk of a manipulation of the popular will. Concerns and risks that increase precisely because of the new electoral law under discussion, in which - as has been reiterated here by several interventions - a majority obtained in the House of Deputies from the most voted list - in a Parliament that became essentially monocameral and independent of the extent of the consensus obtained for the majority prize would lead to a democratically worse result than the objective pursued by the 1953 fraud law, leading to the de facto cancellation of the separation between legislative and executive power. And, above all, I must remind myself - as others have already done - that this is an elected Parliament with procedures declared unconstitutional and whose legitimacy has been questioned by the Constitutional Court itself. A Parliament, therefore, which should have been urgently renewed if this political system were not to be based on abuse and arbitrariness; a Parliament which is not, therefore, provided with the legal authority necessary to amend the Constitutional Charter and is also without moral authority, lost in the folds of rampant corruption. Therefore, only a new Constituent - called by the sovereign people with a proportional law - would have been authorized to use the Charter for its adaptation to the new social needs. We ask Renzi and Berlusconi, and they say it above all to the Italian people, what are these famous agreements at the basis of the Nazarene Pact [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to whose respect in the name of party discipline constantly recall the members of their respective political formations, as certain godparents do. We have now come to the reckoning between those who want to cancel the current parliamentary system and those who believe it to be better (because we want to participate in the moment reformer) but irreplaceable as a garrison of civil progress: on the one hand, there are those who want to perch in its privileges by reducing the space of democratic participation (we have heard the fresco of Senator Chiti), and, on the other, there are those who want to strengthen the bond between citizens and representative institutions to meet the legitimate needs of a community. The subtle emphasis on the theme of governance, which attempts to attribute to the excessive democratic nature of the institutional systems the origin of the socio-economic crisis (which echoes so much the "liberate" of the anti-fascist constitutions" (JP Morgan's diktat), wants to replace the democratic criterion with the investiture of a head of the executive with powers of a monarchical nature: but this is not our Constitution, this is not the State we want. Just at a time when the people suffer from an economic crisis that is eroding trust in the institutions, do not hope to escape from your responsibilities, raising ever higher walls where to repair you. History has shown that the walls of the Bastille, albeit tall and strong, cannot keep the people out: and the people are knocking ever louder at your gates. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u35	Mr President, Herodotus, 400 years before Christ, wrote that the luck or misfortune of a people may depend on the Constitution in force in a country. Here we are, in these days, deciding the luck or misfortune of this people. It is true that the Constitution is not untouchable, it is true that it can be reformed, but to reform it should be an enlightened legislator, capable of maintaining a perfect balance between legislative, executive and judicial powers, the pillar of every good Constitution. The projects you improperly call institutional reform are, in fact, something very different. As an Italian language teacher, I would like to draw attention to the meaning of the word "reform". "Reform" is something that has the objective of transforming by giving a different and better form, but in this House the institutions are transforming into something less solid, less representative, less balanced, less guaranteed by the weights and counterweights provided by our constituent Fathers. The legislative function entrusted to the Chamber of Deputies alone and the birth of the new Senate, which accentuates the centrality of the Regions in the democratic system, would lead to the change of the Constitution with the modification of the balances in favour of the executive power, ergo, of the Government; and to the disintegration - in the worst case scenario - of the legislative power of the Parliament. Angelo Panebianco on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), about the new Senate, exalts the concentration of government power, taken away from the Regions, eliminating the dispersion that occurred with the reform of Title V of the Constitution. And instead, in our opinion, the exact opposite could be verified, because the Regions, controlling the Senate through their elected appointed (subline: appointed), will raise with the Central State a plethora of disputes before the Constitutional Court. Memory exercise. Giuliano Vassalli, criticizing the Federal Senate of 2003, identical to today's, said that "in this system lies the danger of a serious legislative stasis: a reform to increase conflicts. While democracy's task is to avoid conflicts, to compose and to sedate them. And again, memory exercise. In 2004, then Mr Giorgio Napolitano said: "It will not be easy to fight for the rejection of the constitutional reform of the centre-right." What's the reason for a change of heart today? What high end moves our Head of State to push reforms and to push for acceleration, failing one of its fundamental functions, namely that of guaranteeing our democracy through the guarantee of the principles expressed in our Constitution? [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] Not only that: it pushes the reforms made at the hands of a criminal who insists on dreaming of being able to return to the head of a future government of this nation. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]] In judging the goodness of the reform, we must start from a fundamental fact, which is often forgotten: the historical and political context in which change takes place. In Italy we have had for over thirty years governments led by philo-mafios, by pro-fascist exversaries or by corrupt tax evaders, who have tried several times to overturn the Constitution and delegitimize the Senate. And here we get to the double reading, which seems to be a problem. Memory exercise. Despite the double reading of the Chamber and Senate, the various Governments produced a multitude of laws ad personam simply shameful: the Alfano praise, the Schifani praise, the Cirielli law to save Silvio from the trials, the laws to eliminate the fake in the budget, the Giudicandrea law, launched by Prime Minister Andreotti (good soul) and the head of the Cossiga State in February 1992, to extend by two years the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome and allow him to dismiss the trial on Gladio. If all this has been possible with the double reading, it is evident the danger of the Senate reform, which wants to remove the double reading. And let us remember that bad politicians often return; in these classrooms we have some fine examples. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]] Therefore, while you are attacking our already vicious parliamentary democracy by weakening bicameralism (let's remember: only democratic garrison against authoritarian drifts and concentrations of power), you also have the nerve (and you had it in the electoral campaign) to wave before the voters the fears of totalitarianism, fanaticism and intolerance, but be careful not to say that the monocameral systems are the most widespread among totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini]] and look at you well from saying that today a political force that you still insist on claiming anti-politics is the only one, together with a few other conscientious colleagues, to defend our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]] But let us return to the Senate, to your Senate of the Regions, composed of appointed, therefore in contrast to Article 1 of our Constitution, the fundamental article, which states that sovereignty belongs to the people. Those appointed, in the tangle of competences, would also have the legislative function with the Chamber in the matter of revision of the Constitution and other constitutional laws. Then a Senate of appointed knights, invested, would have the power to legislate in matters that affect the principles of guarantee, including the independence of the judiciary, the right to decent work, the right to study, the right to health, the right to freedom, the right to information, the equality of citizens in access to elected offices! Again (and here we come to the alleged greater efficiency of monocameralism) it would be a Senate of councilors and mayors, then a Senate to intermittent, because it consists of people who can be part of Junta that fall or of Junta that arrive at the natural conclusion of its legislature: you must explain to me how intermittency combines with efficiency. Then there is the question whether this reform does not serve to paralyze the magistrates who investigate 17 of the 20 Regional Councils, bringing out episodes of corruption for the robberies on public refunds, for example. And what does the President of the Republic think about this upheaval of the Constitution and the blatant violation of the principle that the law is the same for all and the upheaval of the balance of powers? Moreover, it is not clear why a regional councillor or elected mayor without immunity should receive it after the appointment as senator, when there is no longer the excuse for popular investiture. Instead, we arrive at the waste of time. That the Senate would waste precious time, it is a total lie. Who said that? Beppe Grillo? No, Eugenio Scalfari, who goes on to say: The official data of the Senate office shows that the approval of an ordinary law takes place on average in 53 days. The decree of urgency in 46 days and financial laws in 88 days. They are not the fault of bicameralism, but of ministerial bureaucracy, delays. In fact, we have seen that Parliament's work has been flooded over the past year and that it is not the perfect bicameralism, but it is the lack of method, it is a regulation to be reformed, yes, and finally, alas, the struggle to divide principals and prebends. This is what is often the case during the examination of the measures, and that is why they are often flooded, because extra-parliamentary agreements must be reached, linked to the rules contained in those measures. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]] On the contrary (and also here we do a memory exercise), to approve the social butchery of the Fornero reform on pensions, it was enough just 16 days, counted from the approval in the Council of Ministers of 6 December 2011 until 22 December of the same year, when Chamber and Senate fired in record time the measure that delivered thousands of people and families to limbo of exodates. Go ask them if the Senate is slow! These are perspectives. That the Senate is slow, so it's a perspective, it's not the absolute truth. Tell the families of soldiers who risk their lives abroad for anti-institutional military missions, however, that you find the time and the way to refinance punctually and in record time passing also through the Senate, as happened with the decree-law of 28 December 2012, approved on 22 January of the following year. Because the same speed does not apply also to interventions on school, on health, on what remains of the social state [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini]] , on the third sector, on volunteering, on civil service, on the confiscation of property to the mafia, on the defense of the environment and of the territory and our artistic-cultural heritage, true resource of this country? Why should we put in the abstract on an institution the slowness, failure and loss of time that are instead your concrete and personal political, historical and moral responsibility? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]] In your garden of Eden, where you soothe to protect immunity while the outside world fights against a structural economic crisis, you want to celebrate the marriage between an electoral law dictated by a criminal authorized to put vetoes on the legislative process, and a reform of the Senate that increasingly alienates representatives. The chronicles of these hours tell us that in the last year another percentage point of the country has collapsed below the threshold of absolute poverty, and those who live like me in a popular neighborhood know what I am saying. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Nevertheless, the most important thing for you is to reform the Senate, as if the Upper House of our Parliament were a problem, an obstacle, a ball to the foot, a brake on the legislative process, and not a legitimate and legitimate (I will not tire of repeating it) institutional garrison provided for by our Constitution, which, for a strange irony - I remember once again - today is politically defended by what you called anti-politics yesterday. If your projects go into port, the citizen will be able to seek his representation in the Senate only by relying on a tragicomic talent show, a tragicomical "X Factor" where the regional assemblies will be teleguided by the party secretariats; but, unlike the talent shows, the citizens will not even have the televote, which instead is guaranteed to the viewers (obviously the viewers enjoy some rights more than the citizens). In your idea of a modern and efficient state machine, therefore, voters will no longer be able to point out their senators, but will have to passively attend the selections of those lucky few among more than 8,000 mayors who will be called to represent their citizens even in the Senate. Other than recovering the slice of abstentionist electorate: you are sticking a dagger into the open plague, widening the already enormous abyss that separates representatives from representatives. But, of course, it is not the abstentionism that worries you, nor is it the supposed slowness of a branch of Parliament that frightens you. What it does to you and to shudder is the possibility of continuing to have a Senate elected by the people with preference votes, which would remove from your hands the democratic toy that you are having fun disassembling, reassembling and dismantling as if the institutions were yours and not public thing. You are using these reforms, as one of my colleagues has already said, as weapons of mass distraction, to distract a country that does not deserve to waste time, money and opportunities with your institutional alchemies, but waits for concrete solutions to the challenges that the great masses of students, unemployed exodus, precarious, immigrants and sick, to whom you no longer know how to guarantee the right to study, to work, to pension, to the future, to integration and to health. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] A country that deserves to have an anti-corruption law worthy of a civil country in which honesty reigns as a founding value and that - it is good not to forget it in times of crisis - would save us every year about 60 billion euros. This is what Europe is asking for, not for constitutional reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] ! A country that deserves a law on conflict of interests worthy of a country in which the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens in access to elected positions is guaranteed and not drowned in the sea of corruption: this is what Europe asks of us! A country to pay taxes becomes a source of civil pride, because it is fair and paid by everyone and paid for by efficient services: this is what Europe asks of us! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] He asks us to take away the black shirt of tax evasion that costs us 180 billion euros a year. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A country in which the fight against privileges is serious and in which a planned, far-sighted economic policy is developed that solves the problem of the hemorrhaging of our best brains; that restores dignity to its citizens by providing them with a job; that rekindles the eyes of young guardians of potential suffocated by the lack of prospects. This may not be the case in Europe, but we citizens are asking for it loudly! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] The microphone is flashing, so I have a few minutes left. So, before I hand over my speech to the Presidency, which still contains a lot of considerations, I conclude by giving you a thought and an invitation. With regard to reflection, why do we always need a leader in times of crisis? Why, on the contrary, do we not take an evolutionary step forward as a people and let our collective intelligence reign, allowing it to express itself through honest and competent representations? Why don't we get out of this Peter Pan national syndrome? Finally, I greet you with an invitation. Piero Calamandrei has been mentioned here several times. In his address to the young people, at the Humanitarian Society in Milan, on January 26, 1955, he said: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity, go there, or young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born. I invite you, then, to go to the circles of the elders, or to any other place where you can converse with someone who was there at that time, as an adult or as a child, to remind you of those facts. When you return to these classrooms to vote, keep the memory of those stories in your heart. I am convinced that, with that memory in our hearts, we will all vote in the right way. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and the Senators Albano and Barozzino Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u36	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the integration to your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the corridors of these buildings I have heard that the most difficult interventions are those which must be carried out in favour of reform, as if those who vote in this direction were a silly servant or do not do so with conviction. I would like to say straight away that I am in favour of this reform and I will vote for it with conviction, and I now explain the reasons for it. Meanwhile, the fact that emerges from the debate is that we all agree on the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism. This is an important objective, which has been pursued for a long time without results. Its failure to implement it is the main gap contained in the 2001 constitutional reform, when the interests of the so-called territorial institutions were preferred to enter the parliamentary circuit, thus leaving a series of unresolved issues, and in fact determining the start of an involutional spiral, with inevitable social and economic consequences that now, as soon as possible and without hesitation, we are called to correct. The failures of our abnormal bicameralism are under everyone's eyes. When I often hear many colleagues calling for dissenting votes to obey their conscience, I wonder if we should not obey our conscience at this moment, feeling part of a system that surely demeans our own conscience. The failures of the perfect bicameralism, of this improper mechanism all Italian, are many. It has to be blamed for the malfunctioning of our democratic system, which has often made it impossible to form majorities corresponding to the will of the electoral citizens, which has weakened Parliament's authority and centrality, which has contributed to the bad bill of laws, often indecipherable, which has led to exasperating legislative delays, which has caused excessive recourse to the vote of confidence. The initiative taken by the Government, in my opinion, must therefore be supported with conviction, in order to overcome a serious delay, which has helped to determine the political and institutional crisis of the system that characterizes the Italian political framework. Of course, at the first reading of the basic text proposed by the Government in the Commission each of us had the opportunity to express doubts and to express doubts, as there were no lack of elements of confusion and contradiction. The text lacked, above all, clarity on the basic model towards which to converge, both with regard to the Senate, for which three models of second chamber were confused - that of guarantees, that of competences and autonomy - with elements of one or the other inserted with little logical coherence, and on the therapy to be practiced for Title V, the part of the most suffering Constitution, where the administered medicine was an excess of centralism that could create new and serious damage to the system. The careful work carried out in the Commission, both by the rapporteurs - to whom we thank for the contribution of competences and, above all, for a secular and moderate approach in the development of the debate - and by the members who have been able to intervene with composure, determination and ability to deepen, has certainly improved the text, making it digestible, correcting some proposals that offered the side to audience criticism, weakening in fact the supporting structure of the bill. I hope that the work of this House will be able to improve the text again, in the hope, as it seems, that it will be free from ideological prejudices and that it will not be an opportunity for a reckoning within the parties, both by majority and by opposition. The synthesis has in fact been found between two different and opposite needs, that of unity and that of the autonomy, avoiding the division of competences between different territorial authorities. This, not only to avoid conflicts, but to make it possible to identify responsibilities, without which neither the administration nor the politics work. The model of the Senate of the Autonomies balances the regional representation, holder of the legislative power, that must find an adequate place of connection at national level with the institute of the State-Regions Conference, certainly insufficient, dated and destined to be overcome. It is not, therefore, as has been said and written, to cancel the functions of the Senate, but to assign to it the role that is precisely in a decentralised state like ours. It is an ambitious project, which respects the autonomy of the regions and territorial authorities and, at the same time, provides tools for linking localistic interests and the interest of the nation. Otherwise, the risk of disputes and conflicts of jurisdiction would always be lurking, generating constitutional litigation and legal uncertainty. As for Title V, a functional clause is inserted in order to allow greater control of the State over the simplification processes; the scope of regional competences is better defined and, moreover, we return to talking about the attribution of particular forms of autonomy, thus overcoming the concept of mere delegation. Particularly appreciated by the political side that I represent is the identification of cost and demand benchmarks, commonly referred to as standard costs and requirements, which is hoped to mark the end of measures that favour the non-virtuoso. For a Sicilian like me, who on this ground must admit obvious negligences of the governments that have succeeded to the leader of the island, it is a beautiful admission of responsibility. It is therefore an important shift in powers that is being carried out by recovering the presence of territorial communities in one of the Houses of Parliament, shifting the centre of gravity from the Constitutional Court to the National Parliament. If this connection were to be eliminated, we would run the risk of creating a second Chamber which, in search of guarantees and balances from the first, retraces backwards the evolution of the bicameral system, and of pushing the Regions, in an attempt to strengthen and guarantee their autonomy, in search of a little flexible separation of materials, repeating the pernicious conflict of which we are frankly tired. It should also be added that the same crisis of legitimacy of Parliament, which has been denounced by several parties, could be overcome through a more direct confrontation between Government and Parliament in a single political chamber, avoiding the dispersion of popular sovereignty in several places of the same, thus restoring prestige and authority to elected representatives. We believe that this is an obligatory step to give efficiency to the institutional system, which must necessarily precede the electoral law, which cannot be voted unless it is known within which constitutional innovation of the form of the House and Senate will have to be applied. We have no concern today to vote on what many call our political suicide, if this will, as is common opinion, help to innovate and make the state machine more streamlined and efficient, as well as reduce its operating costs. We do so in the knowledge that this is not the perfect reform - I have no illusions about the perfect forms, sometimes the search for perfection can become an easy alibi to feed political disagreements - but with the deep conviction that the failure to share some aspects of the proposal, which are and are absolutely legitimate, cannot be an obstacle to the approval of a historical reform that I hope to help approve. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u39	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u40	Mr President, the Constitutions are as old as people, but they can rejuvenate, unlike people. Each reform serves to project a text, son of another season in history, so that it continues to reflect the spirit of time. But what is the spirit of today's time? Is it the European fear of a future where we risk no longer finding the certainties acquired in so many years of growth and continuous development, obtained also thanks to a robust democratic system or is it rather the indifference and ignorance of the ruling classes that, many times in history, have allowed democracies to degenerate? In the text proposed by the Government and in the fruitful work of the Commission - I thank the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli for the good work done on behalf of all - there is, however, a clear narrowing of popular sovereignty. In fact, it produces the opposite of things to do when a democracy needs a new organization to overcome its inevitable plastering, encrusting: the plastering of rites and the delays of a perfect bicameralism that we have long, in many, considered outdated and no longer necessary. But this "senatellum" or "senaticchio", as Senator Gasparri defined it first in his beautiful intervention, is the result of an institutional illiteracy that produces reforms to tear and patch up, and that instead of cutting bureaucracy, listening to the request of the Italians, restricts democracy; and this is not requested by the Italians. In fact, this will be the only effect produced by obsessive anxiety that crosses the pages of the proposal before the House to understand how to limit the choice of citizens. Therefore, no to universal suffrage, no (or, less and less possible) to the referendary initiative typical of modern and mature democracies, no to the popular initiative on laws, which is made even more difficult. Paletti contenitive to the possible democracy, as if in these classrooms the emergency was represented by the disturbance of having to examine laws of popular initiative that in my memory as a parliamentarians for eight years in this Senate I cannot find. Perhaps many of our fellow Members who have been here for 20 years will be able to help us remember how many popular initiatives have taken place on the legislative work we have examined. Along this obsession we arrive at the post-work of the regional councillors and mayors, defined jokingly by our President Berlusconi, who also puts so much hope in this reform. It is the modern version of that House, deaf and gray (and I do not follow the sentence), but there is no trace of that modern democracy so longed for by the right center that it has always founded on direct election (starting from that of the Head of State) the popular mandate that legitimizes the choices that make democracies strong. If we have always proposed the direct election of the President of the Republic as we may not agree on the direct election for a Senate to which important functions are assigned [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna]] , thanks to the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Constitutional Laws and the issues of freedom and civil rights? Central themes for the lives of the citizens on whom it is called to legislate a bureaucratic body instead appointed to the Regional Councils! There's enough to shake your consciences. But it should suffice to remind us of the recent history of Italian political decline, one of the causes of which is that of the assembly of sixty-eighty memory and its implicit leaderism that replaces democratically regulated institutions and moves the place of decisions in party assemblies. In that unstoppable decline the parties have been dead for a long time, but the assemblies, including the television ones, have remained, where there are no guarantees of participation, those of minorities and, less yet, the demands of control, but where it is natural, it is legitimate that the calculation on contingent political utility prevails. But reforms are not about contingent political usefulness, they are about the breath of the future. On the basis of this structure today, in the twisting of the party system, that system caresses anti-parliamentaryism. Now it falls on the Senate, scapegoat - as it has already happened for the Provinces - of collective ills, and entrusts to the demiurge of turn the saving possibility of changing everything in order to change nothing, as it is in the best Italian tradition. In this change nothing is the missed opportunity for a reform that, together with the economic ones (by far the most urgent), could have recovered faulty delays, in that European framework that requires, by the admission of all, stronger democratic processes to guarantee the peoples. We demand more democracy from the Europe of technocracy, but we will not be credible if that very democracy which we ask of them is not the basis of the right legitimacy to the choices of our governments and if we do not defend in universal suffrage the founding principle of democracy of the countries that have struggled to build Europe, those same countries that will be crossed by inevitable pushes and counter-pushed of separatism (as could happen in the coming months already with the cases of Scotland and Catalonia). I feel the risk, like so many of us, of the spread of insidious fragmentations for the European process and the strengthening of Europe (and I, who come from Veneto, know what I am talking about, Mr President). But we could keep the peoples and their legitimate autonomy together if we strengthened the democratic process on fundamental choices, those which are truly fundamental, such as fiscal compact or as strict budgetary rules that risk, if they are not absorbed and shared by the people's will, to crush in the economic crisis that social cohesion on which Europe should be founded that wants to have a future, as Italy must have it. I am also opposed, Mr Gasparri, to the failure of a possible reform, but I ask a reform first of all to be fair to the Italians and above all to allow them freedom of judgment and freedom of vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Buemi and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are listening to us, I will focus on the reform of Title V and I will say a few words about the reform of the Senate, because I find myself in so many speeches that have preceded me. In particular, I would like to stress that, in my opinion, the main problem with this reform is that it prefigures and ratifies man only in command, a figure totally alien to both our DNA and the current constitutional order, which instead envisages the figure of the President of the Council as a primus interpare. I speak of ratification because it is undeniable, we do not hide it, that especially in the last twenty years the governments led by Berlusconi, but also those led by the center-left, have always tried, succeeding, to move the bar from parliamentary democracy to a situation in which there is only one man in command. This was done by abusing those constitutional instruments that the constituent Fathers had provided in the Constitution for special and special occasions, such as the decree of urgency, the legislative power of the Government, the use of delegated laws or the question of trust for the approval of measures in the Chamber. I think I have an open mind enough to be able to discuss everything, even any reforms that provide for one man only in command, but I allow myself to say quietly and quietly that in countries where this model exists, that is, in the presidential systems, there are also all those burdens and counterweights, about which Senator Chiti also spoke, which essentially limit the powers of man only to command and put them back in the beehive of a fully democratic situation. Let us think, for example, of the President of the United States, that commander in chief, not only military but also political, which is found in a fully federal state, where there are legislative assemblies that provide for elections in the medium term (of which Senator Chiti has always spoken) and which instead are not foreseen in this reform. That is where the danger lies for the democracy of this reform and where all the problems highlighted so far lie: the direct or indirect election of the Senate is closely linked to this because, in fact, providing for an indirect election some of those counterweights that make a presidential system a true democracy are lacking. This is not the case in this reform. It is the danger here. Let me now turn to the reform of Title V. One of the most important parts of the reform of Title V concerns the division of competences between the State and the Regions, in the various areas on which I would like to focus with particular references in the field of education, which fall within the competence of the 7th Permanent Commission of which I am honoured to be a member. The report to the draft law highlights that one of the aims of the reform is to ensure a preventive settlement of possible conflicts between the interests of each level of government, assuming as a paradigm reference a renewed set of competences, revised also on the basis of a criterion of clear simplification. This choice, emphasizes the report, is considered by the Government the only one now practicable to resolve the known issues underlying the legal uncertainty and conflict, descended from Article 117 of the Constitution as reformed in 2001. What does the explanatory report of the bill refer to in this passage? What is this conflict? Well, I'm trying to give an explanation by taking a bit of a picture of the situation. The division between the existing competences has been extrinsic in the now famous triptych subjects of exclusive state competence, subjects of concurrent competence and subjects of exclusive regional competence. In particular, the areas of shared competence are further divided between those relating to the fundamental principles and the remaining ones. The complexity and often nebulae of the definitions of the current article have required the use of the Constitutional Court or statements of the Council of State, a constant and time-consuming recourse to these supreme bodies, in particular between 2004 and 2012, whose effects have been strongly felt in many areas of civil society. Here comes the constitutional reform of 2014: the reform Renzi-Boschi, as amended in the referent from the 1st Senate Commission. The shared competence is removed from the proposed reform: most of the subjects are - mostly with new formulations and characterizations - attributed to the state competence, others are lost and would therefore become (and I stress the conditional) attributable to the regional competence. Several subjects are attributed to the State - as stated by the head office - as general and common provisions (attention to this diction) which, replacing the general rules to which the initial text refers, are now used instead of the existing category of fundamental principles. There is an atmosphere of general optimism pervading the country! Finally it simplifies, here is the "simplification net" that the Government speaks of in the illustrious report, here are the reforms we needed! Never more contentious, because in the aftermath of the reform, ladies and gentlemen, it will be immediately clear who has to do what. But is that really true? Is this really the only viable choice to resolve the conflict that the Government is talking about? Not at all. Let's see what we find out by reading the reading sheets drawn up by the Study Service on Article 30 of this reform. Article 30 is what rewrites Article 117 of the Constitution, which regulates matters of state and regional competence, among other things the subject of amendment 26,1000 of the rapporteurs, to which my speech is therefore mainly addressed. I thank Senator Calderoli here. I quote from the dossier of the Study Service: It does not seem easy to identify exactly the relationship between those - the general and common provisions - these, the fundamental principles, and the fact that the nature of the fundamental principles has already considerably engaged constitutional jurisprudence (the category was already present in the constitutional text of 1948) - let alone! - General rules and fundamental principles already exist, in the current constitutional text, in the field of education, while the "general and common provisions" are unprecedented. It could therefore be feared that the new semantic structure could give rise, at least in the initial phase, to a new and not marginal definitory commitment by the Constitutional Court on an entirely secondary aspect of the new distribution plant. Well, the text is already clear enough, it is written in Italian, but for those who have not yet understood, I do this time a work of simplification, this yes, real. After tiringly, and I stress laboriously, a consolidated case-law had been reached concerning the definition of what are general rules and fundamental principles, here is the introduction of the new terminology of general and common provisions. What, then, does it mean when it is said that a new and not marginal definitory commitment by the Constitutional Court is needed? Very simple: it means that no one knows what the general and common provisions are. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group]] Therefore no one knows what are the competences of exclusive state relevance and, consequently, those of exclusive regional competence. Going forward in the examination of the infamous article 30 of this reform, there are also other very interesting gems, proof of the total regulatory confusion that will arise after the promulgation of this reform, if it remains unchanged, of course. I am still quoting from the dossier of the Study Service: With regard to the term "general and common provisions," it may be noted that: 1. the diction is such as not to deny, at first reading, the attraction in the regional competence of the party not related to the "general and common provisions" of the matter under consideration. What does that mean? That not only the definition of general and common provision is ambiguous, but that moreover for that part of the competence not included among them, will presumably remain a fundamental ambiguity which must be further regulated, as indeed has been attempted to do later. The dossier continues :........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The diction appears unpublished and deprives - at least in its literal wording - of the elaboration by the constitutional jurisprudence, which has, on the other hand, long elaborated Once again no one knows what the general and common provisions are. Finally, the dossier points out, as a third point, that it is not easy to identify exactly the difference between the three categories of basic principles, general rules and general and common provisions. I would point out, among other things, that the general rules are present in the current Constitution, and still will be, in Article 33, which states that the Republic lays down general rules on education. Therefore, general rules and common provisions will continue to coexist, increasing confusion. At this point in my speech, however, dear colleagues, rapporteurs and representatives of the Government, the citizens who are following us may think that the issues I am raising concern only constitutionalists and lovers of legislative terminology, who are, as it were, quisquilies and tweezers, something that you can liquidate without anyone noticing. After all, if the Constitutional Court has taken eight years to define the disputes arising from the 2001 reform, no one has noticed and will be able to spend eight more years to define what is meant by general and common provisions. That is a very serious mistake, ladies and gentlemen, a very serious mistake! To demonstrate this, I will refer to a specific question concerning education, but it certainly applies to all other areas in which litigation has produced its nefarious effects. We therefore come to the substance of the division of competences in the field of education and, more specifically, the long-standing problem of the size of schools. In the last two years we have seen a considerable reduction in the number of plexuses and autonomous schools: only in 2012 have they been cancelled illegitimately - and now we will see why illegitimately - 1,567 administrative offices (i.e. autonomous schools) of educational circles, inclusive and middle schools. In the year that is being concluded, with Ministerial Decree No. 573 of 2013 were assigned only 8,047 executives and DSGA to direct and administer 57,216 school complexes, about 2,100 less than the academic year 2011-2012, when they were 10,211 (the official data is contained in the decree of the MIUR. Why did this happen, ladies and gentlemen? Because in 2011 there was a state rule (in particular the Decree-Law No 98) which, in the name of the containment of expenditure, provided for parameters for the sizing of schools much more restrictive than the legislation previously in force, i.e. that the autonomous schools must have a minimum of 1,000 pupils, while the previous rule spoke of a much lower minimum. Too bad, however, that the Constitutional Court, through the judgment n. 147 of 2012 (just one of the most recent that intervenes on the conflictuality of the division of competences), has considered constitutionally illegitimate article 19, paragraph 4, of the aforementioned decree-law 98 of 2011, precisely in the part that fixed the obligation of amalgamation in institutions including the schools of childhood, elementary and middle, precisely those that, in order to acquire autonomy, should have been constituted with at least 1.000 pupils. It is, as the Constitutional Court explains, a detailed rule that, with the aim of reducing public expenditure, however, intervenes on a subject, education, which, according to Article 117 Constitution, is the subject of concurrent legislative competence between State and Region. A detailed intervention - the Constitutional Court always explains to us - by the State, in a sphere (that of sizing) that, however, must remain entrusted to the regional competence. It took more than ten years to settle this matter! So what? And so all the combinations are illegitimate! Think: 1,567 seats (schools) cancelled, 2,100 between executives and DSGA abolished and all this because it was not clear to the legislator, before the intervention of the Constitutional Court, what the division of competences was! If it had been clear from the outset, these combinations could never have been arranged. Now, how do you get back? Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear representatives of the Government and rapporteurs, do you still believe that we are talking about heresquilies? Pintillaccher? Do you still believe that we are talking about abstract issues that are far from the daily lives of citizens and families? Eh, no! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear rapporteurs and representatives of the Government, that is why we have a duty here, in this House, to prevent any ambiguity and criticality which will be reflected in a burning - and I stress burning - way in the lives of school workers, pupils and their families, already unfairly tested by a policy of reducing spending (and education is not the only area in which this new confusing diction is applied, there are many others). Here, dear rapporteurs and representatives of the Government, at this point I invite you and strongly urge you to take seriously all those amendments that seek to put a stop to and limit this regulatory confusion that will arise from the reform of Title V. I do not want to deny the work done in the Commission. I do not want to deny those few improvements made by colleagues with work in the Commission, but this reform, dear rapporteurs and dear representatives of the Government, as it is written now is not yet admissible by us and by the country all. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u44	Illustrated President, colleagues, illustrious President of the Council, members of the Executive, the present proposal for reform of the institutions that is intended to impose on the country is the sad confirmation of the absolute inadequacy of this Government to offer the country a slightest hope of getting out of the crisis in which the majority parties themselves have caused it to sink. Once again, in all its embarrassment, the total inability of the Government to address the problems of reality in concrete terms is shown. The 5 Star Movement's decisive intervention was necessary to remind politics of what society already knows very well: that is that the problem of the country is not given by the system of election of the Senators of the Republic, but by how to find work for young people and assure all citizens the right to dream of a better life, to be able to study, to find a job, to put on a family. After all, what could be expected from a class of young old people, who grew up in the illusion that climbing to party secretariats was the solution to every problem? Who believes that the economy is represented by the gilded and fake world of finance, except then to have to note the inability to stem the disastrous state of public debt, the efficiency of services and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens? This government, apart from the fictions and propaganda of the media, is unarmed in the face of growing youth unemployment and the now structural crisis in the world of work. Recent data on poverty is a terrible warning for all of us. In this context, it is thought that we can deceive the citizens, deceiving them that their problems will be solved by a package of institutional reforms which, indeed, will do nothing. The Senate will not be abolished, and it will continue to represent a huge cost to the country. Emoluments will turn into expense refunds and costs will only increase. All this, however, has the perverse effect of weakening democracy, i.e. the possibility for citizens to be represented by directly elected persons. There will therefore be a Senate full of anonymous bureaucrats, who will respond to the usual party secretariats and who will not have to give account to the citizens of their work. A real monstrosity, typical of a political class that behind the young age of some of its new exponent, hides the vices of an old and hypocritical politics. Rationalising costs and returning political commitment to normal are processes that do not require costly institutional reforms. The 5 Star Movement has already done so in a few months, demonstrating how in life, and therefore also in politics, a bit of good will and moral integrity is sufficient to try to reverse the course and initiate processes of change useful for the development of the country and for the common development. It seems superfluous to recall the historical origin of the model of perfect bicameralism that we want to destroy today. Here too there is the great deception of this policy towards the country. The laws demand meditated and serious processes of formulation because they must last over time and really resolve the problems of citizens. For a long time, however, every government has deceived the country with complex and costly reform processes that, systematically, do not have time to enter into force and then be cancelled after a short time. The development and growth of Italy cannot be entrusted to frantic, superficial and often harmful legislation. It is time to understand that each of us, with our own behavior, must take responsibility for change. We should reduce the amount of legislation to improve its quality. We should take responsibility for improving the regulatory process not so much on time, but above all on quality. The rationalization of procedures can be entrusted to the simple modification of the Regulations and does not require destructive interventions of our Constitution, weakening or even canceling fundamental safeguards of democracy and freedom, such as the direct election of parliamentarians and the system of bicameralism, which allows to avoid handstrokes to a dictatorial and false majority like the current one. As many illustrious colleagues have always said, defenders of freedom and democracy, today they bow their heads to the arrogance of a government and its President-in-Office of the Council. The hope of a small chair, the preservation of privileges, hypocrisy and lack of courage mark an unworthy stage in our parliamentary history. Those who were painted as dangerous revolutionaries are today the only defenders of freedom and democracy in our country. It is we of the 5 Star Movement, the supposed amateurs of politics, here today, who proudly deny our consent and our adherence to a real suicide of democracy in Italy. Italy does not need the Government of Renzi and its gang of young old shop friends. We of the 5 Star Movement are certain that Italy needs a new political class, "normal" that is ready, with integrity, courage and a sense of responsibility to build a new country, attentive to the needs of the weakest and ready to enhance the desire for happiness of their young people. The 5 Star Movement will continue to defend everyone's right to dream of a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u45	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-280.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.17 p.m.
