ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.42 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 16 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,44 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u4	He asked to intervene, and exceptionally, since it is the emergency in Liguria, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me if I echo once again in this House the desperate cry of sorrow that comes from my land, Liguria, once again wounded by extraordinary weather events, which for many, too many years, have scourged it. There is no, alas, corner of this wonderful territory, precious and at the same time fragile, that has not suffered damage. Are water bombs or uninterrupted rains, determine once again losses of human lives, landslides, landslides flooding and also the modification itself of the traditional morphology of its territory. The latest data tells us that more than 150 landslides have occurred, that they have interrupted several railway and road lines, causing the isolation of numerous inhabited centers, and that more than 200 have been the evacuated people, with an approximate estimate of the damages pairs to 100 million euros. My intervention is primarily in support of the request made to the Government by the Liguria Region to recognize as soon as possible the state of national emergency, like Emilia and Tuscany, in order to allow civil protection and municipalities to bring the situation back to normal in a short time. This region has become its own despite a real map of litmusol, because what happens here several times a year happens, even if not with the same frequency, in almost the whole country. I have repeatedly explained, even in this House, the causes of all this, which are known to most people. It is now clear that climate change is no longer a future forecast, but a fact, and it has changed what was once called with pride and distinctive sentiment the Mediterranean climate, characteristic of our country, with the harmonious alternation of seasons, temperatures, rain and sun. Climate change, together with uncontrolled cementification, the abandonment of the territory and the lack of care of the slopes, are the main causes of the hydrogeological failure of Italy, and all this is largely attributable to human activity. How many victims do we count this year too! The image of the train suspended on the sea could become the emblem of yet another tragedy. Luckily it wasn't, but that terrace suspended on the railway line shouldn't have been there. I believe it is time for a collective assumption of responsibility. The key word is prevention, which must enter our heads and finally translate into concrete acts. We have a duty and a duty to put an end to this. The responsibility will fall on us if we remain inert. We have discussed and voted on motions and the government has decreed very important sector measures. It is now up to us to build a framework legislative framework in the areas that must be the subject of effective dialogue and effective support policies and that, among other things, will implement immediately the extraordinary plan for the protection of soil that had put in place up to EUR 2.5 billion between state funds and regional co-financing. It is also necessary to study assumptions for access to European funds, as well as to set up a national soil protection fund, including the Deposit and Loan Fund. The current situation of fragmentation of territorial protection policies must be overcome, not only through the simplification of governance, but also through greater involvement of local authorities, Provinces and Regions. The involvement of young people, workers, beneficiaries of social shock absorbers, social associations and cooperatives operating in prisons (as Senator Casson recalled) and in CARA should also be envisaged. The Democratic Party calls for this to be included in the core points of the coalition pact that the Government is preparing in these hours. When you deal with these matters, you always risk falling victim to rhetoric, my fellow senators, but I assure you that this is not the case. We must stop hiding behind the magic formula of lack of resources. We have often witnessed that when there is a political will, important results can be achieved. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, make this effort to provide the Italians with a certain framework of reference. Apparently as a Senate we should be close to a redefinition in all senses of role and function. Before all this happens, it would be nice for a measure to come out of this House that was also an act of love and care for our country; it would be a generous and far-sighted gesture that would lead us to think about this assembly and its honourable representatives perhaps in a different way, trying to make us feel with authority the usefulness of the service that we have rendered and still want to render to Italy and to the Italians. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII, SCpI and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u6	On behalf of the House, the Presidency also expresses deep condolences to the families of the victims and solidarity with all those affected, particularly the people of Liguria and Emilia-Romagna, who have been severely affected by the disaster. To civil protection, law enforcement, all rescuers (including ordinary citizens), who have also done their utmost to limit the effects of the natural disaster, I would like to express my sincere thanks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u7	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of the Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Dr. Chancellors.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2013 saw the Ministry of Justice fully committed to some fundamental issues in the most sensitive areas of competence, all characterized by a situation close to the emergency and all essential for the proper protection of rights, especially of the most vulnerable. I refer in particular to the interventions on the prison system, on which I will return later, aimed not only at giving dignity to prisoners, in view of the recovery of the educational function of the sentence, but also to return to Italy, in international comparison, the image of a country culturally attentive to the protection of all people, in line with its civil and legal tradition and its history. I am also referring to the successful organizational plan for implementing the reform of judicial and regulatory geography to modify the civil and criminal system, aimed at recovering the efficiency of the Italian procedural system, which prevents citizens and businesses from enjoying justice within a reasonable time as an indispensable service of a modern state. At the end of my speech, I will submit comprehensive documentation on the state of justice, including on computer support, in order to ensure maximum transparency and accessibility of data, while I will focus my exposure on what has been achieved, as well as on the most critical points still to be addressed, as well as on the possible remedies to be submitted to Parliament's action. Once again, I must point out that the most critical points remain those of the functioning of the judicial system. Although the situation has not been satisfactory as a result of many interventions in recent years, it is in the eyes of all the excessive workload that afflicts the judicial offices. At the date of June 30, 2013, there were 5,257,693 pending civil trials and nearly 3 and a half million criminal trials. The system continues to suffer, despite the response offered by the Italian judiciary, that the European Commission's latest report on the efficiency of justice places the highest in terms of productivity. We are in the presence of an imposing phenomenon of expansion in quantitative but above all qualitative terms of judicial work, caused not only by an increase in litigiosity in the civil field or criminal activity in the criminal field. The causes are many and have their roots also in the transformation in the modern society, characterized by rapid evolution of economic processes and increase of the rights and interests diffused. Think of the dilation of the criminally relevant cases, which has helped to produce a clogging of the system. If we move from criminal justice to civil justice, we record how greatly the catalogue of those subjective rights which, by their nature, can only find in the courts their recognition and their implementation. Rights today extended to all those situations linked to complex economic and social interests, whose definition in the court takes on greater difficulty and ever longer times. They increase the workloads and the area of action of the magistrates. Hence the dissatisfaction with the slowness of the judges and the fears that the overexposition of the judiciary may alter the delicate institutional balance that must mark the relationship between the powers of the State. The task of politics, more than ever in this historical contingency, is to deal with dissatisfactions and fears, placing jurisdiction in the conditions of exercising with full legitimacy and social credibility the essential function of protection of rights and legality. In this way, the horizon of the reform initiatives taken by the government's action for the near future is outlined. The need to deal radically with a seemingly irreversible crisis has led to the adoption of some innovations with the aim of greater efficiency. Although in the short period of time since the Government's establishment and having to take account of the severe budgetary constraints resulting from the economic crisis, it is my firm intention to continue along this path according to the following guidelines: rationalization of the judicial organization from the point of view of the territorial structure; overall efficiency of the judicial service from the point of view of the demand and the supply of justice with the connected problem of the decrease of the backward; loosening of the detention tension connected to the overcrowding prison. On the first point, I believe that the implementation of the reform of the new judicial geography is of strategic importance. The system was characterised by serious backwardness. The Italian judicial paper, which dates back largely to the second half of the nineteenth century, was a source of organizational diseconomies and high costs. Not only significant expenditure savings are expected from the implementation of the reform, but, above all, a clear recovery in efficiency as a result of the better distribution of scarce resources. The reform also ensures greater predictability and quality of judicial decisions, very important factors, along with the times, to attract international investors to our country. The analysis of the statistical series of the last thirty years shows that the most efficient judicial offices are those of medium size with a budget of judges between 30 and 60 units. This is why not only modest structures have been eliminated, where in some cases there was a disproportion between the number of people employed in the office and the low workload, but also the pressure on larger metropolitan offices such as Milan, Turin and Naples has been lightened. The comfort gained from the reform following the Constitutional Court's rulings prompts us to continue without delay. With the corrective decrees, some already adopted and others under study, every necessary change will be made in the awareness that such a vast work certainly makes some adjustment necessary. I am well aware, in fact, that the new design of judicial geography, despite the conviction of its essentiality, has not been without sacrifice and has raised many concerns for the forensic class, for the magistrates, for the administrative staff and for the local community directly concerned, concerns that have also been shared by many parliamentarians. I must acknowledge, however, that the territory has responded with great willingness, showing deep civic maturity and a sense of responsibility. In addition to the amalgamation of the judicial offices, which allowed the recovery of administrative and judicial staff, the Ministry has also made great efforts in 2013 to carry out the competitive procedures of recruitment of new magistrates. By decree of 2 May 2013 273 ordinary magistrates were recruited in internship; the last competition procedure for exams for 370 ordinary magistrate posts was completed; the final ranking was approved on 27 November 2013 and 352 candidates were eligible. The sums necessary for the recruitment of new judges have been allocated to the budget: this will enable the recruitment of new judges in court to proceed quickly from the spring of next year. With ministerial decree of 30 October 2013 a new competition for exams was held for 365 ordinary magistrate posts. For the first time, the procedure for completing and sending the application for participation in the competition has been computerised. The written tests will take place in the late spring of 2014. Finally, the obligations laid down in Decree-Law No 69 of 21 June 2013, the so-called decree of the making, aimed at the recruitment of 400 auxiliary judges, are in the process of being completed, intended to facilitate the definition of civil proceedings pending at each court of appeal. The entry into service of this new category of honorary judges is scheduled for next spring. For the honorary magistrates, who make an irreplaceable contribution to the justice service, pending the completion of a complete reform that is before Parliament, a further extension in the law of stability has been arranged, under which 2,400 of them will be able to remain in service for a year. In addition, with an amendment to the so-called'milleproroghe' decree-law, I have proposed to postpone the extension for a further year, so that they can operate peacefully in the constancy of approval of the reform. I also undertook with the peace judges to open a technical table on the reform: initiative will start in days. It is my intention to proceed in the same way with the honorary magistrates, for whom I shall shortly set up a meeting with the relevant representatives. Further action to promote the efficiency of the judicial service has been taken in a comprehensive and integrated perspective, affecting, with reference to civil justice, the cumbersome procedural mechanisms that often lead to delays in themselves. It is also intended to affect both the demand for justice, including through the valorisation of the institution of media-conciliation, publicly evaluated in extremely positive terms also at European level, and the supply of justice, attacking the backwardness and rationalising the procedural system. In other words, interventions on the civil process aim to bring back to physiological levels, within a limited time frame, the management and extent of the litigation. The first results from statistical monitoring are comforting. Data for the last half of 2013 reveals, in fact, the positive impact of the choices already adopted (appeal filters, increased unified contributions and reform of the so-called Pinto law) and from this Government continue. There is a decline in slopes compared to 2012 for all grades of judgment of 4 percent, which reaches 6 percent in court of appeal, as well as a reduction of 20 percent in the matter of appeals in the matter of fair repair for the unreasonable duration of the processes. Among the various interventions carried out are the measures introduced by Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, urgent provisions for the revival of the economy, the decree of doing, aimed at further reducing the burden of civil justice and ensuring a reasonable duration of proceedings. It introduced, as has been said, auxiliary judges in the court of appeal; the training internship was introduced at the judicial offices for graduates in jurisprudence, reconciling in this way the needs of greater efficiency with those of formation of young people; the staff of the magistrates of the maximum of the Court of Cassation in support of ordinary activities was increased; there were interventions with specific measures aimed at cutting down the time for the recovery of the credit, preventing conducts dilatory of the debtor. In order to reduce the number of judicial proceedings that came in, after the judgment of the Council of the end of 2012, the mandatory mediation for many types of cases has been restored experimentally for a four-year period: the work of a mediator, that is, of a qualified professional, is functional to the attainment of an agreement between the parties, preventing that the dispute arrives in court or, for the proceedings already pending, facilitating the conclusion without the decision of the judge. I believe, in fact, that compulsory mediation is an instrument of great effectiveness to return to the authoritative decision its predicate of extrema ratio and favor a cultural change in the direction of the reduction of the tendency to persistent litigiosity in our country. I am sincerely convinced that, after an initial and inevitable period of settlement, the institute will have positive effects on the procedural burden. To this end, a system has been set up to monitor the operation of the mediation bodies to be carried out through the planning of periodic inspections. I would still like to recall the bill approved by the Government on 17 December 2013, linked to the 2014 Stability Act, aimed at streamlining and speeding up the entire civil procedural sequence. The legislative proposal, which consists of delegation rules and immediately preceptive rules, covers procedural and substantive measures for the recovery of the efficiency of the process of cognition and enforcement, as well as measures aimed at reforming the rules on securities collateral, with the aim of facilitating access to credit. Among the measures put to Parliament's attention are measures to simplify the procedural forms for disputes not characterized by specific complexity; to speed up the time taken to define the process with the provision of a judgment without a full statement of reasons; to stop the parties' right to obtain it at a later stage if they require it; to support the productivity of the courts of appeal with the provision that, in some types of cases, the judgment may be pronounced by only one judge and not by a college of three judges; to oblige the high-tech cases of the request for the appointment of a technical consultant, before starting the process, which may facilitate a transactive definition. With immediately preceptive norms it affects the process of forced execution in order to contain the times, eliminating unnecessary procedural passages. A number of other actions have been carried out in the field of the provision of justice: the intensification of the computerization process, the stabilisation of the courts for businesses, projects aimed at improving the organisation of the courts. During 2013, the activities of computerization and digitisation of the judicial administration continued, despite the constant contraction in the financial resources available. Today, services such as the electronic filing of documents and online communications of stationery are available throughout the national territory and telematic payments are a reality of daily use in twenty-one districts in twenty-six, with significant savings and greater guarantees compared to the possibility of error. As of June 30, 2014, the telematic civil process will be mandatory by law for all monitoring procedures. It should not be overlooked that the inefficiencies of ordinary justice not only lead to inconveniences for utilities and the private economy, but also cause serious repercussions on public debt. The appeals for the recognition of the responsibilities of the State for the delays in judicial matters governed by the so-called Pinto law constitute a large part of the litigation followed by the Ministry, despite the signs of a progressive reduction. The number and extent of convictions is still an important part of the liabilities of the justice budget, the elimination of which must be set as a priority objective. The high number of convictions and the limited appropriations on the relevant budget chapter have led to a large backlog of the so-called Pinto debt, which in October 2013 amounted to over €387 million. The question of delays in payment of compensation by the Ministry has led, over the years, to the creation of more and more ongoing litigation, enforcement procedures, compliance judgments, appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, with the addition of additional expenses. In this problematic context, there are also some thousand appeals to the European Court of Human Rights to complain about the late payment of compensation which will result in a further payment to the State in order to put an end to the dispute and for which a return plan to be implemented by next September has been presented. With the acceleration of the process, therefore, it is important to have a significant impact, for the immediate future, on the timing of the decisions, also in order to stop such an unjustified exponential growth of delays and expenses. In criminal matters, too, the primary objective is to reduce the length of proceedings, the duration of which tends to decline for the courts of appeal and prosecutors of the Republic, while the same cannot be said for the courts. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce mechanisms for deflation of the judicial burden capable of eliminating, already in the investigation phase, the investigations which, due to the modesty of the interests at stake, do not deserve the examination of the case. At the same time, the deflated effectiveness of alternative rites should be strengthened without debate and decisively acting on the system of service of judicial documents. Finally, it is intended to carry out a calibrated revision of the mechanism of appeals, with a view to strengthening the accusatory vocation of the process and the function of guaranteeing appeals. Rationalisation of expenditure and increased efficiency of the service are also the objectives that are intended to be pursued through the completion of the procedure on the single invitation to tender for interceptions. On a substantial level, special attention has been paid to combating so-called gender violence. While aware that to eliminate the spread of this sad phenomenon requires first of all a deep social awareness, last August, Decree-Law No 93 of 14 August 2013, converted with amendments by Law No 119 of 15 October 2013, which contains specific provisions of both substantive and procedural nature, in order to provide more effective protection to victims, to allow a wider participation of persons offended in the process and to avoid the phenomenon of so-called secondary victimization. As I anticipated at the beginning, a remarkable effort has been made to address and seek immediate and concrete solutions for the prison issue. The activity of the entire year was marked by the judgment of the European Court of Strasbourg of 8 January 2013 (Journal of Torreggiani), which made the respect of a minimum proportion between the number of prisoners and the living space they have in prison. In order to overcome the complex problems arising from this situation, an extraordinary effort was needed, which has, moreover, brought positive results to date under the multi-pronged intervention profiles. The plan presented to the Council of Europe over the past few weeks is publicly appreciated by our institutional partners and moves along three lines: legislative interventions; the adoption of a new model of intermural criminal execution fully respectful of constitutional principles and inspired by the empowerment of prisoners, which improves their living conditions and promotes their treatment and relations with the family and external society; the continuation of an action for the recovery, conversion and extension of the penitentiary heritage that can already lead, within the year just begun, to a further increase in the accommodation capacity of the prison institutions to the extent of about 4,500 units. On the regulatory level, the Council of Ministers launched, just before Christmas, a new intervention that continues along a path already traced by similar measures to reduce the prison population. Decree-Law No 141 of 17 December 2013 aims to reduce in a selective and non-discriminatory way the number of people confined to prison through measures aimed at affecting both the flows of entry into prison institutions (with surgery in the matter of small drug dealing, responsible for the presence in prison of a very large number of people), and the people leaving the prison circuit. The possibility of access to probationary social services is extended to 75 days for each semester; the institution of the execution of the sentence at home, provided for in Law No 199 of 2010 is established; the instruments of protection of the rights of persons held by means of the provision of a new judicial procedure before the magistrate of surveillance, as well as the establishment of the figure of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons held or otherwise deprived of personal freedom are strengthened; the institution of expulsion as an alternative sanction for foreign prisoners is strengthened, already anticipating the start of the complex identification procedure at the time of their entry into prison; then some final provisions are introduced in order to prevent delays in the adoption of the regulation, provided for by the so-called Smuraglia law, on penitential work from using the financial resources already allocated for the facilitations and tax reliefs in favour of employers of works employing detained or interned workers. The first results are very encouraging: on January 9, 2014, the prisoners in prison were 62,326 of which 59,644 men and 2,682 women, gradually decreasing compared to the previous survey of December 4, 2013, when the number was 64,056 prisoners. In addition, there is a substantial halving of monthly entries by virtue of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013 which, among other things, has eliminated the prohibition of suspension of the prison order for requalified illicits. Fifty percent of prisoners confined to medium-security circuits, equal to about 25,000, benefit from the opening of cells for eight hours a day. The aim is to allow 80% of medium-security prisoners to benefit from the same benefit by next May. The possibility of increasing social spaces offers greater treatment opportunities and promotes the personalization of re-educational paths. At the same time, I would like to stress that all the planned measures, which are being implemented, do not alter the social balance, since there is no automatic provision for granting penitentiary benefits. Each decision shall be taken by the supervisory magistrate on the basis of a positive assessment of the prisoner's personality. Further effects may occur with the approval of bill No. 925, currently under discussion in the Chambers, which provides for the introduction of the detention of house arrests for crimes punishable by imprisonment for up to six years. The number of recipients of the standard could be about 4,000 inmates. It remains the responsibility of Parliament to choose whether to use those extraordinary instruments invoked by the President of the Republic and which would certainly allow us to respond in a certain and rapid time to the demands of the Council of Europe. What I would like to stress here is that these measures, if taken, would not have any effect in the short term, as in the past, because a number of measures are being taken and are being taken to contain new entry into prison in the future. From the organisational point of view, the revision of the penitentiary system is at an advanced stage in order to obtain a more rational distribution of the prisoners in the structures. The implementation of this new system will make the experience of the prison more livable and will reduce the discomfort of the prisoners, often due to self-harm and suicide actions, which have however significantly decreased over the last year. It will also benefit women and men of the prison police, who for too long have been called upon to carry out extraordinary tasks and who can be returned to the security functions that are theirs. In any case, still with regard to the prison police, the serious shortages of staff and economic resources, which are increasingly indefensible, will have to be dealt with. Interventions on penitentiary work will also be fundamental, with a view to significantly increasing the training and vocational start-up offers of the population. Finally, infrastructure interventions aimed at better distribution and expansion of existing spaces continue. Within the so-called prison plan, 12,324 detention posts are being carried out, of which 3,100 are being opened by the opening of four new prisons. In 2014 there will also be a recovery of at least 1,500 places currently not usable, in most cases due to structural causes, which will be made available thanks to restoration interventions already underway and the recovery of buildings intended for psychiatric and judicial hospital. At international level, as is well known in 2014 it proposes to Italy the challenge of the six-monthly Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will open on 1 July. This will include negotiating on the various instruments being developed. Without mentioning them all, attention is drawn in particular to the two proposals for regulations aimed at establishing a European Public Prosecutor, the most important construction site currently under way in the field of criminal cooperation, which will enter a decisive phase of negotiation during our six-month period; and to the enhancement of Eurojust, as well as the three new proposals on strengthening the guarantee rights for children accused, on the presumption of innocence, on legal aid, recently filed with the European Commission and intended to supplement the so-called road map on procedural rights adopted by the Council in 2009. With regard to the critical issues, it must once again be pointed out that, despite some recent progress, there is a continuing delay in the legislative implementation of the obligations arising from the agreements of international law and the European Union's legal acts in criminal matters. This situation is of concern in relation to the next deadline of 1 December 2014, when the Commission will also be able to highlight infringement procedures before the Court of Justice, in relation to the failure to implement the instruments adopted even before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty on 1 December 2009. A strong signal of reversal of trend can be found in the legislative delegations conferred to the Government for the transposition of as many as six directives of the Union recently adopted in criminal matters, and previewed by the law of 6 August 2013, n. 96. The objectives of the European Semester on civil cooperation are no less important: the Presidency programme provides for the conclusion of three proposals for regulations on the preservation of accounts, insolvency proceedings and the legalisation of public documents. These measures will ensure greater protection for creditors and facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses within the European Union. Finally, the Italian Presidency will devote its greatest efforts to making substantial progress on the Data Protection package, with the aim of adapting Member States' supervision of the use, collection and processing of personal data, in a changing world due to the digital economy and the new rights related to the use of online platforms and services. A considerable effort has also been devoted to the reorganization of the professions; in implementation of the law of 24 March 2012, n. 27, which increased the number of notaries by 500, has been carried out the revision of the notary table, which determines its number and residence. The decree offers a contribution to the process of liberalization undertaken by the previous Government and continued by the current one, and ensures a widespread territorial spread of the notary service. In the same way of liberalization, the other professional orders supervised by the Ministry were carried out. A number of regulations adopted by the National Councils on the establishment of bodies of territorial discipline, continuing training and vocational training have been published. With regard to juvenile justice, there is a worrying increase in the presence of children with multiple hardships and problems of social malaise related to phenomena of school dispersal, marginalization and social vulnerability, mental discomfort, drug abuse, recruitment in organized crime, immigration of unaccompanied minors, difficulties of integration of second-generation foreign children, formation of youth gangs, exploitation, abuse and trafficking of minors. In recent years there has been an increasing application of placement in communities, not only as a precautionary measure, but also as part of other judicial measures, because of its ability to meet educational needs with those containing control. The data also confirm the increase in the presence of minor foreign nationals from North Africa, in particular Tunisia and Egypt. The treatment approach for children must mainly be based on listening and receiving, therefore on dialogue. To this end, the Charter of the Rights and Obligations of Minors who meet child justice services was drawn up in 2013 and is available in several languages to enable foreign users to use it. In terms of family relationships, the long-awaited complete equality between children born in marriage and children born outside marriage has been achieved, eliminating any anachronistic discrimination, even from a substantial point of view and any unequal treatment in terms of the rights and duties of parents towards children. The considerations that I have developed allow me to appreciate the action of the Government, both with reference to regulatory initiatives and organizational and executive engagement. For the sake of summary requirements, I would like to refer to the report produced for further information on the individual subjects. Parliament has a decisive appreciation of further regulatory projects in the pipeline. I believe - I have tried to demonstrate this with this rapid exhibition - that we have set out on a responsible and virtuous path, supported by a concrete and precise strategy of intervention. The current situation of difficulty in the judicial system must not, in fact, lead to the wrong belief that things cannot improve or constitute an alibi for immobilism. We can all help ensure that the optimism of the will prevails over the pessimism of reason. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u9	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u10	We would like to welcome the students of the Istituto Tecnico Stato, economic sector, Carlo Levi, Turin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u11	Before moving on to the debate on the report by the Minister of Justice, I would like to say that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled, signed by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romani, Zeller and Susta, and No 2 by Senator De Petris and others, whose texts are distributed. I note that any further motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have listened very carefully to your report, partly because I attach great importance to this occasion, which Parliament is generally neglecting. There is no attention to what should become one of the key moments in the dialogue between Parliament and the Minister in order to resolve the problems of justice. Minister, the only thing that puzzles me a little is the absence in your report of any reference to what has characterized this past year, to the tension that exists between the judiciary and politics. The administration of justice is not only made up of laws, norms and organization, but also of behaviour. There are thousands of magistrates in the judiciary who carry out their work in full, but there are also some behaviors that can be attributed to the concept that a judiciary wants that demands equal political decision, a concept that certainly leads the judiciary to lose. At the same time, the legislator should also be part of certain behavior, such as that of formulating rules that leave ample room for discretion to the judge, the magistrate, and then accuse him of invading the sphere of politics. Madam Minister, there is therefore a need for clarity from a legislative point of view. Again this morning, in the legal text that we have just adopted, we tried to write formulations that would avoid further possibilities of doubt or conflict. Many times we can only follow what the Government and the majority manage to impose. 17.31 (Following Caliendo) In the final explanation of vote I will explain the reasons for our vote, but now I want to highlight some passages in the Minister's report. When he speaks of a short sentence, not fully reasoned, the Minister probably does not take into account what happens in the countries in which there is a short sentence: he should instead induce the magistrates to go there, to realize that it is not 'not motivated', but is motivated. In those countries, however, there is a rule, which requires judges to personally summon the parties, to which the reasons for the decision are explained, which are based on the principles of law, the previous case law and the investigative activity that is recalled in summary. That brief judgment and the participation of the parties in the interview with the judge often result in the non-proposition of the appeal of the judgment. Many times, in those countries, there is no appeal and the sentence is not fully justified. Secondly, the Minister spoke of a prison plan. When I was a member of the Government, the Prison Plan had already been sketched out and, although since then a number of posts have been held, reading the report we do not know the time of implementation: however, it may be that from the attached lists to which the Minister referred we will be able to have more precise indications. The Minister says that there are about 3,000 places, resulting from the activation of new prisons. When? From the point of view of the rules, we are working and today we have passed a law that can allow a different vision, but within an overall vision of the prison system, in which we must recover the human dignity of the people detained in prison. We must therefore put in place all the instruments to ensure that house arrest is carried out, on the one hand, but on the other we must also ensure effective imprisonment in prison for those who cannot have a different sanction. However, they must be able to serve their sentence in a situation of dignity. The Minister, like me, visited prisons and knows better than I what the situation is in the country. I appreciate what the Minister said about the honorary judiciary. The Minister, referring to what is now a recurring statement, which is repeated from year to year, about the fact that the honorary judiciary has been extended, pending reform. You know that I have presented a draft reform, open to all possible solutions and also to all possible corrective measures. I think we have to choose, we have to adopt a principle. The Minister rightly says that the honorary judiciary has made a great contribution. I say more: we must abandon the philosophy, especially as regards the honorary judges of the court, to consider them as substitutes for the absent judge and instead identify specific subjects and competences, as I have vainly tried to do in my bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I reserve the right to inform you of the further reasons why we will not vote, nor favorably, but not negatively, in the hope of establishing that dialogue between you and Parliament which we have requested several times. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u13	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will speak only on one of the points you highlighted in your report and, more specifically, on the reform of judicial geography, a reform not by chance defined as an epochal reform, since it puts hand to the territorial distribution of judicial offices dating back to the second half of the nineteenth century. Strategic reform to restore European efficiency standards to our justice system, and God knows how much we need it! A work of great complexity and delicacy - I quote his words - must ensure the right balance between the need to recover efficiency and resources and the indispensable need to maintain an adequate territorial coverage of the justice service. Well, Minister, never in this House did you want to stop the reform. Its inescapableness has been underlined in all acts and interventions. But when one suddenly eliminates 1000 judicial offices out of just over 2000 existing the possibility of error is, of course, there is. It is not for nothing that the delegation law provided for the instrument of the corrective decree to which, please allow me, so far there has been totally insufficient recourse. Madam Minister, you are certainly aware of the cases in which the strict application of the reform has led to denial of justice and not its greater efficiency. Are there few? Are they limited? Better! But that is not why we must give up intervention. She will have received requests for legal statements that many, entire territories have carried out, feeling alone, without the fundamental and indispensable support of the State in the fight against organized crime. Of course, he will know of the difficulties of the merging courts, of the hearings postponed for years or sine die, of the files piled up in the corridors, of the cathedrals built, alas, in the desert, since investments of several tens of millions have gone empty waiting for the State to decide what to do with these cathedrals, since the purpose for which they had been realized no longer exists. On 3 December 2013, the Senate Justice Commission unanimously approved - and I stress unanimously - an opinion respecting the fundamental principles of the law delegation of reorganisation and its objectives: efficiency, rationality, speed of processes. It highlighted the few, selected cases in which correction appears urgent. For some of them it could be said that we are now out of time. We hope that in the loyal cooperation between the Government and Parliament the work and suggestion of the Justice Commission will be properly considered. We will do our part, monitoring and pressing the work of the Government because the good of justice applies to us, it applies to each citizen. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I begin the intervention of the 5 Star Movement by reminding you in this House and yourself, Minister, of the first paragraph of Article 24 of the Constitution, which reads: Anyone may take legal action for the protection of his or her legitimate rights and interests. The second paragraph, Minister, says that defence is an inviolable right in every state and degree of the proceedings. The third paragraph states that they are insured to the poor, with special institutions, the means to act and defend themselves before each jurisdiction. I repeat, the means to act and defend themselves. These principles of our Constitutional Charter are reinforced by our participation in the European institutions and by Articles 6 and 13 of the Convention on Human Rights, which oblige each Member State which has signed that Charter to provide that every person whose rights and freedoms recognised in the Convention have been violated shall have the right to an effective remedy before a national court. Madam Minister, I would like to understand, and they want to understand millions of citizens, how it is possible to respect Article 24 of the Constitution when half of the judicial offices of this country are closed: half of the judicial offices. This "all" to whom is it referred? Only those living in big cities? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam Minister, how will you, your Government and your majority, guarantee the inviolability of this right of defence even to those who are not well off, when the already miserable parcels of legal aid are reduced? You come to this House and bring as a result, of which one should be ashamed, the decrease in litigation. Does the reduction in litigation at a time of crisis know what it means, Minister? It means people can't even go to court to defend their rights anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What do you want, for people to actually come under the Palaces of Power with pitchforks? The courtrooms, the lawyers, the judges are in the civil countries to protect the rights of citizens, and we know this for millennia: the Romans said "ne cives ad arma veniant" to protect their rights and their own reasons. But you are undermining him from the foundation, preventing desperate citizens from having justice. Forgive me, Minister, it is not a personal matter, but you are not the Minister for Justice, you are the Minister for the Settlement of Justice in this country, and so you will be remembered. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Constitutional Court in so many judgments - I read only one of them - says that this right to judicial protection must be ascribed to the supreme principles. Mr. Minister, we are talking about supreme principles; Beppe Grillo does not say so, we do not say so, as the Constitutional Court says in judgment No 18 of 1982, taken from dozens of sentences: supreme principles of our order. Even the Court says that it is intimately connected with the same principle of democracy to assure everyone and always, Madam Minister (not to the Ligresti, billionaires prejudiced: to all and always, even to the poor desperate Christians) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , for any dispute, a judge in court. Madam Minister, in all conscience, after the slaughter that has been done of justice in this country, between unified contributions and raised to the stars, between closed courts, between the right suppressed to have a lawyer, do you think that this guarantee exists, especially for the last? There is no, there is no more, and this is a deliberate act of your Ministry, of which we in this House, on behalf of the citizens, are asking you to account this evening and always. Madam Minister, do you come here to talk about empty prisons, about re-entry activities left to the discretion of the judges, but you know that, you have already been told and you have been aware of this since before, that the empty prison measure has released dangerous mafias and will put another 40 shortly? Do you know that, Madam Minister, or did you not know? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There would be so much to say, and millions of Italians have so much to say, because when nine Regions (not one, not five, as required by the Constitutional Charter, but nine Regions) demand a referendum precisely on judicial geography, do you know how many people they represent? There are 23 million citizens, who you and the Court slammed in the door in the face with this reform of justice. One thought, in the end, goes to a poor angel, Madam Minister, whose name was Nicola. He was three years old and in his life he saw only prison, violence and, a few days ago, death, in Calabria. It was where he wasn't supposed to be, with a felon. He, poor Nicola, did not have his cell phone number, yet a law of the State was to be applied to him that, poor man, was not applied and so he died, burned, at three years old, in our country, of which we, decent citizens, are ashamed, thanks also to her and her Government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u17	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u18	Madam President, Senators, Minister, I have found your report on the state of justice frankly very disappointing. The truth is that in this year little or nothing has been done and that little has been decidedly negative for the country. If we were to give a title to his report, the choice would fall back to the future, because it contains a list of good intentions that could possibly belong to a settlement speech or to the beginning of the legislature, certainly not to the report of a judicial year. Frankly it is embarrassing, for those who have devoted the entire professional life and much of the political life to justice, to having to see a state of health that is absolutely negative for the entire judicial system. While it may be understandable that you are trying to highlight certain aspects that are probably only positive from your point of view, it is clear from your own report that nothing substantial can be done by this majority in the coming months. Our judgment cannot fail to take into account a government that has so far failed all the objectives it had set itself, including reform of justice. Yet the start of this troubled legislature and the constitution, after eager attempts at miraculous governments of change, of an executive of broad understanding, with the aim of carrying out those structural reforms that the country needs, based on its reason for being also on the need to review the whole system of justice. In these months we have seen occasional interventions, buffer measures, which do not even have the ambition to have a profound impact on the problems and which represent, to wish to be optimistic, pure and simple palliative. Moreover - and this is frankly uncomfortable - these interventions have always been included in different measures that make us understand how justice is considered a residual topic and that most of the time have produced negative results; I quote one, that on judicial districts, which should have been modified on Parliament's input. Such examples could be made in different ways. The same report of the Working Group on institutional reforms, that of the wise men wanted by President Napolitano, clearly indicated some basic guidelines in order to make our country a state able to compete, even on these matters, with other European countries and not only. It was therefore a starting point, also in relation to the aspects dealt with and judged to be central to the reforms to be carried out. I would like to remind them: effective compliance with reasonable time-frames, revision of the time-limits for the limitation of criminal offences, limitation of the length of the stages of preliminary investigations, rules on interceptions, disciplinary judgement of the judiciary. But what has the government done in this regard? What are the concrete acts of the Executive and the majority to start a real debate on these issues? Everyone can, as an obligation in politics, give his own judgment, but, in the face of zero (zero initiatives, zero proposals, zero achievements), the subjectivity of the judgment cannot fail to leave the field to an objective observation. On justice, and therefore on the lives of millions of citizens, every political force cannot escape its responsibilities. Nine million civil and criminal trials pending - this is confirmed by his own data - tell us that, if there are two parties to the trial, there are 20 million Italians (one out of three) waiting for a justice response. Hiding this as dust under the carpet is tantamount to sharing in the unrighteousness in existence. But - I am sorry to say - even on this we do not understand what has been done in concrete terms, with the exception of the reduction of the possibility of appealing, which has become practically a paid option. This is a serious vulnus for our order, a first step towards class justice, where citizens are no longer equal before the law, regardless of income and economic availability; we cannot but oppose this mistaken vision of unconstitutional justice because it is elitist. As Forza Italia, in addition to the repeated willingness to confront us all on the points mentioned above, we have presented drafts and legislative proposals aimed at the solution, Madam Minister, of the endemic problems of our judicial system. But the political paralysis that has now gripped this Government, as the debate on electoral reform also clearly shows, will inevitably end with preventing any proposal and therefore any solution. Not starting from the general construction of a justice system can only lead to livening up the day. I am referring, of course, to the measure adopted today in this House on alternative penalties and testing. A text shared by a large majority in the Commission, but then gradually upset by the introduction of that decriminalisation of the crime of illegal immigration that is nothing more than the logical consequence of the instrumental and flag intentions waved by various representatives of the Government and the majority. Here, too, the strategic vision needed to see immigration legislation as a whole has not been highlighted, nor has there been an attempt to change or correct the current rules to make them more effective and less bureaucratic. No, the choice of this majority was once again to proceed not for step, but for commercials, trying to soften the positions of the most extreme left and to recover those consensus that, according to all polls, are not at all benevolent towards the forces that are standing up the government of not doing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Alberti Casellati, please finish. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Just a moment. When it comes to prisons, we have to deal first with numbers. Of the 62,536 prisoners present in our prisons at December 31, 2013, 21,854 were foreigners; well over 30 percent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish the sentence, because the time is up. I wouldn't want to take her word for it. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Then I have to skip this... let me finish, because it's important to me. Much in your relationship... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u19	Senator Alberti Casellati, you can deliver the text of your speech. If you finish the sentence, that's fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u20	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Two minutes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). One minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. Finish the sentence, please. That goes for everyone. That goes for you, too. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). All right, then I'll try to synthesize. I am very surprised that the Minister said in his report that there is a considerable commitment to the reorganization of the professions. There are ten lines - I say ten lines - and in these ten lines the professions have been mortified, like that of the lawyers, who have been held responsible for the daring quarrels. But who will turn to a lawyer if there is this co-responsibility? Who else can be a lawyer if one has to answer for his actions? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Alberti Casellati, she's really moved on. Please. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). What I want to say is: how can justice be guaranteed if once again you kill the middle class (why is this being done with this provision)? [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u21	Senator, you can hand over the remainder of your speech to be appended to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u22	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, there is a childhood story that has been denied in these days' chronicles, "The lonely ordeal of little Coco" and I have not heard a single word in your bureaucratic report on the story of children from scratch to three years locked up in our prisons. [[Applause from Senators Blondo and Giarrusso]] So I try to speak from the heart to his heart. They called him Coco, he reports to us "La Stampa" (The Print). He was a child, just a child. Coco had been entrusted to his grandfather, his grandfather on parole, a special overseer because he was accused of being a pusher of the Gypsy godmother. There was no provision: no one has decided on the life of this child. Simply, his mother, only 25 years old, before returning to prison, left him to his grandfather. The child had entered prison with his mother after his arrest on 10 June 2011 as part of the anti-mafia operation "Tsunami." No one knew about Nicola's fate, called Coco, until the hearing of the trial on the eve of Christmas 2012 when, in the bunker hall of Castrovillari, we noticed - by chance! - of that little, lively, curious little guy with his nose crushed in the bars. He's been in there for eight hours, cold and freezing, locked up like a wild beast behind bars. This has stirred indignation: the indignation of many, but the disinterest of those who could take care of Coco. I remind you that the law provides for house arrests for mothers with young children, and Coco's mother had two other children. No social worker is obviously aware of the situation; no one intervenes to remove children from an unhealthy and especially dangerous situation, given the involvement of man and his family in a bloody feud between cosche (as always reported by "La Stampa"). Mother's lawyers continue to make requests for house arrests (concession of house arrests: we have already spoken about this in this Chamber for some other defendants in danger); it is a pity that the Supreme Court in Rome postpones the hearing in order to decide on the granting of house arrests to this young woman for an impediment of the rapporteur. It was January 16th. Whoever killed Coco didn't wait. Another chronicle and not of a dangerous communist sheet, but of the Avvenire, the newspaper of the bishops. It tells us that it is incredible that the child has been entrusted to the convicted grandfather and house arrests. So perhaps the grandfather brought with him, and with the young companion, to the mortal appointment this child, probably thinking that the presence of the child would protect him. But the 'ndrangheta, like all the other mafias, does not respect any life. That's why Coco died, too. So, Minister Chancellors, you've been seeing me in the Justice Commission for months. I've been talking to you about children from scratch to three years in prison. No child has to cross the prison thresholds anymore. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]] You, Minister, must tell us clear words about the application of the law establishing family houses, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, that is for a few days, but totally unimplemented! That of the children detained is a real humanitarian emergency on which, shamefully, in fact, there are no answers. I understand that much is the result of the legacy of the past, but now we must act. So that Coco's death is not useless, we have only one opportunity: to ensure that the guilty disregards of the entire machine of justice, from social services to the Court of Cassation no longer repeat themselves and that the Ministry identifies and punishes those responsible for all the omissions related to this tragic affair that could be avoided. Minister Chancellor, you haven't answered me for months; you've been telling me there's no resources for protected homes for months. Then, explain to me why the amendment tabled by the Democratic Party Group and other groups, both in the House and in the Senate, was rejected. We know that there are funds for ICAMs provided for by Law No 62 of 2011: only a small transfer was requested so that at least one or two protected houses could be started. You spoke of minors and documents in various languages that have been prepared for minors arriving in Italy. The reminders - we always learn from the news - that minors disappear from the CIE, often without anyone knowing what happens to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u24	Senator Cirinna, please finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u25	CIRINNA' (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. Madam Minister, in your conclusion you called for the optimism of will. I would ask you, on this subject, to give a sign of will and to do something for these 50 children, who may not be interested in anyone because they are children of foreign women and Roma women. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u26	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, I too, as an angel, have a case. In 1998, at dawn, the police showed up at the house of Lorena Morselli and Delfino Covezzi and took away the four minor children on the charge of not having monitored the fact that a priest, Don Giorgio Govoni, would spend the nights, in the low Modena, in a bus full of children to make black masses, to slaughter other children and to hang them on the hooks butcher and so on following accusations of this type. Despite the intransigence of the accusations, Don Giorgio Govoni was sent back to trial and died of a heart attack when he learned he had been sent back to trial. The parents turned to Parliament and at the time - it was 1998 - I put a question to the Minister of Justice Diliberto, but he did not answer me because - twist! - five months later one of the four kids who had been taken away, talking to the social worker and the caretaker, melted in tears and said that they had not been raped by cousins or the priest, but by dad and mom. I repeat, it was 1998. In 2002, the court in Modena sentenced the spouses. He was a ceramic stoker (in the meantime he died) and she, Lorena Morselli, was a teacher in Catholic kindergarten; they were well-loved and followed by everyone. The conviction has been so surreal that they have appealed. Mrs. Minister, please listen to me because then I would like to draw a morale. The appeal took place in 2010, i.e. twelve years after the children had been taken away, which they no longer saw; in fact, the four minor children were sent to four parts of Italy in four different families. Therefore, in 2010 they were acquitted with a very detailed judgment that explained the reasons. The public prosecutor announced on appeal, in Bologna, that he would not appeal; on the last day, however, he filed an appeal and the case went to the Supreme Court, which sent him on appeal. In July 2013, for the second time, the appeal acquitted them with ninety detailed pages. After all, I begged you to go and see the acts of Parliament; when I was Undersecretary to the family I answered a question in Parliament and developed all the reasons why this case was surreal. So, the two spouses were acquitted for the second time on appeal, but on August 2, Covezzi died of a heart attack. Where? France. The mother, in fact, got pregnant with a fifth child named Paul, for ten years she has lived exile in France with her son, because if she had returned to Italy they would have taken away the fifth child. I repeat that on 2 August, while waiting for the grounds for the second acquittal to be lodged, the man died. The whole village of Massa Finalese has been surrounded by this poor family, who hoped to see the end of the tunnel. On the other hand, a month ago, the General Prosecutor of Bologna again appealed to the Supreme Court and a magistrate said: I'm serene. After sixteen years that these no longer see their children, the life destroyed, the husband died of heart attack, the house sold, the magistrate said: I'm serene. After two acquittals and after his colleagues in the appeal explained by thread and by sign that this is an absurd thing (it's like saying someone killed another on the moon), the magistrate says he is serene. This lady from France sent me another desperate letter, because, among other things, even the civil part (including associations, etc.) has notified that she is in cassation for the second time. And the notification came to the deceased husband. What is the morale that can be derived from this case? In your opinion (and in my opinion, as an Italian citizen) is justice the one who takes away your children for sixteen years and after sixteen years is still not able to tell you whether you are innocent or guilty? But when the cassation - as I imagine - in six months' time will determine that they are innocent, the fact remains that they have no longer seen their children in their lives. They saw their family destroyed. It's like an atomic bomb took them out. So, since these magistrates are always serene and social services have always done their duty, do we want to go see if it's all true? Is that possible? It is not a question of money; some things I have heard today are absolutely right: it has been said that there is a lack of resources. But there's no resource problem here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, finish, please. GIOVANARDI (NCD). I'm done, Madam President. Then we want to reason again that if an Italian citizen is acquitted in the name of the Italian people he cannot continue his whole life to be dragged back to trial, until he finds a judge who pleads him guilty, even if he has been acquitted several times? Of course justice will never work if it works that way. Please, Madam Minister, send an inspection and explain to us how it is possible for these scandalous things to happen, crying out for revenge before God. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u28	We greet the citizens of Castiglione delle Stiviere, who are attending our session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u29	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, given the short time available to me, I will concentrate only on one aspect of the administration of justice, the one closest to me out of direct knowledge, having for fourteen years served as a judicial assistant at the court of appeal in Brescia. Staff organization: it is now a chant every year in each inauguration ceremony of the judicial year the chronic lack of human and instrumental resources. In fact, the turnover block prevented a renewal of the staff and led to its gradual decline. The re-determination of organic plants, done a few years ago downwards, is significant, adapting it to the staff actually in service, in fact eliminating the deficiencies of organic plants, on paper. It is symptomatic of the use of instruments of organizational cosmetics, such as the reform of judicial geography, made without any criteria, simply to recover human resources, and the use of precarious and mobile personnel: pensioners, volunteers, trainees, interns. Each office invents everything in order to recover staff. Sometimes the organizational and administrative management of these human resources is so cumbersome and bureaucratic that it renders their effective use useless, because already only managing the recruitment and administration of these people weighs even more the office. The training of staff is relegated to the virtuous initiative of district trainers or managers, but always short of resources. The Ministry is always absent whenever there is a reform of laws, regulations and regulations. Every time a rule is changed, the Ministry is absent in the information to its staff, which must be arranged, and is often left to the initiative of the individual, with truly hallucinating situations between different offices that apply the rules in a different way. It fills the mouth with computerization and digitalization: empty words, initiatives without legs to move forward, especially in the criminal sector, with magistrates who often, both in criminal and civil in this case, show back to new technologies. You always stop at the magistrates and their numerical deficiency. Even today you have listed a series of recruitments, both ordinary and honorary, but forgetting that, even if the staff of the judiciary worked more (and should work more, this we want to emphasize), the sentences would remain inevaded, unexecuted, if there is no concrete support behind them. The blocking of contracts, the lack of retraining of staff (the only among all the Ministries), the lack of instrumental resources, inadequate locations, the lack of training and the failure to pay overtime do not make the service more effective. As an example, I would like to quote you, Minister, what happened to me: a few days ago I received a payment from the Brescia Court of Appeal for a token of attendance for the 2009 bar exams. I repeat: I received it a few days ago for the 2009 attorney's exams. Resources have arrived now. It was only EUR 100, but I say this to give an indication. They're high. Even in this case a cosmetic intervention is not enough, pushing on best practices, which are only isolated initiatives of which there is a real diffusion, sharing or taking charge as models to be implemented for everyone. There are many other things to note that are light years away from the idea of reform of justice that has always gone through these classrooms. I am thinking, for example, of the separation of careers, the civil responsibility of judges, the limit of the duration of trials, the indult and other interventions that are not functional to the improvement of the service of justice, but to the escape from justice. How can one imagine a speeding-up of justice by these classrooms if the main users of justice (such as suspects, accused and convicted) have sat down and some still sit in these classrooms? Who cares that justice works, especially criminal justice? Certainly not those who flee from justice, taking refuge in parliamentary prerogatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will conclude, Minister, with two quick comments. The first concerns computer and system assistance: a very delicate service always entrusted to private external companies, with always problems of refinancing. It is necessary to internalise it, finding resources also in other public administrations. The second concerns debt recovery: few know - even there - that the administration of justice is one of the most important sources of income for the state's coffers, thanks to the debt recovery offices. Today's debt recovery is entrusted to Equitalia, which collects up to 30 percent - I repeat: 30 percent! - credit recovery fees. Therefore, this aspect should also be internalised.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u31	Senator, finish, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u32	CRIMI (M5S). Allow me to conclude, Madam President, by simply pointing out the hypocrisy which - unfortunately - I have once again pointed out in my colleagues in the Democratic Party. In this case, Senator Cirinna, after voting no to our motion of no confidence to Minister Cancellieri... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please stay on the score and finish. CRIMI (M5S). ...he accused her - in fact - of the same things that we accused her of. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u34	Madam President, Minister, the report you have produced today certainly shows that this Government is intent on intervening in relation to the reorganisation of the judicial system in order to modify its main distortions and to better guarantee Italian citizens a right of access to justice, whether it is citizens who are seeking justice, whether it is citizens who are detained, to whom fundamental rights must be guaranteed. However, I see in the mechanisms, modalities and measures that are still putting in place a number of shortcomings, not operational, because no one expects the moon at once, but in the cultural approach that should push us in this direction, starting from an issue on which you have long reflected in your extensive initial illustration: the issue of prison overcrowding. We are putting in place some very important measures: the decree passed last year, the bill on decriminalization, but also on non-convict sentences and testing, which the Senate approved at second reading just this morning; again, the bill on protective custody, which is coming, and the decree-law on the rights of the prison population. There is certainly an effort on the part of the Government to respond to that request from the European Union in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights (in particular, with the so-called Torreggiani judgment, which was mentioned earlier). However, I believe that if we, as we are orienting ourselves to do, at least want to consider, as the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano invited us to do, the hypothesis of indult and amnesty as the last ratio, as the final stage of a path that must necessarily be propedeutic to an extraordinary measure of that kind, then we must be more courageous in this direction. I just want to give an example. We have spoken these days, in which we discussed draft law No 925 on non-convict sentences and other measures that I mentioned earlier, to intervene in the context of the issue of the presence in our prisons of a proportion of drug addicts sometimes more than 25% of the population of an institution. The decree-law on the rights of prisoners takes into consideration the issue of the many people present in our prisons as a result of crimes committed related to drugs but minor, reducing the sentence from six to five years. I believe that in this direction we must have more courage. Today we have decided to postpone the overall reasoning on the subject of drug legislation to a more organic context. When, however, the decree of the Government intervenes on this measure, it will be important to succeed - for example - to cross the prediction that we have inserted in the bill n. 925 - that is, the identification of the non-convict detention penalty through the imprisonment home for up to three years as the main obligatory measure - with this type of crime. Let me give another example, always linked to that decree that will come and that we will soon have a more in-depth discussion: the issue of early liberation. Well the increase in early release days from 45 to 75 every six months; but it would be important for this to become a more structured measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish. THE COURT (PD). I will finish now, Mr President. I say only one word on the subject of the Garante of the Rights of Prisoners, since this is a very important issue and we will discuss it soon. Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this matter in the Justice Commission: it is not conceivable that a Prisoner's Rights Supervisor should be appointed by government. A figure of such an authority is either independent or unable to play its role properly. So we will soon be talking about this, but in the meantime, Minister, I would ask you to start considering this issue because it will be a very important meeting which must also be addressed in full respect of the international agreements that the Italian Parliament has taken on and which will also be respected in this respect. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u36	Madam President, Minister, first of all, thank you for your report. I realize how problematic the situation of justice is in our country, which many international statistics show. But today I want to start (I will not just focus on this subject, because there are issues that prescind from the current Government and that involve all the previous ones) saying that certainly too many people forget that someone, in these twenty years, has ruled our country. Now we are all called out, all to look at a radiant future, for which new institutional initiatives are being put in place; but everyone forgets where we come from, at least compared to the last twenty years, which leave an extremely difficult situation of justice, which is too convenient to download on the last arrival. This year, the issue of the prison emergency has been addressed. No intervention was decisive, but woe if we do not see that the glass is also half full, and not only half empty. As regards the prison emergency, the important role played by the prison police and the state of necessity in which we have addressed the problems was rightly underlined. Today we voted on an important measure, which will certainly return to the House's examination, from which it came. We cannot fail to see the level of legal civilization that we have achieved today by voting on this measure. We cannot forget the decree-law No. 78 of 2013 on the execution of the sentence. We must remember that at first reading there is a provision on precautionary measures and that there is also an empty provision on prisons. Nor can we forget how it has been tackled, with firmness and common sense, with just flexibility, which took into account the needs of the territories and the functionality of the offices, the great theme of judicial geography, which was undoubtedly one of the important results of the Monti Government and Minister Severino. Competitions for access to the judiciary have been reopened; the time limits for honorary judges have been extended and more of them have been identified than before. The telematic process has been strengthened, which has found so many resistances, also from my category, that of lawyers, who still today struggles to use certified e-mail (PEC) and to send memoirs electronically, as if we were still a Third World country and not a European country. Measures on the conciliation media have been reintroduced in order to alleviate the civil burden; auxiliary judges have been introduced into the appeals courts; and the tool of the internship of young graduates in law has been used. Alternative measures to prison detention have also been identified and, in this regard, I have already mentioned the measure adopted at today's afternoon sitting. The problem, however, is not only to respond to the appeal of the Head of State or to the call made by the European Union, through numerous infringement procedures. The problem is that a country of 60 million inhabitants, which recalls its tradition of law, which is considered the cradle of Europe and civilization - and which is indeed the cradle of Europe and civilization - must do so for its own sake and certainly not because someone imposes it from the outside or because it is imposed by the highest crater of the Republic. I therefore believe that this year we have done something good and I believe that - although it is said: "Out of the rain, Government thief" - even the Letta Government has had much merit, in all that has been done in ten months (never in nine months, since the Government installed itself). I therefore believe that this must be noted, in favour of the Government and therefore also of the Minister, who has held this responsibility. However, this is the report on the state of justice and we should open, in this country, a major debate on justice with the capital G. This means addressing, in systemic terms, the issue of the organization of justice, that is, how to separate the competences of the presidents of the court, from the administrative point of view, from the organization of the machine, perhaps introducing the figure of the manager of justice and trying to change the rules according to which magistrates and collaborators work within the structures. I believe that those who trample every day on the soil of the courts, for a few years, know what I am talking about and, again, I repeat what I said in a debate last week: a good connoisseur, we need very few words! We must, however, raise our eyes, because, if we just talk about bad justice, as we often talk about bad health, then we must remember that malasanity undoubtedly exists, but just as in that case we must remember that we are, in the analysis of the OECD, the country with the second best health care in the world, we must also remember that it is too convenient to talk about bad justice and not remember what the problems of justice are in Italy. We know that in criminal justice there is the great theme of the mandatory prosecution; there is the great theme of the separation of careers; there is the great theme of how to deal, in civil terms, with the transition from a justice that has often been used politically, in order to assert the control of justice over legality, in an objective justice, which is the instrument to prosecute crimes, to fight illegality and to do, of our country, a normal country, which is not, even as far as justice is concerned. The system of appeal must therefore be revised; there is the problem of the enforceability of judgments; there is the problem of the revision of the summer suspension of terms: I would like to understand what the meaning of this Baroque heritage still has, of a time that is no longer there, of a month and a half in which no activity in justice can be carried out because justice is on vacation; there is the problem of the strengthening of the deflated effectiveness, of alternative rites. We must decide whether we want to become a modern country from the point of view of justice, and we must understand if we still have to rely - as a lawyer - on the guilds and on the balance between the guild of lawyers and the guild of magistrates or if we want to become a country that looks to the interests of citizens. Yet we know that this majority and this government are struggling to put such an overall reform on the agenda. This is the great limit of the current political system. We cannot be estranged from the difficulty with which we have to deal, which is the weakness of the political system; the weakness of majorities arising from the emergency, which remain prisoners of the emergency and which cannot, therefore, address certain issues. Then it becomes very hypocritical the attitude on the part of the opposition, who did not want to compete, at the moment when they could, to form governments of perspective, of legislature, and by the individual members of majority or opposition who speak abstractly within these classrooms without realizing instead what is the political condition that we all have to take on. This is one of the great Italian themes. Therefore, in expressing appreciation for our work, in Parliament, in relation to the problems we have been able to face, trying to understand the reasons why we cannot face certain other much more systemic problems, which really call all of us to the change of system... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator. Sunta (SPI). I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that we must note the accompanying action that the Government has taken over the last nine months, because it has been, in any case, under the conditions given, an action which is certainly marked by difficulties, but also by great commitment. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Sangalli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u37	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u38	Madam President, as I wish to deal extensively with the question raised by the Minister's report, I would like to add a part of my speech to the proceedings of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u39	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u40	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I want to start with what I think is the essential point of our situation. If we consider the progress of Italian justice according to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, according to the international conventions inspired by it and according to the canons adopted by international bodies founded on it, we must issue a very harsh judgment against our country. Nothing more harms the right to justice than the slowness of trials, despite the principle of reasonable duration provided for in the Constitution; but it is also the economic appetite of our country that is affected. With four years of waiting for civil cases, seven years for criminal cases, 6 million civil trials delayed cost Italy 96 billion euros in terms of lack of wealth; against this, according to data from the European Commission for the efficiency of justice related to 2008, Italy allocates to the functioning of the judicial system about 0.19% of GDP. The Confindustria Study Centre in 2011 estimates that disposing of the enormous amount of judicial practices would yield to our economy 4.9% of GDP, but it would be enough to cut down even by only 10% the time to resolve the causes in order to earn 0.8% of GDP per year. According to the World Bank's 2012 Doing Business Report, the flaws in our civil justice cause us to lose 1% of GDP per year. For times and effectiveness of resolution of civil contracts our country is placed in 158th place out of 183. Snail justice costs about 371 euros per company and delays cost Italian companies about 2.3 billion euros per year (according to an estimate of the "Il Sole 24 Ore"). The average cost borne by Italian companies represents about 30% of the value of the dispute, compared with 19% of the OECD average. To recover a credit you need: 1,210 days in Italy, 515 in Spain, 406 in China, 399 in England, 394 in Germany, 331 in France, 300 in the United States. Ours, as we see, is the country with the much more inefficient judicial system among the most advanced countries. It is therefore a justice that arrives late and badly to affect the surrounding reality, sometimes without even giving the certainty of a fair decision; the judicial discretion, that is, the power conferred on the judge to choose between two or more alternatives, each conforming to the law, represents a question: it is like playing one terno to the lot when starting a case. I should like to draw your attention to the urgent need for serious reform on the civil liability of magistrates. It's on the agenda of the Senate Justice Commission. I believe that we can have a preferential lane to address this issue which is one of the many Italian anomalies compared to the other legal systems. Alongside this, Minister, there are other issues which have been going on for years and which have already referred to Mr Susta. I am referring, for example, to the question of the separation of careers between the court and the investigating judiciary. This is an issue that continues to interfere in the political debate and which also alters judicial decisions in their essentiality because there is always the suspicion that there are exchanges, connivances, indirect and non-positive relations between the two judicial responsibilities. This is an issue which we believe, although it has disappeared from the Italian political debate and, in particular, in the parliamentary classrooms, it must be dealt with quickly because we have to resolve problems that have been going on for too long. Minister, there is also a need to deal further with the issues - of which you must acknowledge - which you are dealing with both with the decrees of the Government and with the support of Parliament's legislative initiatives. We need more coordination. We cannot have the Senate that tends to deal with a certain topic and the House that does the same. The competences and contents overlap and the measures of the Government are added, as we saw in the end of 2013 with the decree emptied prisons. It is an important and essential initiative, but a minimum of coordination is needed to avoid confusion between the legislator and the public, who no longer understands what we are doing. I want to conclude with a fundamental consideration, leaving out the others. Minister, in giving you the courageous action you are taking in your Dicastery, we want to call for greater respect for Parliament's point of view. On the question of the reform of judicial geography, I personally, and we, as a political force, record an insensitivity to what is a non-corporative, not territorial, not party, but an Assembly of a parliamentary institution such as the Senate, and I believe I can also speak on behalf of my colleagues in the House. From this point of view, we cannot accept this delaying tactic. The reform is right; it has been dealt with in a positive, rapid way. There are some issues that need to be corrected: we need to correct them, without waiting for the ministerial technocracy to be praised! From this point of view we cannot accept that there are officials of the Ministry who prevent you from acting in order to correct the dysfunctions that are before everyone's eyes: the credibility of your Ministry and the reform itself is at stake. Citizens are willing to sacrifice, but they cannot be useless or demential sacrifices; they cannot be sacrifices that deny the right to justice. I spoke before quick justice, which must also be close. I do not say at home, but it must not be prevented, because the costs of having justice, beyond those of the lawyer and those of tax deriving from the procedural acts, become unsustainable for those who have to move to protect their rights. From this point of view, Minister, do not take this position of mine as an outlet. We have already tabled a motion to the Senate for you to speak on the points which the Senate's Justice Commission has unitedly placed as essential for you to have the support of this House on the reform. An attitude of rigidity on those points will provoke a reaction, which will be to question the reform as a whole, because this House cannot accept insensitivity or deafness that go beyond the right, beyond the legitimate. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Albertini, Puppato and Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u41	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u42	Madam President, Minister, I listened carefully this morning, and after your words this afternoon I really hope that the reform season, which would seem to mark the political life of our country over the next year, which is said to be the basic reason for the legislature we are going through, will understand, in addition to the constitutional reform, electoral and the issues we are talking about these days, also the attempt to tackle once and for all in a structural way the great issue of the reform of justice. I really hope so, partly because I have the impression that it is not correct to say that we are going to the abyss, in the sense that we are probably already in the abyss; Europe has noticed this very well and the judgments of the European Court, from this point of view, are not merely alarm bells but real impositions on our country. The logic of all these years speaks of an overall and general failure. We are faced with a real crisis of civil and criminal justice and prisons, we are faced with problems that we have not been able to respond to, and the victims, of course, are millions of people. We are faced with an unprecedented situation, which sees our country in 150th place, think well, out of 183 countries in the world relative to the duration and the times of the trials. We also see an overall increase in the costs of access to justice, which obviously means greater inequality, greater difficulties, social inequality before the law. We also record a truly paradoxical situation whereby 80% of the crimes, according to statistics, remain without author, 40% of the prisoners serve preventive imprisonment and many of these, as we know, will be acquitted. In short, a real devastating panorama, to which is added the dramatic criticism of these days. Senator Cirinna has done well to quote the emblematic and dramatic story of the three-year-old in relation to the long time lost during these months in being able to give answers to a topic like this. Just as the 'ndrangheta, without any fear, commits one of the most heinous acts of its existence, in the same hours the head of the leaders, subject to 41- bis in the safest department of the prison of Opera, studied all over the world as it is no more ultra of the prison security, threatens a prosecutor and probably does so through another prisoner, Alberto Lorusso, perhaps piloted by the secret services. If it weren't true, it would look like the script of a horror movie. Of course, in this devastating picture there are the atavic vices of this country. I talked about it again this morning. Minister, I would like to remind you of the reason why I attacked you a while ago on the Ligresti affair when we discussed it in this House. In this country, despite everything, despite the work that you are doing and of which I acknowledge, recognizing that on the subject of prisons and overcrowding this government has taken a step forward from the past, continues to remain as big as a home the problem of the perception of justice. That's what I want to talk to you about. There is nothing to do, there is still a very substantial, very significant part of the Italian population that imagines justice at two speeds: the justice of the A series, the one that concerns a category of people of this country, and the justice of the B series, which instead concerns the vast majority of citizens. Why is this happening, Minister? Because in the course of these years the politics of justice that has been made in this country by the governments, of center-right in particular, but unfortunately also with grave faults of the center-left, has been in one sense. I pinned it to myself, because I was really grounded in the things my colleague from Forza Italia said today about class justice. That's right, you're right. I agree with you. The amazing thing I asked myself is, where were you all these years? Where was my colleague from Forza Italia exactly when it happened? [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] , as happened in this country, that at the same time laws (the same law, not different laws), such as the former Cirielli, who on the one hand saved the excellent prisoner Cesare Previti and, on the other hand, sent the poor Christians, the addicts, the drug addicts, the clandestine, branding them as repeated relapses considered rejected by society? Think of you, in the same law this happened, that is, the plastic representation precisely of a series A justice and of a series B justice, of a guaranteed justice up to impunity towards the guaranteed and of justice instead of justice to the poor Christs. I really want us to talk about this, talk about how we overcome the shame of this country represented, over the years, by the almost 30-35 ad personam laws that have been approved. I would also like to overcome the shame of the laws that are the real responsibility of overcrowding. I will not stop reminding this House, although I agree with the President of the Republic when he talks about imagining instruments such as amnesty and indult, which I think are necessary today to alleviate the suffering in our country's prisons. But I also think that those instruments are of no use - we have already tried this on our own when Parliament launched the indult in 2006 - if they are not accompanied by a structural reform of the laws that have created overcrowding. This morning we made a good gesture, because this Parliament, although it probably could have done better by simply approving the text of the Senate Justice Commission without amending it, at least it has turned the crime of illegality into an administrative offence. But it will remain only a fine gesture, Minister, the transformation of that crime into an administrative offense if we do not take the two laws that are most responsible for the disaster of these years, the Bossi-Fini law and the Fini-Giovanardi law, laws that have been built exactly in this perspective, that is exactly from the perspective of a country closed in its fears, unable to put in place a real cultural turning point. How can we fail to see that we need to radically break up with what has happened all these years? We need a real cultural breakthrough. I can't take it anymore than a policy that is unable to build a common sense. [[Comments of Senator Crosio]] and of a policy which, precisely because it is weak, because it is probably made less strong by the loss of credibility of all these years, can only follow the prevailing moods of the citizens' belly. It is not enough simply to follow the common sense. If that is the case, Minister, politics is of no use; politics must have a much higher ambition, it must build a common sense, it must build cultural hegemony, it must also be able to challenge measures and things on which it probably faces a difficulty with public opinion: this means making politics; this means giving this Parliament the dignity it deserves. Otherwise we do not complain if then someone thinks that this Parliament, this Senate, can be cancelled with a sponge stroke, because, indeed, the country will not have any nostalgia for them. I think that this Republican Parliament still has great value and that it is still the place where the democracy of this country lives, I also believe that democracy lives if politics does not give up its historical task, if I can say so. If you then make other choices and follow other paths, then it really serves little. I would like to discuss this with you during the months to come. If we do this, we can still have a role and a function. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u43	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u44	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for explaining to us his report, the data he has given us and the issues he has dealt with in the current situation of Italian justice. There are many problems and many critical issues to be faced and solved. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have heard of justice, and we are still facing the same issues, whether good or bad. The Minister himself speaks of a system in distress and a clogging of the judicial offices, and when we speak of a system in distress we refer to a situation, I dare say, in some ways dramatic, which concerns many aspects, both in the civil and criminal sectors. In June, according to the Minister's words, there were 5,257,693 civil proceedings, while there were 3,500,000 criminal proceedings. It is enough to attend courtrooms to be able to understand how these numbers are then realized in practice, which means that to date the average duration of a civil trial is very high, and it is a media that certainly does not allow to give protection to the right and the subjective rights that have been mentioned. The problem, however, basically lies in the mechanism that is adopted and in the solutions that are being prepared to solve the problems of the whole system. We talked about clogging up trials, the situation of suffering civil proceedings, prisons. In this parliamentary term, however, since work began, we have only taken action with measures that we call empty prisons, when there are other issues that need to be addressed. We must also begin to talk about civil law and civil procedural law, but so far you have taken measures that do not see us simply as opposed to them but really find us on the barricades. This summer a decree-law was issued; another one was launched in December; today we have discussed another. We realize that the problem of prison overcrowding is being tackled in a way I dare say - I am sorry Minister - clumsy. You called the results of these measures encouraging: in December there were just over 64,000 prisoners and in January they reduced to 62,000. For us in the North League, these results are not encouraging at all, but extremely worrying. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are talking about the release of people who have committed crimes. The measure approved this morning provides, for example, for house imprisonment for crimes punished up to five years in prison. We are talking about early release allowed by a decree-law, which certainly led to the release of many criminals. We have noted the problems of the Torreggiani judgment and we are well aware of the consequences that could lead to a failure to respect the conditions that this Europe imposes on us. I come back to what my colleague De Cristofaro of SEL said when he spoke of the perception of justice; here, I would like to use the same word in saying: what is the perception of justice? The perception of justice today, whether by a lawyer, a person who is a victim of crime or any other person, is that we are constantly faced with measures that provide benefits. Moreover, these measures are not even systematically and comprehensively analysed: as we have seen from July to the present day, measures are constantly coming, so we lose almost the knowledge of what the consequences of their application may be. An operator of the law no longer knows what will be the consequence of the work of his client (who comes from him to consult), because it can happen that in the space of two or three months, or even in the space of one month, the legislation is changed. As we of the Northern League Group constantly say, we try to put ourselves in the perspective of the citizen and in the perspective of the person offended, the victim of crime. To see these measures adopted certainly does not fuel the feeling of trust in justice; instead, there is the opposite perception, that justice is not going forward with its own purpose. This continuous pace of change, this legislation that continues to change, fundamentally affects the principle of certainty of punishment, which does not mean reading the rules and having the certainty to go to house arrests. At a time when a person commits the fact, in fact, he is not even well aware of what the consequences of his act may be; even the victim of the crime may not know exactly what the consequences will be for the offender. That is why we have made a tough opposition, and we will continue to do so. At a time like this - we repeat it all the time - when we are talking about the economic crisis, when people lose their jobs and firms fail, when we have the feeling that we are in a moment of temporaryity, we are then hearing, in the newspapers and whatever else, about the adoption of measures such as these which continue to be launched. What is the feeling of solidity, what is the feeling of security that a citizen can have in the face of all this? Let's ask that question. You understand the problem of prison overcrowding, you can't deny it exists. It is a problem that needs to be addressed: we talked about the dignity of prisoners, the situation, and of course what is foreseen in the Torreggiani judgment. We welcome what the Minister said about the Prison Plan, namely that there is the intention and the forecast of a re-evaluation of the building and prison assets, as well as the creation of new infrastructure. We believe that this can be the only and only solution to this problem: to tackle it seriously with the construction of new buildings, new prisons and new institutions. To adopt these provisional measures for us is absolutely deleterious; it is deleterious precisely in the perception that ordinary people can have of what is coming out of these classrooms. But let us remember that there is not only the problem of prisons, because it seems that we are dealing mainly with this. There is also the problem of the duration of the trials (the Minister also mentioned this); one is aware of this problem. The increase in the staff of the judiciary will certainly give a boost, but the structure of the civil process must be tackled upstream. The interventions adopted in the December Decree-Law are certainly a sign and a beginning, but this is a solution that cannot be exhaustive and that cannot solve the problem. It is therefore hoped that it will insist more on the acceleration of the processes, that we can really get out of this Italian shame to see years dedicated to causes, also because this, as the Minister recalled, discourages investments by foreign subjects, who are certainly not well prepared to do any kind of intervention in Italy, knowing that a recovery of debts may involve these delays. However, even the system itself, the type of legislation, is always very complex and Bourbon. When it comes to reducing litigation (this famous 4%), I can only join with what my colleague Mr Giarrusso has already said, that it is easy to think that there has actually been a decrease in litigation, but I myself would not advise a client to appeal to the judge today, with an increase in the cost of the unified contribution, with the outcomes that are not known, with the timing that there are and especially because we are faced with situations in which getting to the end of the month is difficult and even more difficult is paying the lawyer. Therefore, the increase in the costs associated with the process can only disagree with us. For these reasons, we really hope that we will take responsibility for all these problems and that they will be dealt with systematically and - hopefully - at least definitively. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u45	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u46	Madam Minister, it emerges from your speech and most of the debate that is being held with regard to the issues of justice, but above all to the enormous pending burden, an aspect that we might call corporate, efficient. In short, the time of justice must be reduced; justice must be increasingly expensive, because this discourages the citizen from turning to the judge; one must reason in terms of costs and benefits. I am perfectly convinced that these are visions to which a minister is - in a sense - confronted, because they are processes whose maturation is extremely slow; however, before an approach such as this, we must take proper reflections, because Parliament is precisely the place where we must select the truly fundamental values. I believe that the exercise of judicial activities is a function which the State must necessarily carry out in the interests of its citizens, together with a few other functions, but which are of direct and exclusive relevance to the State; I also believe that the State must not delegate to anyone the exercise of such delicate functions, because the exclusivity of the jurisdiction at the head of the State also gives rise to legal certainty, as well as to what we could define as the basis of social peace. When the motivation of a judgment, of a civil or criminal judge, is seen as a foothold on the road of a justice that would otherwise be freed from these who seem to be in a certain sense the ties of the past, it is evidently forgotten to remember that the motivation of the judgment is nothing more than the provision of a judge who explains to a citizen why he is right or wrong. These are functions that are absolutely necessary, that no one can afford to consider as something that hinders a path of justice that would otherwise be facilitated. Just as we must remember that justice, precisely by virtue of its uneliminable social function, cannot have a high economic cost, because that would mean excluding a large part of the citizens from a function which - I repeat for the second time - is one of the fundamental prerequisites of social peace. I would not, therefore, make a quantitative speech of an economic nature, nor would I refer to a relationship between costs and benefits, because it is necessary to understand definitively that the principles of the company and the economy cannot be transferred to the world of justice, which is a world of values in which the quality of the measure is the essential element to be sought. This must be highlighted jointly. Madam Minister, I certainly cannot revisit all the passages in your report, because the time allocated to us is not such as to allow us to speak on everything. In addition to this need that - let me repeat once again - it enhances the human aspects, those behind a judicial affair and that cannot be translated according to numerical or quantitative entities, there is another aspect on which I intend to speak briefly; Senator Caliendo mentioned it and I allow myself to deal with another aspect of this issue, out of proportion from the quantitative point of view: I am referring to the relationship between justice and politics. Well, the Turin Court recently raised a question of constitutional legitimacy - perhaps the most important issue of the legal debate in recent years - and considered binding, in relation to the problem of succession between criminal rules over time, not only the law, but also the previous case law; therefore, according to the Turin Court, the previous case law, if favourable, is as much as a law in relation to the provision to be applied over time and to the identification of the most favourable provision. In short, the Turin court - supported, among other things, by a judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation - affirmed the principle that the legislative power belongs also to the judicial authority, so that its judgments and its judgments would participate in the binding effectiveness of the law as to the most favourable law to be applied, in accordance with the scheme of Article 2 of the Criminal Code. We know that the Constitutional Court has rejected this interpretation, saying that the legislative power is exclusive to Parliament. It is clear, however, that we would be insensitive and, I would add, inattentive to the problems concerning not only the world of justice, but - more politically - the relations between justice and legislative power, if we failed to understand that the judiciary, now in a completely official way, calls for a sort of division of legislative power with the world of politics. We must therefore ask ourselves why the problem, although provisionally resolved by the Constitutional Court, will arise. Let me then ask myself and put a rhetorical question to the Minister, in the sense of asking: what will remain of the legislative power once the latter's power (that of a monopoly as to the formation of the law) is not only to be further called into question, but even to be excluded from a ruling by a future Constitutional Court that should affirm the principle that the judgments of the judge are also binding on the determination of the most favourable discipline to be applied? I believe that between the first question - the question that efficiency cannot be the prism through which to look at the world of justice (because there we must first look at human and political values, at what lies behind the need for a citizen to resort to the judge) - and the second, that is to say, the now declared dispute over the legislative monopoly in the Chambers, there is in fact a red thread. On the one hand, the reduction of recourse to the judge leads to a problem of democracy, and we must say so clearly, because otherwise we would betray those few functions that are now recognized in a legislative assembly, that is to say, to get into the heart of the problems of politics, but above all how citizens are treated (but that is another problem). In short, in addition to becoming impossible the recourse to the judge, one could come to the assertion that the legislative assemblies are useless, because the jurisprudence can essentially solve the problem, according to a vision that comes also from Europe, for which the precedent of the judge is law, or at least equivalent to the law and is superpotent to it. In addition to this - let me conclude by including this subject - it may be considered (and the political power does not even seem to reflect on this subject) that the number of Members of Parliament is now an unbearable issue and that it will have to be drastically reduced, not only by eliminating a House (solution for a shared verse, but also an inevitable verse), but also by reducing the number of remaining Members of Parliament within the Chamber that will remain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u47	Conclude, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u48	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Here I raise a question of democracy: one way towards the judge will not be able to appeal to him, or at least to have a reasoned judgment will have to pay; on the other hand, the legislative power will be in a vacuum, because it will be substantially replaced by the judicial authority, and the representativeness of the Chambers will be excluded. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u49	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr Chancellors, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the report; it seems to be the report of a normal minister in a normal country, or at least almost normal: a country where justice works, perhaps with some problems, but it works. Too bad it's not like that. On the contrary, this is the State where one of its most brilliant servants, the magistrate Nino Di Matteo, the one that Totò Riina wants killed before he arrives at the end of his investigation on the negotiation between the State and the Mafia, for security reasons he has had to give up the transfer to the Milan court, and the solidarity of the institutions arrives - these are his words that I also do mine - to spit and bite. This is the country where the penalty discount for good conduct reaches 75 days every one hundred and eighty days of imprisonment (almost half), but only until 2015. Next inmates will have to deal with it. This is the country that devotes very little resources to the programs of protection of the repentant, almost that it intends to dissuade from taking this path useful for justice, but obviously not as useful for the members of this political majority. This is the country that has the most expensive electronic bracelets in the world. Our country is where three judges are needed to decide whether to arrest a criminal. It takes then 23 for each arrested: one pm, three gip to decide of the capture, three judges for the court of freedom, five of cassation for the appeal against the decisions of the court of freedom, three of first degree and five of cassation. Yet this is the country where the criminal trial lasts on average from eight to nine years, against one to two years, just to quote one example, in the United Kingdom. There aren't enough judges and they're mishandled. But above all, Madam Minister, this is the country where a huge job is done to condemn a corruptor, a tax fraudster, a forgery of budgets, a polluter at first instance; then a huge job is done to condemn him to second degree, and then, of course, everything is prescribed. There are as many as 130,000 trials per year that are cancelled with the prescription. But I ask you, Minister, what does it cost the State to do all these trials for nothing? Unlike many other countries, in Italy the prescription begins when the crime is committed and does not stop during the trial. Since the duration of the prescription is less than the average duration of the trials, in our country those who have never been convicted will probably never be. The defense, then, tries in every way to waste time - Ghedini teaches us - in the hope of getting to the prescription quickly. In our country only a small minority of trials follow the abbreviated rites. There has been a lack of a fundamental principle called the certainty of punishment. But if you commit a crime you have to expect to be punished, otherwise the entire society is given a wrong message. In our country there is no certainty of the penalty: it is mostly replaced by the certainty of the prescription. According to the OSCE, the Italian economy does not grow due to widespread corruption and corruption prolific due to the prescription from the crime. But if justice no longer prevails, Madam Minister, what kind of society are we going to create in our country? What, then, does the Minister intend to do to overcome this all-Italian shame? I would have been delighted to find mention of the problem of prescription in your report, but I did not find anything. I hope you realize that before it's too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to you, Minister for Justice, on various occasions (both at the hearing in the Justice Commission and in this House), I have a pile of emotions. In particular, today I must acknowledge, Madam Minister, intellectual honesty. I recognise intellectual honesty because I do not want to think that what I have heard in your report is exclusively the result of your conviction or your scientific knowledge: I think it is rather the result of collaborations that are offered to you. Mrs. Minister, why did I say a pile of emotions? A pile of emotions because I feel an emotion of tenderness at the moment when I read that she can imagine that from the reform of the judicial geography that she drew you can get a recovery in terms of efficiency of the Italian procedural system. Why isn't that so, Minister? It is not so because, even before imagining this reform, as I have already had the opportunity to say on other occasions, it was not done by the Ministry that necessary work - which instead had to be done - of investigation on the territory for a timely verification and examination of the merging courts: if they were suitable to bear the judicial burden, the files, the offices and the judges of the assembled courts. All this has not been done, Minister, and no distance investigation has been made. You are talking about recovering resources, and I believe that your conviction will then be thwarted by reality. In fact, at a time when the judicial office is being moved to over 100 kilometres from a court (in prison) it will certainly be higher than the previous ones. Madam Minister, the Senate Justice Commission has dismissed an opinion; Senator Filippin - alas! - said earlier that he was fired unanimously. I am very sorry to become a ghost in the eyes of Senator Filippin, who forgets that I did not vote for that opinion. I'm very sorry because I probably don't deserve attention both politically and personally for Senator Filippin. Minister, that opinion may be carefully evaluated by you and may give answers to the various questions put to you. From Sorrento you have received a request for a meeting from the mayor and the administrative authorities: Madam Minister, give an answer to that important city of our country. You also said that the European Commission's latest report on the efficiency of justice places the Italian judiciary's response at the top in terms of productivity. He claimed it, and it probably is, indeed it certainly is. I would point out, however, that Italians are not so interested in the efficiency response in terms of productivity, but rather in terms of quality: that is the survey that needs to be done. In his report he made his conviction clear that the judicial burden, even civil, has increased as the catalogue of subjective rights has grown which, by their nature, can only be satisfied through the judicial channels. I do not know, Madam Minister, who gave you this suggestion: to him I would like to ask what right can find satisfaction outside the courts. I do not think there are any other places where we can protect, assert and claim citizens' rights. (at 19.18) (Falanga followed). Moreover, he spoke of an increase in subjective rights, which I do not understand, and he also added that it is due to their extension to situations linked to complex economic and social interests. Well, although there had been an extension of legitimate interest under subjective law, this circumstance would certainly not have led to a reduction in the burden of justice: you know, in fact, that legitimate interest is also protected in the premises of administrative courts. With regard to the increase in the workload, you referred to an increase in quarrels and from it - you have come to this conclusion - would derive the slowness of the judges and the fear that the overexposition of the judiciary might alter the delicate institutional balance that must mark the relationship between the powers of the State. Madam Minister, the balance between the powers of the State is not disharmonized and altered by an excessive judicial burden, but rather by the decisions of the various courts and courts of our country: they are the decisions on the substance that can alter the balance between the powers of the State. With regard to the honorary judiciary, various legal measures for the reform of the peace judges are being examined by the Justice Commission. I hope that you, Madam Minister, will now listen to the social partners, i.e. the peace judges and lawyers, for this important reform, unlike the way you have decided to proceed with regard to judicial geography. Madam Minister, I return to the accumulation of emotions: I am now afraid of what you have just said. It scares me to imagine that in our country there can be a decision of a judge completely without motivation, or in any case with a shriveled motivation, and even more scary to imagine that the motivation can be asked later. I wonder when, Madam Minister, and when the time-limits for the appeal would come into effect, should this statement ever be requested later and for payment. The Minister said that the increase in unified contributions in 2013 resulted in a reduction in the judicial burden, from 4% in the courts, to 6% in the court of appeal. Certainly the data is correct, but the problem is to understand what has led to the reduction of the judicial burden. It has probably been determined, as some colleagues have already said, by the difficulty of some citizens to bring justice, because the costs have become excessive. Madam Minister, I would like to mention another idea of yours, which you anticipated in various quarters, namely the appeal judgment given to a single judge, thereby repealing the collegial decision by three judges. I would like to remind you, Minister, that in our judicial system the degree of appeal has always been entrusted to a college of three judges, because this is nevertheless an essential element of guarantee in the decision. You see, Madam Minister, I recognize all the intellectual honesty possible, but I have to ring a bell, because the emotions that I have felt and that I feel, whenever I hear its determinations, its convictions and its programs regarding the justice service, I believe are common to all Italians. In fact, I believe that all Italians, or at least most of them, think and feel what I feel when I hear about paid justice, about a further increase in the unified contribution and the fact that, if you want the motivation of the sentence, you have to pay further. I believe, among other things, that this is unconstitutional, even if the constitutional profiles will eventually be examined when its measures will be effective in our country. Madam Minister, I have just told you that I recognize you so much intellectual honesty: I am sure and convinced of what I am saying. Even Senator Albertini, with whom I have spoken often, has determined this conviction in me, and this feeling towards him (of course I refer to when Senator Albertini speaks, with the voice of the Minister). But please, Madam Minister, listen to us: listen to this Parliament. We will soon be voting on an important act for our country, and I am very sorry that the Senate House is so deserted. Probably the theme and the program that has come to represent us today have not aroused excessive interest, or perhaps - and this worries me - everyone knows, like me, that although we speak, you, with your recognized determination, will go on your way, in the realization of your project, that - I am very sorry to have to say - I cannot share. [[Applause from Senators Iurlaro and D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u53	The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta, and No 2, Senator De Petris and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed, the motions for resolutions No 3, Senator Buccarella and other Senators, and No 4, Senator Bitonci and other Senators have been tabled. I note that the motion for a resolution No 4, signed by Senator Bitonci and other senators, is not acceptable because its content essentially constitutes a motion of individual distrust, the examination of which is bound to its own procedures and times, which were excluded, moreover, from the vote of the Assembly at the end of the afternoon sitting on the motion of distrust, during which the request for urgent procedure put forward by Senator Santangelo was precisely rejected. I call on the Minister for Justice, Dr Cancellieri, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u54	Mr President, on motion for a resolution No 1, my opinion is in favour. On the motion for a resolution No 2, I am in favour, provided that the point of the operative part of the motion for a resolution is deleted: 'Abrogate Article 10a of the Single Text on Immigration as a matter of urgency' (the cd. "clandestine crime") and intervene on the Single Text on drugs, as last amended by the cd. "Fini-Giovanardi" - a law on which, moreover, depends a decision of the Constitutional Court - providing artificial criminal responses. For the remaining parties, I give a favourable opinion. As far as motion No 3 is concerned, I am against point 1, in favour of points 2 and 3, in favour of point 4, in favour of points 5 and 6, in favour of point 7 and in favour of points 8, 9 and 10. Therefore, there is a willingness to enhance the legal patronage of the poor; there is already an overall realization of the decriminalization extended to crimes of not particular social alarm; there is a willingness to review the procedural system aimed at reducing the time of the process. There will be timely action on these issues to achieve an absolute improvement in the justice system. It can only be shared that an impetus in the process definition has a significant impact on the economic system, and in particular on business. The Ministry's action is directed, with the presentation of two interventions on the civil process, precisely to reduce the time of civil judgment. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I have already stated in my report that I will shortly present a draft law to simplify procedures, in order to combine guarantees, efficiency and effectiveness of the process.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u55	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u58	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that the debate has been more than comprehensive. What I had to say, I have already said in general discussion; so, recalling that speech in full, I repeat what I have already anticipated, namely the vote in favour of the Civic Choice Group for Italy to the resolution that we have tabled together with other majority forces, appreciating the content of the report and, while recalling its critical remarks, I believe that overall we can vote in peace on that text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u61	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, although I am not an expert on this matter, I have tried to make up for my basic deficiency by listening carefully to the Minister's report. To be honest, it seemed to me more like a due relationship, a task, a necessity, an obligation. I did not find you, in fact, neither expertia cordis, nor a passionate cue, nor a language that escaped from the grayness of legal semantics. You have presented us with a number of problems in the field of justice, but you could have also talked about the various malfunctions that occur in the state, as it is organized in this nation, in transport or in the public service. He spoke of a series of reforms for the efficiency of the system and the improvement of productivity yield. I realize that you, as well as the other ministers, are having to fry the fish with water. I am referring to the employees of the Ministry and the magistrates themselves who, in some ways, are paid for the single day of presence. You cannot impose, because it would be torn apart by the unions and other consorteries if only you could propose a parametric remuneration according to objective and verifiable criteria from the outside on the good performance and productivity of the offices. I don't want to drag it out because some of my colleagues are showing me to tighten up: the time is late and, therefore, I will not read the prepared intervention, but I want to tell you something. If a Martian had landed in this House and had listened to his report, he would have taken the impression that justice is a gang-banged carriage, like all areas in which the State has a privacy, a monopoly that manages without any criteria of efficiency, quality, merit or productivity. Beyond that, he would not realize the real problem that attacks justice in Italy and that concerns the citizen: not only that concerning the dysfunction of the judicial offices, the biblical slowness so that to end a civil or criminal trial it takes many years, but that of the functioning of justice, that is the right process. In fact, we have the problem of bringing back within the guarantees and rights of the citizen a trial in which the prosecution and the defence are equal parts and the judge is really third. The question arises because, at a time when the constitutional dictation has given the magistrates powers without constraints and responsibilities, we are faced with a certain judiciary that takes over its tasks. What surgeon wouldn't account for his operation if he left a dead man on the operating table? Which professional in this nation wouldn't account for their mistakes? He would take this into account and answer it personally: he would not delegate the State, which himself suffered this discrasia, this affront. In the moment that justice is administered in the name of the people, the State itself is called to repair, in serious cases, the errors of the magistrates. Madam Minister, do we live in the same nation? Have we ever seen public prosecutors who, after advertising themselves with trials in the air and ended up in thin air, have become councillors, parliamentarians, regional councillors? Have we ever seen prosecutors who, having stopped the toga, founded political parties? Have you ever seen jurisdiction bent to interests that have nothing to do with justice? Have you ever been able to ascertain, as has been the case for several decades in this nation, the established habit of bending jurisdiction and the application of law to an instrument of social equalization? And not to do justice or ascertain the truth. It is a bit like school, where teachers, instead of being teachers, are welcoming, take care of the pupil's social hardships and end up becoming social workers, so many more donkeys and many less misfits probably come out of schools. But the school was established to educate people, and justice must be exercised to ascertain the truth, not to recover or restore social injustices. What about the subalternity of political power, which has now stripped itself of Article 68 of the Constitution? What did you say about all this? Absolutely nothing. So, Madam Minister, if the Minister of Justice or another Minister comes to this House, which is a legislative and political assembly, to make a note of the laundry on the things that work and on those that need to be remedied, he is missing his main task: you are a Minister of Political Appointment, you are not a prefect, an official. You must give an approach, which can also be diametrically opposed to my way of seeing and going in the direction of what Mr Casson thinks (I would not be surprised at this), but you must give a political direction to your action. You must say whether you want to organise the reform of justice by introducing the right process, by separating careers, by the responsibility of the judges or if this is not to be done because there is more to be done. I also challenge all bystanders to consider themselves safe with permanently controlled phones. Perhaps in the left hemicycle we are a little 'quieter, but in the right hemicycle we are subject to a continuous and vexatory action of interception, intimidation, especially in places where the organized underworld (Campania, Sicily, Calabria) puts anyone and unconsciously in contact with phenomena that do not belong to justice and politics. And you come here to do your homework and tell us that things don't work! Do we need the Minister of Justice to tell us that things are not working, that prisons are full of prisoners waiting for trial, that the causes are not resolved, that we wanted judicial mediation, then we removed it, then we put it back, why do not we worry about speeding things up, but probably to make some money to the immense plethora of lawyers or of "strascina chores" (as we say in Naples, the famous "strascina" (strascina chores)? Then, Minister, please send us a report next time, we will read it and express our opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u64	ALBERTINI (PI). Mr President, we agreed to contain our speeches in three to four minutes; I will try to save more time than before. It doesn't take much words to say, Minister, that she began her institutional activity in a dramatic framework, with 5,258, 000 pending civil trials, over 3 and a half million in criminal proceedings, the 150th place for the analysis of the times of justice in our country of the 180 countries considered, 65,000 prisoners out of 40,000 conceivable in the relationship between the space of the places of detention and the number of occupants. And in this short period of time it intervened with determination, rationality and commitment to rationalise precisely the judicial organization, firm from the nineteenth century. In this intervention, even painful, which has broken down some conformisms, some traditions, some comforts, have been freed of resources through the amalgamation of judicial offices and a process of functionality has begun. The supply side has also been developed. He recalled in his speech that in the decree of the doing 400 auxiliary judges were started; the honorary magistrates in the law of stability will find an extension to retain their role for another two years, and they are 2,400; the same is true of the judges of peace. An intervention has been made to reactivate the mediation process, which subtracts time from the authoritative decision and allows our country to move towards the overcoming of the conflict through the agreement. Computerization interventions have been effective; of course, they can be improved, but they are having their development. Let us now come to the question of prison: today we have voted for a historical measure, which revolutionizes the sanctioning system in our country, and it is assumed that this intervention can allow us to respect Article 27 of the Constitution on the rehabilitation of the punishment rather than punishment and free the prison population of about 4,000 entities. He recalled in his speech that there are renovations and constructions of new settlements in order to allow - I go for approximation and for sum - over 17,000 places of legal detention. I would really like to move towards the end of the surgery, to remain in the three minutes that I imposed myself. You started off with a very uphill and rude road; you have a majority that supports you with conviction; you have an undisputed capacity and institutional loyalty. We are with you, Minister, we approve of what you are doing and we encourage you to continue for the best in this direction. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u67	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, I would have expected a few replies, partly because I meant this debate, the debate on your report, a moment of real confrontation with the work that the Government is doing in this area, and also to express the views of Parliament, the Senate, my political side. I am very embarrassed to have not had the opportunity to listen to your reply, and then, not wanting to make further controversy, as my colleagues say in their capacity as rapporteurs or the representative of the Government, I turn to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u70	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Misto-SEL Group will abstain in the vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by the majority, while it is prepared to amend motion for a resolution No 2 as requested by the Minister. As we have said several times, in fact, although it is very far from the government and the parliamentary majority that supports it in many matters, which makes us strongly claim our being in opposition, on justice, on the prison problem and on the topics that we are discussing in recent months we find instead a greater political and cultural harmony. I too, however, would like to ask the Minister, as many of my colleagues have done, to go further on the issue of judicial geography, without making any concessions to localisms that are unacceptable to me too. The need for rationalization is certainly true and right, but we would like to understand better whether and where there are actually savings. I repeat, I do not share the localisms, but if criticism has emerged from many territories, even heavy ones, about both rationality and the savings resulting from the reform, perhaps we should deepen the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u73	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, following the broad debate and the considerations that have been made and the motions for resolutions tabled, I can only declare the North-League Group's and Autonomous Group's vote against them. The Minister's report has been very detailed on the many issues that qualify the Italian justice system as suffering. In the speeches under discussion, we stressed the great problem of the clogging of judicial offices, with regard to both civil and criminal trials. We have then highlighted the big problem of prison overcrowding, which has been addressed in a way that we do not share and that, indeed, we consider absolutely delety. In this regard, I hope that, as always for things done in Italian, this will also be adjusted in some way. But we fear that these release, these release, these alternative prison sentences will have negative consequences. The way in which the important issue of judicial geography was then addressed unfortunately finds us deeply at odds. The abolition of territorial law enforcement that has worked very well and which has made it possible to achieve excellent results in our opinion is an appropriate way not to increase the efficiency of the judicial system but to penalise it. I wonder if in a few years we can see some positive effects: we don't know. What we see now is what is happening in the merging courts, demonstrating what the consequences of this reform are. Many hearings are postponed to a very long time; there are many problems in the management of disputes; in the territories where local courts are seen disappear not only lawyers but also citizens are forced to make kilometers and kilometers to reach the courtrooms to which they must go. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What surprised us in particular, especially here in the Senate, is that we have drawn up an opinion such as the one that has been formulated by the Senate Justice Commission, which has seen unanimity among other things. This only confirms that we all, in a cross-cutting way, shared the need for the "resurrection" - we can call it that - of some of the suppressed courts. Unfortunately, even this unanimous opinion did not have the consequences that we expected. These corrective decrees do not know how far they will come, but they do nothing but show how, even in the way of dealing with the issue, there has been a bad management from the beginning. There had been talk from the outset, and there was an expectation in this regard, of the possibility that measures to extend or revisit the reform would be taken, until we had, in early August, come to vote in the Committee on Justice on the extension of the entry into force of the reform, which - let us remember - was not scheduled in this House, I do not think it was the fault of the North League. The reform has therefore come into force, with the effects that unfortunately we are now forced to see. We understand the problems that exist, Madam Minister, and I see that you are fully aware of them: prisons, the length of civil trials, the reform of judicial geography. Knowing the problem, however, does not mean solving it, and we believe that the solutions put in place cannot be considered as absolutely comprehensive and satisfactory with regard to the civilian and that they are absolutely harmful with regard to the criminal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u76	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, Madam Minister, the Senators of the New Right Centre will vote in favour of your report, as it retraces a year marked by the discontinuity of the vote and, for its part, marked by acts oriented in the direction which we insistently call for. You have rightly referred to our civil and legal tradition, based on the centrality of the person, of each person, of all persons. We have set ourselves up as a political movement, first of all with determination to propose humanitarian political thought, opposing it to all those forms of scientific political thought that unfortunately deposited the short century behind us. "Fiat iustitia et pereat mundus" is the perfect synthesis of what we abhor, as it denies that the person must be the measure and the ultimate goal of every human action. In Italy, as a result of involutionary processes that have been produced since the inauspicious 1970s, we cannot speak of just justice. It is not. It is not because prosecution is totally separated from a criminal policy that is transparently deliberated by the Government and Parliament. It is not because - as you have observed - the dilation, even jurisprudential, of the criminally relevant behaviors has induced an overexposition of the judiciary, which can often - I quote his words - alter the delicate institutional balance that must mark the relationship between the powers of the State. It is not so towards natural persons and legal persons, because all too often the action is mediatic, extensive, indefinite over time, rather than being sober, surgical and timely, with harmful and irreversible consequences not only on the subjects waiting for judgment, but also frequently on certain innocent third parties. It is not, therefore, when it inhibits public functions from assuming their responsibilities by timely decisions, when it delegitimizes expert functions by replacing them even in the definition of health protocols, when it culprits in circumstantial terms the activities of national security and public order. It is not the case when there is a pre-emptive hostility towards the undertaking, wrongly regarded as an activity which is immanently geared towards the exploitation of man and the environment. It is not when it projects in very long and imponderable terms the definition of commercial relations or property relationships; it is not when it subjects the relationships between the person and the State to the most total jurisprudential uncertainty. The initiative therefore becomes fundamental first of all on the side of the demand for justice, deflating with more effective sanctions the reckless litigation and making responsible for the eventual consequences of compensation and the unfounded criminal initiative. Just as it is necessary to deflate the public offer of justice, further encouraging civil mediation and finally introducing arbitration in labour disputes. Finally, it is necessary to improve as soon as possible the examination of the measures for the examination of the Chambers concerning the execution of penalties and deflation of criminally relevant behaviour and their sanctioning system. Three major events lead us to act on three emblematic nodes of our judicial anomaly. The decision of the European Court of Justice wants to make the civil liability of the State for malpractice more effective and extended: it is our duty to transpose it also in terms of the effective accountability of the magistrate for gross negligence or manifest error whenever the State has been forced to pay. Secondly, the Datagate has illuminated an abnormal dimension of the violation of confidentiality rights, in the context of which checks are required on the possible illicit involvement of national entities and finally adequate measures to protect privacy. Thirdly, the prison emergency, signalled by the President of the Republic himself, calls for the definitive approval of the measures before Parliament and for initiatives to be taken to drastically reduce that preventive detention, which is about 40% of the prison population. All awaiting more courageous constitutional reforms. A consensus, finally, we address it with reference to the functions of supervision towards the ordering professions, of which it has been able to recognize and consolidate the characteristics of third parties. In this respect, we are inspiring our proposal, which includes significant transfers of public interest functions from public administrations to professions, as we have seen in the area of justice. Madam Minister, the New Right Centre believes in conclusion that today there are no more alibis to buy improperly time compared to the known emergencies. If we want a freer, more competitive, more stable country, we need to accelerate change in such a decisive area for the common good. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u79	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, I hope that you will have the complacency and the strength to continue to follow carefully. I realize that this is not a simple test, the one in which you are forced to pay attention by the speeches of all my previous colleagues. I do not know if you remember the first hearing you held in Parliament (the government had just formed: it was before the summer) in the Senate Justice Commission. I asked her if she was going to continue government policies at the head of the Ministry, according to the choices in the matter of justice that the outgoing Government had adopted. I was saying this after here in Parliament we neo-parliamentary members of the 5 Star Movement had to vote on a measure that came from the Monti Government, the 2012 Document of Economics and Finance, voted by this Parliament in 2013. There, as a citizen and as a simple lawyer, when I read the part relating to the justice of that large document, which perhaps consisted of thousands of pages, I jumped into the chair, because for the first time I read in a government act (it was another government, not the current one), black on white, a public confession, something that was often said in the courts among the legal practitioners. It was written that the increase in the unified contribution, already adopted by the previous government at first instance, was aimed at reducing civil judicial litigation. Therefore, in a government act there was the "confession" (if we want, we can use this term in quotes, but we can also not do so) that one of the solutions adopted by the government to solve the so-called problem of justice, at least in relation to the civil sector - that is, the slope of hundreds of thousands, or indeed of millions of judgments in all the various degrees - was simply to increase the cost of access to justice for citizens. I jumped in the chair, and I remember asking you if it was your intention and in the Government's intentions to continue in that justice policy. We have not received an answer from your Ministry, either orally or in writing, but we have had it in fact, on the basis of the legislative action adopted by the Government with the decrees that we continue to stigmatize. The answer was that the Letta Government, the Government of this new Parliament, also intends to resolve the problems of justice by setting up a surgical operation for dismantling, desertification and emptying the concrete content of Article 24 of the Constitution. This happens with the increase in costs and, therefore, justice becomes censary: if you are rich, you can afford to go to a lawyer; if you are not, you have to find another solution, you have to turn to someone else and not to the justice of the State. We have found the answer in the measures which have reintroduced compulsory medium-conciliation, entrusting it to private, external bodies. Even this did not seem to us a virtuous answer. We have also had a response in the recent measures contained in the Stability Act (which has already referred to those who preceded me): the 30% cut in compensation, not only for lawyers, but also for the assistants of the magistrate, private investigators, the technical advisors of citizens admitted to legal aid. Let us remember, for those who did not know or forgot, that the citizen has the right to legal aid at the expense of the State who has incomes of less than EUR 11,000 per year. We note, therefore, that an institution guaranteeing the practical application of Article 24 of the Constitution, as well as international treaties... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Of course, it would be nice if there was a general attention, but I ask for at least a minor burn. I realize, however, the time and the fact that the time of the football match is approaching. I will try not to spend a lot of time on anyone who might be interested in other extra-parliamentary events, so that he can get out of this House soon. Finally, I would like to stress that the fact that we cut by 30% - as you, Madam Minister, will know very well - the skills entrusted to these professionals who work for the poor citizens, compared to tariffs that are already halved by law in comparison to the original tariffs or parameters, means essentially to empty and demotivate completely the professionals, lawyers and non-lawyers, who carry out their professional services in favour - precisely - of these types of citizens. It seems to us that this is also not going in the right direction. Much has already been said about judicial geography. We too have an absolutely contrary position to the way in which linear cuts have operated what the country is suffering as judicial desertification, as a denial of that proximity justice which should be a condition to ensure the fulfilment, by a state that still wants to define itself as such, of one of its primary functions. I think maybe, in the end, that's the consideration we can make. Perhaps we do not blame you, Madam Minister (although, as you know, we have proposed a new motion of no confidence, for other facts). Evidently you here are one of the instruments, certainly not unaware, of the general policies of those who govern the country, aimed at pulling the State back from all the primary and fundamental functions for which it has come into being in modern Western societies: justice, health and education. The spending review and the monetary policies that Europe imposes on us, may also impose on you that governs drastic and painful choices, but all together we must assume the awareness that so we are going towards the abyss and a state that becomes less and less state and less and less guarantor, and unfortunately, inevitably, those who pay the cost are the weakest categories: in the case of justice the citizens, who, before considering the opportunity to see their own right protected, have to deal with the distances from the court (even if they turn to their own attorney of trust). So, it's a rising cost. Added to this is the blockage of the turnover (we know the conditions of the chancellor, with the hiring firm for over a decade and with a completely unmanageable job from the administrative staff). The advocacy is completely prostrated, precisely because it is penalized or even identified as the enemy to be overthrown.I am referring also to what we know of the draft of the delegation law, to the singular and truly scientific disposition with which the Government wants to extend to the defender a joint responsibility in case of succumbence in civil judgments for fearful quarrels. Even the National Association of Magistrates has had words of criticism and amazement about this norm, which clearly betrays a creeping prejudice (later not much creeping, but completely waved). It seems to us that, if the state of justice in Italy is this and the causes last so long, the problem is solved by allowing access only to the rich, discouraging lawyers and putting procedural traps (such as the filter on appeal) that do not serve to obtain a better or more just judgment, but only to increase the state of uncertainty and inconvenience also in the protection of the right to bring to justice. We have already talked about paid sentences: this is also a measure that finds our complete aversion. I begin with the conclusion, Minister, with a prayer. Last Saturday I was in Naples on the occasion of the OAU national conference. I arrived the day after the controversy I read about, which frankly did not interest me so much, because you should not personalize the problem in the figure of Minister Chancellors, also because I believe (if I managed to pass my thought) that what you are doing, Minister, would probably do another in your place. Therefore, it is not so much a personal matter that I address to Minister Chancellors, but an appeal that in the legislative production of the Ministry, of which we know to be a large part of the magistrates, there is also the voice from the lawyer. I do not say this in a spirit of category, because I am not here at all to represent interests of category, but because the lawyer, even with all his defects, represents - you know very well - the real means between the citizen and justice. Probably listening to the advocacy in a serene, civil and respectful atmosphere of both parties, not downstream, but upstream, when laws are thought of, when reform projects are designed and then translated into regulatory articulations, it would be appropriate. I would like to ask for this kind of interest from you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Buccarella. BUCCARELLA (M5S). As far as the resolutions before us are concerned, we announce our vote against motion for a resolution No 1 and our vote in favour of motion No 2. With reference to motion for a resolution No 3, signed by the 5 Star Movement Group, given that the Minister has received different opinions on the individual points (in particular the contrary opinion on points 1, 4 and 7, while in favour of the other seven points), I would like to put our request for a split vote in advance, so that the House can speak differently on the different points. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u82	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the function of impartial guarantee, which belongs to jurisdiction, can only be fully achieved if the principles of fair trial are carried out in criminal matters in the rules, conduct and processes. Madam Minister, there is also a principle of procedural loyalty to be respected. Many magistrates - who speak to you from direct experience know that this is done by some magistrates - even after having requested the agreement between the procedural parties for the reduction of lists of witnesses, without any procedural loyalty, in the middle of the hearing of the texts they think they can close the investigation. In the same way, Minister, in the field of civil justice, equal access must be guaranteed. Today there is no more equality of access to civil justice in our country. The cost of access to civil justice is enormous, taking into account the current conditions of weak sections of the population, aggravated by the economic crisis, which do not allow us to bear the costs, which have increased, for a unified contribution, fearsome quarrels and for a serious foreclosure that do not guarantee the equality of the parties within the civil process and do not allow justice to express its full potential. Minister, I would also like to say that it is a mistake when you say in your report that you can think of the monocratic judge on appeal. Minister, let the statistics be given: when the monocratic judge was first introduced, this reform did not lead to any increase in productivity. However, introducing the monocratic judge means giving up the benefit of appealing collegiality, with fewer additional guarantees for citizens. Finally, I would like to point out that, as you can see, the Group of the European Forza Italia has not tabled any motions or resolutions, because - in the event - we should have tabled a motion or resolution against your report. I'll explain why. We have preferred not to present them, and we will abstain, by giving an abstention vote, aware that we can draw your attention and your loyalty to an assessment of the correctness of how the debate in this branch of Parliament has developed in relation to judicial geography. We have not had any response; indeed, in his report there is a contradictory position. You correctly say that you need to determine the judicial offices with an average number of judges - between 30 and 60 - to determine functionality and efficiency. Madam Minister, this statement is, however, contradictory in view of the fact that it has not changed what has been done to date. If you see, the opinion voted by all the parliamentary groups in the Senate has only one philosophy: to create offices that are efficient. We have followed the Ministry's direction, that is to say, to create offices for every 380,000 inhabitants, in order to guarantee the speed of the processes and the efficiency that otherwise there are not. We have left only one court with a smaller number of inhabitants - I am referring to that of Rossano - and this for reasons of crime. We would have liked you and your ministry to have an explanation. We have not listened to any of the bell towers and mayors of the municipalities who have come to us to ask us to fight for a detached courtroom. We didn't. We've accepted your suggestion to remove all the detachable sections. We have accepted your suggestion to eliminate all the judges of peace and also some courts. We have reduced to the bone the number of courts that distracted the concentration carried out in some judicial offices, having by now only elephantic judicial offices with the creation of areas of dereliction. I would not like to continue this debate again next year. I do not wish to have to check next year whether there is a further delay or a further deficiency. That is the case, and it cannot be otherwise, Madam Minister. You have a thought. They're not ideas of Caliendo or Forza Italia. These are ideas that the studies of docimology, carried out in France in the mid-1970s, have already demonstrated, and just verify it in our country. Do not look at what we have written, but read the book of Luciano Violante, in which the existence of efficient judicial offices in the North, the South and the Centre is shown, while having equal number of magistrates. Why is that? There is a responsibility of the magistrates, but there is also a responsibility for the overall efficiency of the system. I invite you to take into account the situation of the administrative staff of the DOG (Department of the Judicial Organization), which is the only one who has not enjoyed the equalization in our country and that, while it should be encouraged to work more, to give greater availability, at the same time we treat it in an impossible way. Of course, we have economic problems, but at least we give the opportunity to open up, to consider whether we can begin to give legal recognition and then, in three or four years' time, to give economic recognition. I would ask you to look into the situation of the courts in concrete terms. We did not ask you to save any court without intervening on territorial jurisdiction, because that is the only way you would remove some courts and give efficiency to others. We cannot always dump every cost on the citizens. He knows better than I the costs for all the municipalities of the section of Cassano D'Adda, which must go to Lodi where they have no possibility of connection. We did not listen to those who came to the Justice Commission, and they are a number of people, local politicians. We didn't do anything about the bell tower. I believe this was the only time in this parliamentary term in which you have unanimously adopted positions. It's not a coincidence. If a unanimity of positions is recorded, the problem must arise that probably some reason, some glimmer of truth exists. So, why not verify and guarantee the possibility of efficient justice, which is the only one to ensure equal rights in our country? Legality cannot be achieved if there is no equality, if there is no equality, and not equality to talk about saying that we apply judgments. That's not equality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Equality is when all citizens have equal treatment before the judge. The judge applying the rule must ensure that the citizen is treated equally with respect to the others, and his trial must be carried out at the same time as the others' trials are carried out. All this in civil matters is of enormous importance, because it concerns labour law, the dignity of people, family rights. You have concentrated everything in some courts and you can well understand what has happened recently in some judicial offices, where the presidential hearing in the causes of separation, even in the presence of children, is set at eight months. This means increasing the discomfort of children and children. I do not ask you then to take into account everything we have written, but we would also have the right to know why. Why do you not think you can give an answer on a specific point? We have identified a different territoriality, a different territorial competence, to ensure efficiency. If you were to tell us what we were wrong with, we could also acknowledge that, but if we were not wrong, it is your responsibility if we do not achieve that justice that guarantees equal treatment for all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Buemi and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u85	LUMIA (PD). Minister, in your report you have not concealed the gravity of the justice system in our country today. He has informed us of the data and confirmed the very serious data, which unfortunately are before everyone's eyes. I am referring to those relating to civil litigation, with over 5 million trials, and to criminal litigation, with over 3 and a half million trials. Particular attention should also be paid to administrative and tax litigation. All international bodies, when reporting and explaining the crisis of the Italian system, often refer to the crisis of the justice system. Madam Minister, you have told us and described the speeches that have been made in recent months by the Government and Parliament. I think it's time to make a big leap in quality: we need more dynamism and more speed. We hope that, in the next few days, when defining the Government's programme agreement with Parliament, we will have the opportunity to show and touch this qualitative leap forward, in the work that the Government will propose together with Parliament, and to make reality of the dynamism we are asking for. Among the many issues that have been raised, I would like to point out a number of guiding criteria, so as not to get lost in the labyrinth of the justice system. First of all, we are calling for a structural approach. Madam Minister, you must also take an example from Parliament's work: a few hours ago we adopted a legislative text, partly already voted by the House of Deputies, partly modified to the Senate, in which this structurality emerged in all its strength and disruption. I am referring to testing, reform of the system of penalties, decriminalization. Madam Minister, the time has come for an approach that has this cut: the time is ripe for a reform of the codes. Madam Minister, take inspiration from the work done by the Committee of Wise Men, when we were in a stalemate at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and from President Napolitano's intervention on the overcrowding of prisons. It takes the parties shared by the practitioners of justice and those that are widely shared by Parliament. Where there are structural interventions, there is the future of justice in our country. Madam Minister, I suggest another guiding criterion: when you intervene, especially in criminal matters, you use the principle of double track: this is a mature idea. It was Giovanni Falcone who included this approach and it was a fruitful approach: it cost him his life and cost so many other operators his life. The principle of double track allows us, Minister, to have a modern and advanced view of minor crimes. At the same time, it allows us to have an even stricter and even stricter approach to Mafia crimes, corruption offences, as regards all other serious crimes and particularly social alarms. We make our own, Minister, and we ask you to make it yours, the concern that many magistrates have expressed against the decree against the overcrowding of prisons, which is being evaluated in the House. There too, we must be very careful and ensure that the principle of double track is well-coded and well-represented in the rules. Minister, we cannot escape, as far as structural reforms are concerned, an issue that I think is now ripe to be addressed: reform, the re-examination of the three degrees of judgment. There are several ways; there is a discussion that allows us in a plural way to face this challenge, the challenge of challenges. Minister, it is time to do this, because otherwise we will not come out of the slow times of justice, from delays and inefficiencies, from the game of prescriptions and appeals, in short from a perverse game that eventually gives us a poor result both in terms of equality and opportunities of access to justice service, and in terms of the result and standards of civilization and democracy to which our country cannot give up. Madam Minister, another guiding criterion is the reorganization of the network of services, staff, courts and prisons. As you could hear here in the Senate, there is a very mature and critical assessment of the application of judicial reform. We have spoken with all the other groups on several occasions; Here in choir you have been asked to put a hand on corrective decrees: do so, Madam Minister, do not waste time, listen to Parliament; take seriously the rigorous proposals that Parliament has made to you and make sure that they can be translated, because otherwise, Minister, you assume a responsibility that can also become a serious responsibility. That is why, Minister, we are also asking you about computerization and staff to make this qualitative leap: we have gaps in monstrous staff, not only on magistrates, but also on administrative staff in the courts. We have monstrous voids in prisons, which we have pointed out several times, as far as prison police are concerned, but also for civilian personnel; psychologists, educators, social workers. Minister, the reform of testing, which is an important and modern institution, which must be applied not to Italian, but in a rigorous and serious way, requires that these civil figures have more space within our prison system. That is why, Minister, this qualitative leap is necessary: it must feel its own, on this it must bet, it must be at stake, it must put its history and the role of the Government at stake. Otherwise, Minister, in the coming weeks and months we could easily face serious disappointments. That is why we are asking you for this qualitative leap. Minister, we have asked you, with a number of speeches, some specific questions; in your reply you did not think to answer, but we trust that you will soon be able to respond with the facts. Senator Cirinna touched us all; she touched the heart of Parliament by referring to the story of little Nicola, of Coco, that child who was killed by the 'ndrangheta in Calabria: there is an answer that you, Minister, must give, and that your offices have not yet put in condition to give, to allow mothers with children detained to have alternative services on the territory. Senator Lo Giudice posed the problem of the Ombudsman giving her a modern and advanced indication; so Senator Filippin returned to talk about the need to put hand, with a corrective decree, to the reform of judicial districts. Minister, we have put some serious questions and we look forward to an answer from you. Finally, I give you an indication with my heart: trust Parliament a little more and a little less than the ministerial bureaucracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] Minister, with this we say that we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u88	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chancellors, we are not satisfied with the report you have presented today. You recently, Madam Minister, offended the entire Italian lawyer with your statements on the occasion of your failure to attend the national conference in Naples, during which the lawyers made numerous proposals to resolve the problems of civil justice, while you were in Moscow talking about international conferences and seminars. The problems of the length of the processes do not resolve with extemporaneous measures that have as their sole aim to limit the citizen's access to jurisdiction and to increase the costs of the civil process to an extent, making it a prerogative only for the rich. The draft law delegates approved by the Council of Ministers at the end of December contains liberticidal measures, such as, for example, the motivation of paid sentences, the monocratic appellate judge, the solidarity of the defender in the sentence to compensation for the damage caused by fearful disputes. Well, you, Madam Minister, did not consider it important to listen to the proposals of lawyers who every day live in the jurisdiction such as, for example, assisted negotiation and arbitration chambers in the orders; the organic and mandatory presence of lawyers in the legislative office of the Ministry of Justice; the participation of lawyers in the disposal of the backward. It is absurd for a Minister of the Republic to ignore and offend such a vital category for our country and for its democracy. I expected a clarification intervention, not only for this, but also for an article published on November 17, 2013 in various newspapers, in particular in a national newspaper entitled "Cancellieri-Ligresti," pm Turin evaluates a new call and registration about the acquisition of Antonio Ligresti's records that made it clear that you, dear Minister, omitted some information about your contacts. But since this has not happened, I can only express my vote against, in dissent to that of Forza Italia. It should, therefore, take seriously the possibility of abandoning the Dicastery that guides.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u89	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u92	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I call on Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta to vote by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the Report of the Minister for Justice on the Administration of Justice, President. Let us move on to motion for a resolution No 2, for which the Minister gave a favourable opinion, with an opinion contrary to paragraph 4 of the proposal. Senator De Petris proposed to amend the resolution by including in paragraph 4 the diction: "Estimating the opportunity to intervene on the Fini-Giovanardi Act." Does the Minister agree with or support this rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u94	The matter will be discussed. I can give an opinion in favour of taking it into consideration, but I do not commit the Government afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u97	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I did not understand very well whether the Minister's opinion relates to the device or to the premise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It refers to the device. SACCONI (NCD). So, Minister, the premise is accepted?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u98	Not all paragraphs: the first, second and third paragraphs of the preamble are accepted; the fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs are not accepted, while the seventh paragraph is accepted. In the premise there are some considerations that I cannot agree with. I agree with what I have identified and I reiterate the Government's favourable opinion on the commitment as indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u101	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, since in Resolution No 2, at the third point of the premise, it is stated that the state of Italian justice has reached an intolerable level of drama, unknown in other democratic countries, to which Italy is, unfortunately, in a situation of substantial illegality, I would like to know whether the Government can accept such a definition. I refer to the last paragraph of the premise on the front page of the resolution on the Communist Refoundation. [[Laughter. Comments from the Mixed-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u102	It refers to the part of the premise that continues with the expression: "and that has paved the way for the condemnations that have occurred over time by the European Court of Human Rights against our country;". We can only recognize that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u103	Excuse me, Minister, it also says that Italy is in a situation of substantial illegality. We vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u104	It refers to a dramatic situation and refers to the European Court. GIOVANARDI (NCD). So the Italian Government accepts a resolution in which it says that Italy... president. Senator Giovanardi, you have already clarified your position. We only need to understand whether or not the government is in favour of this formulation, nothing else. Mr Cancellieri, Minister for Justice. Mr President, I accept the wording that the situation is so dramatic that it has paved the way for condemnations by the European Court. That the situation is dramatic, I think, is in everyone's eyes: then there may be a more or less strong expression, but the meaning is that the European Court has condemned us and we must react strongly. I don't know what the problem is. We can remove a word or two, but the essence is that we are faced with a European Court which is imposing heavy sanctions on us. That must be recognised. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we have understood that the Minister's opinion is favourable, not least in relation to the rewording proposed in paragraph 4 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u107	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I would like to ask you in advance why you may not have understood me correctly. It seems to me that the Minister has stated his agreement on certain points, on others he has declared his opposition. Do we vote for separate parties or do we vote in total?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u108	I have learned from the Minister that, with the rewording of paragraph 4 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour. So there would be no reason to vote for separate parts. Then maybe the minister wants to clarify. One thing is the device, another the premises. No one has asked to vote for separate parts yet. CASINI (PI). I don't know if I can ask as a single member of parliament... President. As a single Member of Parliament, you may ask, but we also obtain the opinion on the premise for clarity, since this was so requested. Mr Minister, in the preamble to paragraph 1, after the words: 'does the opinion favour', 'does the opinion favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour', 'does it favour '?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u109	You may consider it a strong expression, but surely...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u110	So there is a favourable opinion. On paragraph 4? Mr Cancellieri, Minister for Justice. On paragraph 4, the opinion is opposed, as well as on paragraphs 5 and 6. On paragraph 7, where there is a commitment to judicial geography, the opinion is in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, either we vote for separate parties or its overall opinion is contrary to the premises. The opinion is in favour of this except in paragraph 4, which I understand. Mr Cancellieri, Minister for Justice. That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, it has been reworded: what is your opinion on the rewording of paragraph 4 of the device? Mr Cancellieri, Minister for Justice. My opinion is in the sense of deepening the issue of drugs... PRESIDENT. This is the proposal for a rewording of its opinion contrary to paragraph 4 of the operative part. Mr Cancellieri, Minister for Justice. I am prepared to discuss the single text, but not to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, the Minister on paragraph 4 of the device agrees to consider the opportunity to discuss the Fini-Giovanardi law, not to intervene. Do you accept this reformulation? Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u111	For us it is okay: "to consider the opportunity to discuss" leaving standing the part in which we refer - so it is very clear - to the Constitutional Court's ruling on the Fini-Giovanardi law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u112	That stays.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The point of reference is very clear, unmistakable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u114	Senator De Petris, on the premise there is an opinion against paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, so either withdraw them or make a request for a split vote. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We call for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u117	CASINI (PI). Mr President, for the sake of clarity. The system is very complex, so it is obvious that the Minister can agree on certain points, and on others he may disagree. If we divide the premises from the second aspect, let us make it clear and allow the Groups to express themselves even more freely.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u118	All right. If there are no comments, we shall proceed to the split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u121	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on the change that the Government has requested, I would like to understand what is meant by the Government's commitment to debate. If anyone explains a little better what is meant by discussing, what kind of commitment by the government is legally relevant, I would also be of the opinion to vote for it. I repeat, this is the first time that I have been faced with a motion for a resolution with which the Government is prepared to discuss something. This is Parliament: everything is being discussed here. It does not seem to me to be a real commitment. Therefore, the vote of our Group will be against, even if I would be very careful, President Casini, to understand whether, once the three points of the premises have been removed, the whole motion for a resolution still has its own hold.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u122	We shall now proceed to the separate vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2). We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 of the premises. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on both parts of Resolution No 2 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the preamble to motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the Report of the Minister for Justice on the Administration of Justice, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining part of the motion for a resolution. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the preamble and of the motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2) tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the Report of the Minister for Justice on the Administration of Justice, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u125	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, as Mr Buccarella has already pointed out, I would ask that motion for a resolution No 3 be voted on separately, because it also contains three points of the proposal on which the Minister gave an opinion against it, and on everything else he has given a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When wondering whether there are any comments on the separate part-voting motion for a resolution No 3, I shall summarize. The Minister gave a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution, with the exception of the part not included in the adoption of Resolution No 1 on which we cannot vote, i.e. the one which begins with the words: 'does not approve the communications', and then the first, fourth and seventh paragraphs of the motion for a resolution, for which the separate vote would take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u128	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I declare the opposition of the Democratic Party Group to the split vote on the part of the mechanism not accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u129	So your speech is on behalf of the majority who opposes the split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u132	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask Senator Russo to enter into the substance of his opposition and explain the reasons for it. That sounds like a courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u133	Senator Santangelo, we cannot open a debate on the request for a split vote. You were warned that there could have been an opposite position on the split vote. If, therefore, there is a majority opposed to this type of vote, you cannot proceed in the way you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u134	Mr President, at certain times of the day it is also important to loosen up and, if there are reasons to converge on issues of common sense, perhaps it is important to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Consider the opportunity. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u135	The motion for a resolution could also be reworded, removing the parties on which there is an opinion against it. In that case, we would vote only on the parties on which there is a favourable opinion. There would also be this other solution, which you could consider: remove paragraphs 1, 2 and 7 from the resolution, on which there is an opinion against it. At this point, there would be no opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u136	Mr President, it could be a solution to finally make the House and Parliament decide whether or not to vote in favour of all the decisions, while respecting the wording of content that we believe to be valid, and also accepting a split vote against them. So I invite Senator Russo to review, if possible, his position, also according to what is an absolutely collaborative attitude on our part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u137	There is also the possibility, since we are beginning to separate, of separating the parts on which there is an opinion contrary to those on which there is a favourable opinion, in the proposition of the resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u140	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, we recognise the freedom of the groups to present the motions for resolutions in the form they prefer. I hope that it will also be recognised that we can then decide how to vote on them. But we don't want to create a case... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u141	Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u142	Mr Russo (PD). We do not want to create a case at all, and so, if the request is so urgent, we are going to vote separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right; then we vote for separate parts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u145	Would you like to reunite the separate parties, Senator Giovanardi? GIOVANARDI (NCD). No, Mr. President. If you will allow me, I want to make just one observation, because, in my culture, whoever is without sin throws the first stone. I am happy to see that motion for a resolution No 3 is put to the vote. However, I would like to point out that, at the bottom of the proposal, after the names of all the signatories, the corresponding signatures are added, which have clearly been made by one person. So they're all fake signatures. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] But we are in Parliament: I understand that all false signatures can be made, because I trust them. I would therefore put the motion for a resolution to the vote, even though all signatures were made by one hand and the act was not signed by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group. Anyone can control what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u146	All right, we're gonna do a graphics test.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion for a resolution No 3. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on both sides of motion for a resolution No 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the premise and paragraphs 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, with the exception of the words 'does not approve the communications of the Minister of Justice and ', which are precluded by the adoption of motion for a resolution No 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the Report of the Minister for Justice on the Administration of Justice, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining part of motion for a resolution No 3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of paragraphs 1, 4 and 7 of the motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u149	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). CASTALDI (M5S). I'll wait a minute, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, look, start. Your speech will be so interesting as to stop the senators in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u150	[[Brusio]] Anyone who leaves the Chamber will do so in silence, please. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, my speech is a spokesperson, as always. This time, however, I am the spokesperson for the citizens of Alto vastese, one of those areas of Italy abandoned to themselves and forgotten by the single party, which, however, well remembers the existence of any election a few weeks before the elections. Right there, on the former SS86, currently called the provincial road 212, there is a landslide, one of the many in our distracted Italy, so there is nothing strange but the isolation of those citizens who still have the courage to live there while being out of all essential services. On-site recatomi together with other citizens and a single municipal administrator, Enzo Fangio of the Municipality of Castiglione Messer Marino (which deserves a quote in this Chamber), I found a landslide, but certainly not a devastation. Like any citizen I asked myself: can we not find a buffer solution that avoids the total closure of the route? Is it possible that it is so difficult to alleviate the problems that the closure of this provincial road causes the inhabitants of the vast hinterland? The municipal administration of Castiglione Messer Marino and many citizens of Schiavi d'Abruzzo and neighboring countries have made available the means and their workforce in order to arrive at a quick solution that allows the immediate reopening, at least in alternate direction, of that artery. As a layman I understand that the technicians of the Province certainly have very valid reasons to close the road to traffic, but as a citizen and as a user I ask myself: the roadway is wide, the enlargement on the opposite side of the landslide is possible, the means and the forces are there, then: is there a goddamn alternative solution or do we have to wait in vain millionaire funding that will never arrive? For these reasons I sent today a letter to the technician of the Province of Chieti asking for an immediate meeting in order to enlighten me on what it is possible to do already tomorrow. I take this opportunity to invite the Province of Chieti to publish the budget. On the site it is written: waiting for the data of the competent sector. Only by studying budgets will citizens be able to understand how their money is being used and, if ever, to propose different and closer use priorities to their needs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u153	BATTIST (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to ask for the attention of Mr Chancellors, because what I am about to bring back may also be to your attention. I would like to point out the question 3-00618, which I tabled on 9 January, concerning the problem of the industrial complex of the ironworks of Servola, in the city of Trieste, owned by Lucchini SpA. He is currently under extraordinary administration. On 13 December 2012, the final measure for the adoption of the final determinations of the decision-making services conference on the Trieste National Interest Reclamation Site of 11 December 2012 was issued. Following the constitution of the technical table between the autonomous Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Municipality and Province of Trieste, ARPA and harbour authority (the latter as observer), inspections were carried out on the site of the ironworks of Servola in order to verify the state of the places and documents transmitted by Lucchini relative to the activities of put in safety carried out from 2004 (subline from 2004) to January 2013. However, the final report drawn up by the Province clearly shows that the interventions adopted by Lucchini are not sufficient in order to be able to consider the site in safety. At the same time, those proposed are not appropriate to the situation on the site. The inspection reports of the Province of Trieste show a clear situation of illegality which concerns, among other things, the internal storage of the wolves, other waste, the treatment of liquid waste, the containment of the waters of wash, not to mention the continuous excavations recorded by the control units with regard to the values of benzopyrene and PM10 [[Mr Cancellieri mentioned leaving the Chamber]] Madam Minister, do you have time for a minute? No, he doesn't have time. At the end of November, the public prosecutor in Trieste issued a press release after opening a new procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u154	Minister, a minute's attention has been requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u155	BATTIST (M5S). I repeat that at the end of November the Trieste Public Prosecutor issued a press release after opening a new procedure in August 2013. In one point of this report, the words of the prosecutor Frezza, exactly in point 4, concerning the epidemiological study of the ASS: "We must ask ourselves whether the environmental crime (which is a danger offence) is added a crime of damage, that is personal injury or even manslaughter; it must be said that epidemiological studies are made difficult by the long time of latency of the tumors; nevertheless, they must be done, after having ascertained the environmental crime." So, given the continuing and worsening of this critical situation, which is not a problem today or yesterday because it has arisen since at least 2004, with my speech I urge the Presidency and you, Minister, to assess acts of your competence for the delay in the actions of the Prosecutor. How much longer will it take to find a manager? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u156	I thank the Minister, who has had the patience to listen also to the speeches at the end of the sitting, and to the sensitivity shown.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-171.ana.u158	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 22 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.02 p.m.
