ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00244 by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00249 by Senator Gasparri and other senators, 1-00270 by Senator Battista and other senators, 1-00271 by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00272 by Senator Zanda and other senators, and 1-00273 by Senator Scavone and other senators, on operation Mare nostrum. I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion 244.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the humanitarian military mission called Mare nostrum was launched by the Government on 18 October 2013 to manage the emergency caused by the landings of illegal immigrants on our coasts, following the shipwreck that took place off Lampedusa on 3 October, with serious human losses. At the presentation of the operation the Minister of Interior Alfano stated that the sum of the patrol and the action of the judicial police and the judiciary would have a very significant deterrent effect, especially for the hullers who think impunity to traffic in human beings. At the same time, the Minister of Defence, Mr Mauro, pointed out that Italy was the first to move within Eurosur, which had just been launched, which would have allowed the border control within Frontex to give a clear and strong example. Minister Mauro also said that there would be no need for other funds, but that the Minister's money would be enough, estimating this cost at around one and a half million euros per month. These are the premises that already allow us to state that, given the data at today's date, the operation Mare nostrum is - as it has proved from the beginning - a failure. This operation is not at all a deterrent, but rather encourages and facilitates the boatmen and the migrants themselves who know to cross the Mediterranean in conditions of greater security also thanks to the ships of the Navy. The last official statement by Minister Alfano on 28 May in the parliamentary monitoring committee on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement spoke of 39.538 migrants arriving. To date, less than 15 days later, we are at more than 50,000 and, considering that summer has just begun and the trend, we can safely say that in 2014 the roof of 100,000 people will break. Also the central director of immigration and border police at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Pinto, said in several hearings that Mare nostrum facilitates migrants. Moreover, how can we not quote as an element no longer dissuasive the crime of clandestineness, which has been repealed, considering that instead in other countries of Europe it continues to exist, even if not always as a crime but (in some cases) as an administrative offence? The operation is also much more expensive than expected. Minister of Defence Pinotti spoke of EUR 9.5 million per month. We are talking about 300,000 euros per day, without considering the costs of the reception not yet quantified; in this regard we remind everyone who asks for international protection must be granted free food and accommodation, money for 2.5 euros per day and a telephone card of 15 euros. On the costs, I would like to remind you here that the Lega Nord Group, already on 27 March, has submitted a question to the Ministers of the Interior and Defence in order to have the exact knowledge of the costs incurred, both for the military operation and for the reception; a question which, after two and a half months, has remained unresolved. Just as inevaded - and I would like to point out - is a previous question, dated March 20, always presented by the Lega Nord Group (which immediately moved to counter and supervise operation Mare nostrum), which asked what were the operating modalities, the guidelines, in short the rules of engagement entrusted to the Navy for operations in the Mediterranean Sea. Moreover, it must be stressed the marasma, the difficulty to which the territorial authorities have been subjected, starting with the municipalities, which have been placed on their territories, many times without any warning, many migrants. In short, the phenomenon is bursting, as well as all the reception facilities. While other countries in Europe are preparing increasingly restrictive measures to combat illegal immigration, even setting up plans for the repatriation of unemployed EU citizens, such as in Germany and Great Britain, especially to prevent the collapse of the welfare system, we are constantly moving forward with Operation Mare nostrum. To my dear colleague, Senator Mario Mauro, who at the beginning of the operation, on 18 October last year, spoke of the first of the class in implementation of these measures, I would point out that the other European countries have looked carefully, given the Italian experience, from undertaking similar operations. How can we fail to remember that in Spain, by implementing measures of contrast, compared to the same period last year, illegal migrants and refugees (or so-called refugees) have decreased by 90%? How can we fail to remember - said the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti - that other countries, such as Greece and Malta, have implemented, unlike ourselves, measures to combat the migration of illegal immigrants and refugees (or so-called refugees)? In short, with our motion - we were the first to present it - we ask the Government to complete the plan of bilateral agreements drawn up in the previous legislature, when the Ministry of the Interior was Maroni, in order to prevent departures from the coastal countries of Africa, in particular from Libya. This is where we need to invest the resources and the forces currently employed to collaborate in the conflicting activity agreed with the other countries. Secondly, we call for serious security measures, including the establishment of an emergency health plan, in order to protect the health of citizens and, above all, the military, police and personnel employed in the various operations, exposed to high health risks, as many mayors are reporting at this time. In fact, the news of the other day, which speaks of eight military results positive to the tuberculosis test, is worrying. We then ask Parliament to report every three months on the outcome of the applications for international protection submitted, on the rejected applications, or on the granting of refugee status. We also call for all appropriate measures to be taken, as provided for in the European directives, in order to obtain from individuals the full or partial reimbursement of the costs incurred in receiving and receiving health care provided to them, if it is established that asylum seekers have sufficient resources of their own. We therefore call for all appropriate initiatives to be taken during the Italian Presidency of the Community institutions in order to strengthen the control of our land and maritime borders and to review the Dublin Convention on the granting of asylum. Among the requests, of course, there is also that of hosting in our country the headquarters of Frontex, today present in distant Warsaw, Poland. Finally - I have left it for last - we ask the Renzi Government to immediately suspend the operation Mare nostrum and to strengthen the controls at the Italian land borders, in particular the marine ones; a task, the latter, more suitable for our Navy, whose primary role is that of the defense of the borders and not that of transforming itself into a fleet of ferries in which the passengers find the ticket paid by the Italians to arrive in our country, where they find food and accommodation for free. The suspension of Mare nostrum is urgent to stop this colossal invasion. Otherwise, we will arrive at the end of the year breaking (and perhaps going much further) the share of 100,000 illegal migrants and so-called refugees. Let us change this policy and this failure; let us abandon our demential position, totally explosive and out of control, because Europe both cares, as in the past and as it will be in the future. If the Government and Minister Alfano do not decide to implement policies of control and defence of our territory nothing remains for them but resign. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u6	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u8	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday the President of the Senate Foreign Commission, Senator Casini, together with the President of the Foreign Commission of the House of Deputies, Mr Cicchitto, asked for the presence in Parliament of the Interior Minister Alfano on the subject of landings. [[Senator Casini makes a complaint of denial with the boss]] I read an agency that reported this: the Minister was invited to Parliament to discuss the matter of landings. Evidently, as sometimes happens, the agency has reported things that are not accurate. However, regardless of what had appeared to me (I will look for the news so that Senator Casini may deny it because imprecise), it is evident that the matter of landings has assumed an alarming dimension, almost similar to the story of the Albanians of 1991, with the difference that while the Albanians arrived all in the port of Bari (therefore, also the dimension appeared in its consistency and its concentration in a single place), at this stage the landings are implemented through our Navy and located in various places: 2,000 in Taranto, 1,000 in Pozzallo, another 1,000 from another part. I therefore feel that clarification is needed, because the Minister for the Interior himself has expressed concern about the inertia of the European Union. Personally, I think that we should even intervene at the level of the United Nations, given that the humanitarian emergency that is taking place in Africa can have enormous, colossal dimensions. Months ago it was Alfano spoke of 600,000 people; then the leaders of the Ministry of the Interior spoke of 800,000, but Africa is full of millions of desperate people who, once access is automatic, could come to Europe. Since, therefore, the concern is common and general, I rise to make a request on the occasion of the parliamentary debate on Operation Mare nostrum, considering the extent of this emergency, the need for international organizations to take care of a problem that cannot be Italy, or the Mezzogiorno of Italy and Sicily: if there is a continent where the pockets of poverty are gigantic, and which is emptied, the problem is biblical in size. I therefore welcome the presence in the Chamber of the Undersecretary in the Presidency of the Council of Delrio, but I believe that on this specific debate - since the Minister of the Interior in turn publicly denounced the limits of the possibility of Italian action, the costs, the burdens - the Government must be represented directly by those who have this responsibility. If this were to lead to a slight postponement of the debate, I would not be shocked, because we are faced with an emergency that is urgently needed, but I do not think that the problem is this afternoon or tomorrow morning. But my request, and I also address government representatives who are engaged in other activities... (Government representatives talk to some senators.) Mr President, I do not know whether it is appropriate to draw attention to this: there is a meeting on the benches of the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're probably deciding on your request. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Then I'll wait until the meeting is over, then I'll talk, if Undersecretary Delrio authorizes me to speak... I therefore call for the Minister of the Interior to be present in this debate, because now Parliament is discussing Mare nostrum through motions, then Parliament will determine what it considers to be, but I believe that we also need feedback on the management, the difficulties, the costs, the emergencies. I therefore formally request that this debate be held with the presence and intervention of the Minister for the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gasparri, his request was directly heard by the Government, which, moreover, is represented by three authoritative Undersecretaries. So we'll see below. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Gibiino to explain motion No 249.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u9	Mr President, I too can only join in the right call of Senator Gasparri, because either we believe that the important moment in this House is when we press the red or green button with our finger, or we imagine that this House is also a place of discussion and discussion. Before I begin to explain the motion, I would like to remind you that EU Regulation No 604/2013, which requires that both the State and the first to receive immigrants should deal with it (and these immigrants will no longer be able to leave the border of that State), was signed by Minister Alfano. If we are to revise this treaty, Minister Alfano must be in the Chamber, he must confront the senators, who are the expression of the people, and then take together a decision, together with the MEPs elected a few days ago, to take an all-Italian government and parliamentary action, not the opposition, the government or the majority. Operation Mare nostrum was born on October 18, 2013, following a dramatic tragedy: the shipwreck of a boat of migrants off Lampedusa that cost the lives of hundreds of people. As a colleague of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group has already said, the then Minister of Defence calculated in one million euros the cost per month of the operation. The measure under discussion today highlights what was already expected then, namely the growth of migratory flows: 25,000 migrants arrived in Italy from the beginning of the year (date updated to the day of the presentation of the motion that we are going to discuss) and rising costs to the State. At the time of the motion the cost of the mission was calculated as follows: EUR 300,000 per day (so, EUR 9 million per month), stressing that these expenses should have been added to the staff allowances and maintenance costs necessary for the extraordinary use of the means. The total expenditure was therefore estimated at between 10 and 14 million euros per month, without considering the much higher costs, of which the exact amount is unknown, incurred for the food and accommodation of migrants in reception centres and for their transfers, as well as the administrative expenses to organize everything. To date, we have more recent data. Since the beginning of the year the migrants who have reached the Italian coast have been 50,000 and the relative costs have been the following: 100 million euros per year, 9.5 million euros per month, 300,000 euros per day; over 900 engaged sailors, to which are added the men of Coast Guard, Guard of finance, Carabinieri and Police. The means engaged: five ships, two helicopters constantly at sea, several patrol boats stationed in Lampedusa and in the Sicilian ports, aircraft for radar monitoring and detection. The motion does nothing but take note of what is happening, of what the news daily tells: Operation Mare nostrum, born to face the landings, failed its objective, did not put an embankment to the emergency, but increased it. In the plans of the Letta-Alfano Government, the mission should have been a deterrent to criminal organizations that manage the travels of immigrants from the coasts of North Africa to Italy. On the contrary, Mare nostrum has had no deterrent effect, on the contrary, it has strongly stimulated the departure of migrants to our coasts, thus favouring the affairs of criminal organizations that have greatly increased their illicit profits. Mare nostrum has done nothing but strengthen the idea that it is enough to start from the African coast and ask the Italian authorities for help in order to be collected at sea by our military ships (used almost as free taxi), perhaps a few kilometers from the ports of departure, and brought to the Italian reception centers. The motion emphasizes what the central director of immigration and border police, Giovanni Pinto, has declared in front of the Commissions reunited 4a and 3a: there would be approximately 800,000 people ready to leave to Italy from the ports of North Africa. Italy alone is unprepared to welcome and offer assistance to these poor people, the reception centers are already in collapse. Despite the great work of the Forces of Order, of the military, of the health personnel, and of the volunteers, of most of these people, we will not know the true origin, possible criminal precedents, health conditions. This is perhaps the most serious of the risks that Italians, and most of the Sicilians, run. Yesterday's news: eight Italian soldiers engaged in rescue operations in the Sicilian Canal were positive for the tuberculosis test. To aggravate the situation, the European legislation that obliges our country, as a first port, to take responsibility for these migrants, whether they are illegal or have the right to asylum. This obligation makes it possible in Italy to increase the already unsustainable number of illegals and homeless people who are usually seen in every corner of the cities of the Peninsula. The motion makes explicit what is now evident in the eyes of the Italians: the management of this biblical exodus requires a huge economic effort. In fact, there is a strong risk that the tax burden will increase or that resources that could be better allocated to the needs of Italian citizens, who pay taxes to obtain in exchange protections and public services and not to take on the tasks that would be the responsibility of the international community, the European Union and the UN in the first place; institutions that, in the opinion of the proposers, hypocritically exalted and noble humanitarian intentions except to abandon, always and in any case, Italy to itself. Another important point: the significant damage, from the image point of view, that the places hosting the reception centres or affected by the landings have endured and will bear further (considered that in summer the arrivals will increase considerably), especially in the vicinity of the bathing season, being municipalities that often have a significant tourist activity. The motion therefore commits the Government to immediately interrupt the Mare nostrum mission, strengthening controls to combat criminal trafficking in human beings; to promote immediate initiatives by the European Union and the international community to address the problem of those who have the right to asylum and come from areas where there are ongoing conflicts. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u10	I address on behalf of the Assembly a greeting to the students of the American University of Rome, accompanied by Professor Patania, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u11	I call Senator Orellana to explain motion 270.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as already happened a few weeks ago in the House, we are today discussing what will be the fate of the military and humanitarian operation in the Mediterranean Sea called Mare nostrum, which began on 18 October 2013 in order to face the current state of humanitarian emergency in the Strait of Sicily, due to the exceptional flow of migrants. As it is now known, the operation is incarnate, strengthening it, inside the device of control of the migratory flows already active within the within of the mission Constant vigilance that the Navy carries out from 2004, with a ship that it crosses permanently in the Strait of Sicily and with aircraft of marine patrolling. Equally well known are the reasons that have prompted Italy to put its military forces in place autonomously. Only on May 12, just a few months after the tragedy of October 3, 2013, in which hundreds of migrants perished, including a large number of women and children, we have witnessed yet another tragedy of the sea. The Mediterranean is turning into a huge sepulchre and the rest of Europe cannot hide its head in the sand or think that to solve the situation it is enough heartfelt phrases and praises for the work carried out by Italy. We are faced with a humanitarian emergency that cannot and must not involve only our country, which must be tackled in a structural, systemic and above all global way or we will not be able to get out of this emerging spiral that every year costs the lives of thousands of people. It should be remembered: Mare nostrum is an emergency instrument, and it cannot and must not become permanent, because immigration has stable, structural, historical characteristics - I dare say - and extremely complex, and as such it must be addressed. By saying this, I absolutely do not want to degrade the work of our Navy: Operation Mare nostrum has carried out and is continuing to do an extremely and absolutely commendable job. Thousands of lives have been saved and hundreds of hullists arrested. But - alas - all this is not enough, and no matter how good the work carried out so far, alone, Italy cannot succeed. Since January more than 40,000 landings have been recorded (the Northern League colleague has even spoken of more than 50,000): a far greater number than last year. And it is a phenomenon destined to increase, given the dramatic situations in Syria, Mali, Egypt, Eritrea, Sudan and Central Africa. The lack of cooperation at European level must therefore be resolved as soon as possible. It is now impossible to pretend that the situation of our country is identical to that of other states in Northern Europe. Italy is at the forefront of tackling the phenomenon of immigration and its consequences, therefore, the European Union must assume its responsibilities and demonstrate that it is first and foremost a true community and not a heterogeneous sum of States, united (if one can speak of union) exclusively from economic issues and logics. A long time ago it was said that on the problem of managing migratory flows in the Mediterranean Italy must say exactly what it wants. Well, we're doing it now. Our motion is extremely clear and straightforward: it aims primarily at a profound change in the nature of Mare nostrum and not, as some of my colleagues propose, in a perhaps a little too simplistic way, at its elimination. It is necessary to transform Operation Mare nostrum into a European Union mission, the only way to make the Mediterranean Sea safer for all. Our motion calls for Frontex, set up as an agency ten years ago, to be completely redesigned, to be made more current and, in particular, to coordinate with the other instrument to prevent cross-border crimes, such as trafficking in human beings or drug trafficking and, at the same time, to identify and assist small boats of migrants in danger, namely the European Border Surveillance System (Eurosur). At the moment, in fact, we see more than anything a dysfunctional duplication of functions, dysfunctions that frankly we cannot afford. I would also point out that Frontex's budget has fallen in the last three years and is decreasing every year. The motion also calls for a thorough review of Regulation No. 604/2012 (Dublin III), which to date obliges migrants to seek asylum in the country of arrival (verosimly Italy and the countries of Mediterranean Europe), when in reality many migrants would like to reach the States of Northern Europe. Finally, our motion wants every effort to be made, at international and bilateral level, to conclude cooperation agreements with the countries from which they come, or through which they transit, migrants direct to Europe. We believe in fact that preventive action in the countries of origin, most of which, politically, institutionally and socially in rubble (just think about what is happening now in Syria), is absolutely essential in order to effectively manage migratory flows in the Mediterranean. The prerequisites for achieving this are laid down in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which lays down the principle of solidarity and fair distribution of responsibility, including in financial terms, between Member States in the field of border controls, asylum and immigration. Perhaps not so much the legal bases, but the will, because up to now we have used only fine words, certainly welcome but concretely not usable. Beyond the specific commitments of our document, I would like to conclude by saying that the cornerstone of our request is primarily the protection of the right to life. Immigration is not a problem linked to a specific political ideology; it is a common, cross-cutting problem, and as such it must be dealt with by all the parliamentary components in a unified manner. Every human life has the same immeasurable value for us. We have come to Parliament deeply convinced of this: every life deserves protection regardless of origin, social extraction, spoken language, professed religion or skin color. From 1 July this year Italy will chair the Council of the European Union, one of the key points of the semester will have to be the relaunch of the immigration issue and the strengthening of Mediterranean policy, proposing a master plan that strategically and credibly addresses all aspects related to immigration. It will be the right opportunity to call for greater cooperation between Member States through appropriate funding for the relief and reception of refugees and refugees themselves, as well as the fight against trafficking in human beings, thus achieving the Communityisation of asylum and immigration policies that the European Council of 25 October 2013 left pending. An opportunity that we very much hope Italy will not miss. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u13	Colleagues, I would like to ask you a moment of attention to see you plan and organize our work, for your sake and our usefulness. In view of the time taken for illustration and general discussion, I would conclude our sitting with the expression of the opinions and the intervention of the Undersecretary and I would refer explanations of vote and the final vote back to tomorrow morning. Since there are no comments, this remains the case. I call Senator Donno to explain motion 271.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u14	Mr President, members of the Government, Mare nostrum, as well as bringing back to mind only one sea, ours, the Mediterranean, is the synthesis of a phenomenon involving regulatory and conventional simulations and, together with them, the indispensable need to safeguard life and the human being. I would like to refer to the detailed description of the most discussed humanitarian and military task force in recent months, the number of forces involved, the amount of aircraft, helicopters and human resources employed - already well known to all - in order to get to the core of the matter and why we are dealing with Mare nostrum today in this House. Before this discussion, during the current legislature, many actions of the 5 Star Movement have been on the subject. Actions that we have promptly reviewed in our motion. In the political Commission of the European Union, during the examination of the law of European delegation we presented an agenda at first signature of Senator Serra, then accepted as a recommendation, in which we explicitly committed the Government to suspend the practice of refusal, implementing the international treaties already in force. On the same agenda, we called for action to be taken to repeal the offence of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the State, because this is not compatible with our constitutional rule. Again, during the Assembly on 20 October, when the President-in-Office of the Council heard the information report on the European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013 in Brussels, our Group tabled a first-signed resolution by Senator Taverna, which, more than seven months ago, would already have committed the Government to improving coordination between Member States in the control of maritime borders, strengthening the role of the Frontex agency, verifying its functions and effectiveness, and proposing a remodulation of the principles laid down in Regulation 2013/604, also known as the Dublin III Regulation. We knew well and stressed strongly the fact that - and I quote - the humanitarian emergency concerns the whole of Europe and not only the countries facing the Mediterranean Sea, which are most affected by migratory flows. As stated in the recitals to our motion, we already considered the flaws of the Dublin III Regulation to be clear at that time, which basically reproduces the same general principle as that contained in both the 1990 Dublin Convention and the subsequent Dublin II, namely that every application for asylum continues to be examined by a single Member State and that the competence for examining the request falls, first of all, on the nation which has played a greater role in relation to the applicant's entry and residence in the territory of the Member States, with exceptions. In essence, there were very few adjustments made. As has already been said in the first days of our Movement in Parliament, we believe that, at Community level, it is worth pointing out that the Lisbon Treaty has confirmed the European Union's commitment to developing a common immigration policy, but it has not given the Union itself the necessary regulatory powers on the entry of migrants for work purposes, leaving this crucial issue entirely to the competence of individual Member States. It is obvious that this type of approach will not last. That is why in the text of our motion we call for a change of course which fully invests the phenomenon of immigration, as in the area of justice. From an internal regulatory point of view, there is the single text on immigration, supplemented by Law No 94 of 2009, which, in turn, introduced the crime of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the State. Article 19 of this text states that under no circumstances may an expulsion or refusal be made to a State in which a foreigner may be persecuted on grounds of race, sex, language, nationality, religion, political opinions, personal or social conditions, or may risk being sent back to another State in which he is not protected from persecution. It is found in the facts that this provision is evaded whenever, due to a lack of clarification in this sense, minor migrants of age are accompanied forcefully by captains of port, Coast Guard and Guard of finance in the States of origin, without any investigation has been made aimed at ascertaining whether among the rejected immigrants there are asylum seekers. This is more than necessary, especially if we take into account what has happened in recent months and what is happening every day on the Italian coasts. Our fundamental Charter, in this sense, is crystal clear. We are bound to be consistent in legislation and, in retrospect, behavioral. In the light of the current situation, however, all existing acts - both at internal, European and international level, including the discussed Mare nostrum operation - have proved to be ineffective or in some way useful for resolving the difficulties associated with the migration phenomenon. The commitments we had proposed in the legal acts several months ago were punctually ignored, not to say completely ignored! This leads us to commit the Government again and more forcefully to carrying out a series of fundamental actions. Within the motion of the 5 Star Movement - unlike other texts oriented mostly to put a flag on the subject rather than to propose solutions - you will find punctual commitments on which we are called to vote. First of all, given the forthcoming Italian Presidency of the European Union, we call for more decisive cooperation between Member States to address the humanitarian emergency in the Mediterranean. Adequate funding is needed for relief and reception of refugees and refugees; human trafficking must be combated. For too long, in too many cases, Europe has remained a stone spectator in the face of the speculations of multinationals in African territories, the dramas of Darfur, the wars in Libya, the uncontrolled sale of weapons. Secondly, the Government must actively support the essential actions carried out by both the Frontex Agency and the European Asylum Support Office and the other bodies responsible for managing the phenomenon. Now more than ever, it is necessary to unite, in a single European body, the functions of the parties involved through the move of the operational headquarters to Lampedusa. Only in this way will it be possible to coordinate the rescue and assistance operations for migrants and to protect the borders of the European Union, sharing the human and economic burden of this dramatic emergency among the Member States. In this direction, the calls towards the Union must be continued for more effective action towards countries of origin and transit, committing and encouraging their governments to carry out a serious policy of management of flows, especially in the fight against criminal organizations speculating on the despair of others through the trafficking of human beings. It's the invisible threads of the mafia that hide behind these traffics. Selling weapons for wars, then ferrying the victims, as if they had a bipolar syndrome. It is the Government that must also work to suspend the hateful practice of rejection, favoring the reunion of children with parents. And this is because these are practices that undermine the fundamental rights of the person and that are strongly stigmatized by the international treaties that Italy has signed and that, therefore, must respect, without if and without but. Furthermore, at Community and international level, the Union must implement Council Directive 2001/55/EC, which lays down minimum standards for the granting of temporary protection in the event of massive inflows, and urge the European Commission to activate the Council in order to take temporary measures for the benefit of the Member State or Member States concerned by a sudden influx of third-country nationals. The Italian Presidency will have to provide an opportunity to initiate, at the relevant institutions of the European Union and at the United Nations, cooperation and development activities, humanitarian missions aimed at setting up centres for asylum seekers and refugees directly on the coasts of North Africa. Finally, but not least, it is necessary to streamline the procedures of reception and verification of the legal situations of all migrants so that they can quickly leave the Italian territory, reuniting with relatives who, usually, are already in the countries of Northern Europe. In conclusion, there are no prepacked formulas that solve the issue with a snap of a finger. However, it would suffice to agree on three fundamental principles: humanity, unity and universality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u15	I call Senator Casini to explain motion 272.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I begin my brief speech on the illustration of motion 272 - a composite motion, because it has been tabled by representatives of various parliamentary groups - I would like to remind you of what the Head of State said this morning. The Head of State has used an expression, in my opinion, particularly happy to synthesize the human sense, even before political, of the mission "Mare nostrum". The President of the Republic said: We didn't turn our heads on the other side. Here, this was simply what our country did: in the face of an emergency caused by a huge tragedy, which shocked the countries of North Africa and other countries, such as Syria, Italy did not turn its head on the other side. Our country has assumed responsibility for an extraordinary, immediate and unrepeatable management of a flow of desperate people, many of whom have inevitably found death in the bottom of a sea so fascinating and so terrible as the Mediterranean Sea. Italy has set in motion its best energies and from this House, so solemn and so significant for national sovereignty, I feel like thanking military personnel, the Navy and our military all, but also and above all, at this moment, our mayors, who are taking extraordinary additional action and who face the emergency firsthand. [[Applause from the PI, PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] So military, citizens, mayors and local administrators: Italy has not looked on the other side. It has taken responsibility to do everything possible to save lives, people who have different skin from ours, who come from very distant territories, but who we could not let die in our indifference. And here we are, ladies and gentlemen. This is what gave rise to the Mare nostrum mission, of which we are proud and certainly not ashamed, because it is our national identity card, also compared to other European countries that unfortunately - let us say the truth - turn their faces to the other side. Colleagues, we are here, however, in politics and we must face the reality, not only for the extraordinary aspects of humanity that have seen our country excel, as always, but also for the aspects that have been raised, moreover, also by colleagues of the opposition. Colleagues of the League, we are people who come to Parliament to listen to others, without ever having the prejudice that others say wrong things and that we alone have the truth. We all listen and have listened carefully to you and to other colleagues who have highlighted another side of the coin that, unfortunately, is there. Let's tell the truth. This mission of ours has had a priority aim: to save lives. However, there is an intent that a country like Italy must have: to intercept those responsible for the illegal trafficking of migrants and to prosecute them. On this second aspect the Mare nostrum mission has necessarily achieved much less results and, indeed, the warnings that have arrived in our Commissions from the heads of the Ministry of the Interior speak clearly: there has been a largely predictable phenomenon, but it is very worrying, of an extension beyond measure of the migratory flows, which are still expected to be further expanded in the coming months. We can't pretend we don't see. Even from this point of view, we can't turn our heads on the other side. It is clear that this measure is emerging, is suitable in the short term and that, in the absence of suitable monitoring and patrolling devices, it is aimed at avoiding further disasters. But today we must take a step further with this parliamentary debate. We must say first of all that we expected more cooperation from Europe and we commit the Government - this is the meaning of our parliamentary motion - to an effort in Europe, before and during the European Semester, in the multilateral seat of the United Nations to properly involve the other countries. I know this is not easy. If anyone thinks the government's magic wand is enough, they're wrong. Unfortunately, it is a matter of recovering years and also of Community measures which have been taken in a certain dimension and in a certain logic. This, however, is what the Senate of the Republic inevitably has to commit our Government to, because there is a need to internationalize a problem that is in no way an Italian problem. It is a problem that involves Europe as the final destination of so many people and different countries in which we do not have a status today. I would therefore like to open a parenthesis. I am President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration and I want to tell you, sincerely, that the President of the Council of the time, Mr Berlusconi, was not wrong when he stated that our initiative in Libya could probably have brought more problems than results. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is true that we no longer have a dictator, but unfortunately we risk having a multiplicity of dictators, and a state reality with which to make agreements is no longer there: this is the great problem facing the international community. President Gasparri asked for the presence of the Government, which for us is represented almost at the highest level. We know that Minister Alfano, Minister Mogherini and Minister Pinotti listen to us. Our problem with the international community is that we cannot apply the Albania scheme. In this scheme we have done one simple thing: we have done a preventive operation on the territory of Albania. There was a situation and, therefore, a deal could be made. Today we do not know who to agree with in Libya, for the simple reason that a national state identity is completely non-existent. Also the international community of the United Nations with whom goes to dialogue to establish possible garrisons on this territory? In this motion, however, we refer to this initiative, because we know that this is the way to be able, in the short term, to deal seriously with this problem. We are of course referring to Frontex, Eurosur and all those initiatives that need to be seen as a more significant presence than Europe. For the rest, I refer you to the text of the motion, because I see that the President looks at me from the top of his seat with the concern that my speech goes beyond the ten minutes that have been allocated to me, and I do not know if I have already used them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u18	Instead, it is the attention that I will soon pay to his words, Senator Casini: but don't worry, I will escape when he passes the term.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u19	CASINI (PI). Thank you, Mr Calderoli: your sensitivity is equal to the importance of the debate we are facing here in Parliament. It is therefore financially unsustainable for Italy to continue to manage in solitude the humanitarian emergency faced with Mare nostrum, all the more in the current situation of serious and persistent difficulties of public finance. There is a need for Italy to be supported by the European Union and its bodies and for these bodies to be put into practice. That's why we think that the continuation of the operation Mare nostrum is causing problems that can no longer be postponed and that, in addition to the exorbitant onerosity of the device, it is of all evidence that the same operation poses a problem of overcoming, because it is a buffer measure, certainly of short strategic and inevitably insufficient to face the not more emergent character, but structural of this phenomenon. So here is the meaning of our motion: we did well not to turn our head on the other side, but today there is the need to understand what the exit strategy from Mare nostrum can be, with a wider involvement and initiatives to be brought into the African territory, once realized a minimum of statutory interlocation with our fees on the other side of the Mediterranean Sea. This is of course a difficult path, and we know that no motion tabled here at the Senate can be the solution to the problem, but this path of concreteness and seriousness has no alternative, because the demagogy on the skin of so many poor people I believe that none of us can Allow yourself to do so. [[Applause from Group PI and Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u20	I call Senator Scavone to explain motion 273.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u21	Mr President, today is an opportunity to focus here, in the Senate Chamber, on this issue, eight months after the launch of the Mare nostrum operation, enough time to elaborate the considerations that have been made here, each from its own point of view. However, the position of the Group of Great Autonomous States and Freedoms is first and foremost focused on the fact that it is not possible to accept the great responsibility that the EU has had that, if it is not legally and judicially enforceable, it is an important political responsibility. I have reviewed the acts from 1990 to 1992: from there - as my colleague from the 5 Star Movement Group pointed out in her speech - perhaps an underestimation of the problem begins, because it was believed that in the end, in the free journey following the fall of the barriers of the Euro-Mediterranean area, there would be a possibility of work for everyone. I remember President Prodi's statement, which then, in commentary on the facts, said that this was possible, but then of course, at the time when there began to be a movement that was difficult to hold and never comparable with what is happening in these months - and we were just in the mid-1990s - we invented Frontex and the Dublin I, II and III regulations. Among other things, in recent years how much responsibility has there been in having suffered the prevailing interest of a component which, apart from the economic aspects and the difficulties that have arisen in the balance of Europe, has led to a reduction of attention? I am referring to Germany, which wanted to take this aspect into account in good neighbourly relations, those which concerned it most closely, i.e. with regard to the countries of the East. We started last year with a humanitarian operation, as President Casini said in a very heartfelt way, and we made a great and beautiful figure. With humanitarian impetus we tried to give a solution that then turned out to be a rebound that probably caused the exponential increase and the multiplication of landings in our southern lands, and in a very particular way in Sicily. The costs have also been underestimated, which had to be 1.5 million but - they have been remembered - today we are at about 10 million euros per month. I want to remember another aspect. The returns of non-EU citizens arriving from the Mediterranean border countries cost us 25,000 euros for every illegal return. In 2010 41,000 illegals were repatriated: this means that the cost that our country has had to bear now exceeds by far the billion. I would like to stress yet another aspect, which has least been mentioned in the motions before our House, namely what is happening on the territory: I am referring in particular to the collapse that is taking place in the prefecture offices. Just have a chat with the prefects, who by large state officials are always measured and rigorous, to understand how a few dozen employees, who normally have to manage the work of the prefectures, are now engaged in very heavy tasks. I would like to remind you of the fact that the committees have been set up. They would need eight to ten of them in every reality. Speaking of the Sicilian one, in my province in particular there are two. Moreover, last week we were wandered by Europe for the delays in the recognition - impossible - of a mass of immigration that now exceeds the thousand people per day. And there was no use in the insufficient intervention of the Minister of the Interior who, with a circular of a few months ago, invited the prefects to identify spaces to better organize the reception. On the outskirts the spaces can also be found, they are late and with difficulty, but lack the organization, the investment and the staff in order to be able to welcome these people properly. We are facing a humanitarian disaster as well as civil protection. The civil protection of this country - I want to remember, many years ago, those dramatic 20 and 21 November in Irpinia - runs and presides with men, means and organization an unplanned drama. This was predictable, but the central government has left the prefectures, mayors and health facilities in their inadequacy to a daily aggression of this kind. The mayors are shouting at an alarm that is no longer manageable. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many unaccompanied minors are currently to be hosted by mayors and initiated to temporary custody? These are situations that we will deal with in another intervention that we are preparing for the management of aspects that concern minors, but which basically concern the management of reception centres, which have become very lucrative Ministries at our latitude. Well, the unaccompanied minors in our land, in Sicily, are now 3,000 and their management involves a disbursement of at least 230,000 euros per day. They are no longer sustainable costs. By the way, what pressure are our territories under? I remind you of the devastation unfortunately suffered by Lampedusa last summer, which destroyed in that season - and who knows for how many years still - its tourist propensity, which is happening now also in the coasts of Ragusano (Cito Pozzallo), Siracusano and Catania, that is in any other emergency landing place that is currently being used in Sicily. And again, what did the central government do to deal with the health emergency that is becoming dramatic? Yesterday an official of the prefecture of Catania told me that they had to make a collection to buy antibiotics and tachypyrin for some children, since there is no cheap coverage for the purchase of drugs. Yet ASLs, the Red Cross and hospital companies do what they can, but they certainly cannot manage from here to the end of the summer the 100,000 immigrants coming from Africa, and almost 50,000 have already arrived. Then the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group, with the motion under consideration, wants to commit the Government to a series of concrete initiatives, first by strengthening the prefectures of adequate resources, men and organizations such as health structures and, subsequently, by finding a solution to the difficulty of identification, which is impossible with the tools we have today. Therefore, we call for an immediate humanitarian visa to be provided with the cooperation of the countries of Europe that organize with carriers, within 24 hours, the transfer of immigrants to the sites where they want to go. I remember that they arrive in Sicily because it is their landing place, but then they want to go to Sweden and Germany. On the contrary, they remain in Sicily, in our reception centres, which at this moment are a gracious tool for those who organize those trips, and not a dignified solution for migrants. For once, this country, this government, be proud, with balls. [[Recalls of the President]] , and demand from Europe to recover, even by climbing from the payments we make, the costs of an operation that in these terms can no longer continue. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u22	Of course, she was referring to soccer, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the emergency is now in fashion in Italy and Italians are a people who are now living in the emergency, always called to express the best in the face of difficulties. In this case the emergency is the reception of migrants landed on the Italian coast, or rather on the Sicilian coasts. This, gentlemen, can't be normal. Let's remember that, on October 18, 2013, after the massacre of Lampedusa, Operation Mare nostrum began to face the state of humanitarian emergency in progress in the Strait of Sicily. From October to today 27,790 immigrants have been rescued, 3.034 of whom are minors. Of these 93 percent transit from Libya, a country still too unstable to be able to control the boats that take off to Italy. From 18 October last the operation Mare nostrum has rescued beyond 12,000 people, almost all recovered from the ships of our Navy, with costs to the Defense of approximately 9,3 million euros per month, according to the means engaged and own participation. Mare nostrum is a failure of the government, now before everyone's eyes. It would have been better if, instead of employing our Navy, wasting millions of euros a month, the Government had asked the Coast Cruises to go and pick up the illegals at sea. (Senator Bottici's mobile phone emits a light in the direction of the Presidency.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Bertorotta. Senator Bottici, please, it should be you who enforces the rules: you risk blinding me. At least disable the flash. Are you kidding me? A Senator Quaestor pointing the laser at the President? [[Laughter]] Excuse me, Senator Bertorotta, but I wouldn't want a weapon or an offensive instrument behind the laser. BERTOROTTA (M5S). I don't think so. I trust the Commissioner. The Government could have asked the Costa Crociere to go to pick up the illegals at sea, having to guarantee also the accommodation facilities, a bed and more to every migrant, as established in January by the Ministry of the Interior, with the information sent to all the prefects, with additional costs to be borne by Italy. There's an unacceptable immigration business. We are talking about orders from millions of euros, on which many are getting rich, where people's rights disappear, as reported by Christopher Hein, director of the Italian Refugee Council. Aspirants to refugee status are the most delicious slice of the cake. That is why that has become a real city of asylum seekers. The CARA di Mineo, housed in the Orange Village, first inhabited by American officers stationed in Sigonella, has become the engine of the economy of this part of the province of Catania: 4,000 people of 50 different ethnicities, twice the capacity, fruit at the Consortium Calatino Terra of Reception the figure of 50 million euros per year. The reception system is collapsing. We no longer have places to take them and many local populations are indispected by the continuous arrival of foreigners, even though they do not back out in giving them what they need. But until when? The Italian territory, specifically the Sicilian territory, must be protected. We cannot talk about the success of Operation Mare nostrum. We should intervene to drastically reduce the time taken to issue asylum permits, both in the province of Catania and in those of Trapani, Agrigento and Enna, due to the insufficient commissions that deal with them. Visiting the CARA of Mineo and the CIE of Pozzallo I interviewed the occupants of these centers; the main complaint that they moved was that they came here perhaps to join relatives in Northern Europe and found themselves forced to stay a year and a half in these centers, without a job, an occupation and without wishing to stop in Italy. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, is certainly against rejections and is in favour of an acceleration of these bureaucratic procedures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u24	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u25	Mr President, I believe that very well, in full respect of the debate held a few weeks ago in the House, President Casini wanted to start from the hearing held in the Senate at the end of April in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Commissions of the Senate of the Republic. I say'very fittingly' because, in various ways, all the motions under discussion today do not express a judgment of condemnation, absolution or triumphalism. They have much more ambition than the same debate in the House a few weeks ago: they try to outline a plot forward, a path out of the nightmare due to Mare nostrum. The hearing of the Central Director of Immigration and Border Police at the Ministry of the Interior was useful because it provided our observation, with political brutality, some data, sometimes absent. In fact, one of the difficulties of our country's international relations is also due to the media mediocrity we live in. That central director said Libya is gone, it's gone as a government. I say this, with great friendship, to Senator Arrigoni, an inconsolable widower of the good times of the Government with Maroni at the Viminale, when Libya was a State and there was a Government. Today there is an irremediably lost state; there is a sort of free beach, of tribal disintegration not so much of an Executive as of an interlocutor. That central director came to express a terrible fact, even more terrible than the pessimistic ones of some of the motions under consideration: the profile of migratory flows today is determined almost exclusively by the demand for the right to asylum; therefore, on that territory of free beach, there are Eritrean, Malaysian, Syrian migrants, of Gambia, Somalia, Senegal, Pakistan: there may be 800,000 people, perhaps even more, who undertake journeys that, with horrendous sociology, we call "hope" but that are journeys of despair. In order to cope with this exceptional wave of migration, what we have been able to put on the field in these eight months has been necessary but insufficient, and it had in itself the heroism of being always and in any case insufficient. I have no difficulty in associating myself with gratitude for the mayors of those municipalities most invaded, but I believe that we owe the same gratitude to the national state, to what remains of it, to the prefectures. Undersecretary Delrio, we are cautious, we do not disappear: the Italian national state compared to the French state is a national state that is in the suburbs, in which the institute of the prefects, with all the understanding for the articles of Luigi Einaudi, is not the pursuit of Napoleon, but the way of making State also in the suburbs, with the provider of studies, with that of public works, with everything that, really "head of the head," fifteen years ago the laws Bassanini have thought to absorb. Then, those migratory flows that easily invest the Sicilian Canal found in operation Mare nostrum what someone called tourist catwalks, someone else had expressions, for charity more than legitimate, but equally raw; however, look that it is the honour of any Navy, regardless of the origin, the circumstances and the color of the skin, to help and not to kill those who risk dying: and this operation Mare nostrum in large figures, in figures greater than us, guaranteed it. It remains insufficient, however, with regard to the prospects, as well as the sensitivity of the international community remains inadequate and disappointing - we must say -. Moreover, at least in Europe the history of emigration has different faces. Since the early 1990s, it has been directed towards Germany and the Scandinavian countries, following the dissolution of the communist world. Perhaps it was a qualitatively less destabilizing emigration than for Sicily that of these eight months, but Germany had to change its Constitution on its own. Europe has a lot of talk and a lot of rhetoric, no sensitivity. We too have had some sensitivity, but it is completely inadequate. It is clear then that this issue has an international profile. Someone talked about the United Nations. Well, in the delegation of this Parliament to the OSCE Assembly in the coming weeks there is an Italian colleague who has foreseen a motion and I believe that it is more than legitimate, instead of the United Nations, to have as interlocutor that human rights forum, that antidote to human trafficking that has been the OSCE for many years. From this point of view I can reassure the representative of the Government that there has been no pettiness of what I have heard in this House. What do I mean? That the motion of the colleague who tabled it was signed by all the representatives of the Italian delegation. In this spirit, I say that it is right, legitimate, intelligent and necessary (it was anticipating the Senate hearing of the Central Director of Immigration) to criticize the Dublin III text of last summer. Indeed, the revision of the Convention on the right of asylum exposes too much the country of first reception, in this case Italy. However, it is very difficult, after having had Dublin III, for us to victimise ourselves with Europe. Regardless of Alfano, Letta, Renzi, Mogherini, Bonino: let's leave! When Italy plays out of the house there is the Government institution, not feudalism. For this reason, too, I never liked the principle contained in the Bassanini laws. There is certainly an international profile to be re-explored, to be retracted. There is no need to use rawness of language to understand how Italy alone can never make it. On the other hand, among many beautiful profiles Italy has the unique profile of borders very exposed because made by thousands and thousands of kilometers of coast. The Letta Government, Minister Alfano, the Renzi Government and others have tried to call European solidarity on this. Haven't they done enough? We note this, and with the motions under discussion we want to open a new phase of international politics in the continuity of those values and principles of openness that characterize the history of our national state. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Scavone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a delicate issue by trying to avoid demagogies and easy simplifications by trying to get into the substance of such a complex issue that it challenges - as has been said - not only the policies of a single state, but those of Europe. It is essential to emphasise that the issue of migratory flows and landings is a problem that can and must be addressed with rationality. It has already been said, but I want to highlight and return to the context in which the choice of military and humanitarian operation in the Mediterranean Sea has matured. Operation Mare nostrum was born to face the state of humanitarian emergency underway in the Strait of Messina. Among other things, it should be remembered that in the summer of 2013, compared to the previous year, migratory flows increased by 220 percent. Operation Mare nostrum, however, had a twofold objective, indeed it still has it now: the first is to guarantee the safeguard of life at sea; the second is to assure justice of all those who profit from the despair and misery of other human beings. This is the context in which the choice has been made and before giving a judgment on the operation it is necessary to know the results. Since the start of the operation have been rescued by our Navy (there has been a ballet of figures on the matter, but I quote the source of the Ministry of the Interior, which was indicated in the motion presented by the majority and illustrated by President Casini) over 39,000 people, of which over 5,000 children, many of whom, as has been said, if abandoned to themselves would probably have become victims of the sea. Among other things, without providing percentage data, most of them are asylum seekers, so they are not illegal but human beings who come from disastrous family situations, who would like to reunite with their families in other countries of Europe and cannot do so because of the criteria laid down in the Dublin III regulation, mentioned earlier by Senator Compagna, which exposes the country of first reception. We therefore also call for action to be taken in this respect. However, I would like to return to the summary, because also thanks to these patrols have been stopped and delivered to the judicial authority, even if it has been said that it is not enough, about 200 hullers and the returns of irregular immigrants have continued, there has been no shipwreck, four mother ships have been captured, the induced of the criminal organizations that in Italy provided for the management on the national territory of the migrants has diminished. These are the reasons, as has already been said in the motion tabled by the majority and illustrated by President Casini, with whom I agree, for the goodness, positivity and success of Operation Mare nostrum, which has achieved significant results in the repression of the phenomenon of migrant trafficking. As the Head of State has rightly said yesterday on the occasion of the feast of the Navy, Italy has not turned on the other side, but has assumed responsibility and has rescued - I repeat - about 40,000 people, of which 5,000 children. In this sense it must also be expressed on our part, for my part, a feeling of admiration for the generosity with which the Navy is facing this emergency together with other bodies of the state: the Carabinieri's weapon, the Finance Guard, the State Police, the Air Force, among other things with a massive coordination activity between all the various bodies that is actually a key to the success of this operation. Of course, it is now necessary to stimulate and raise awareness, as we are doing, of the international community, but the problem of immigration is particularly complex and delicate and particularly at this historic moment concerns the serious political instability of the African countries of the Mediterranean and those of sub-Saharan Africa. In fact, the cyclical nature of the crisis that goes through those countries, due to the fragility of the internal political balances and their state apparatus, means that the phenomenon of immigration has a structural and non-emergency nature. We therefore need a real change of pace at European level too, on the basis that the lives rescued at sea represent an absolute value. In this context, a strong strengthening of the partnership strategies with the countries of origin and the countries of transit of migratory flows is desirable. In conclusion, I think that no one in this House wants to return to the previous situation of the summer of 2013, when we were forced to witness the tragedy of the shipwreck in the south of Lampedusa, after which 366 migrants lost their lives. I think this House has the rationality and clarity to know that politics can and must find new solutions, but bearing in mind that rights and life are at the heart of our action. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u29	Mr President, first of all I would like to give an answer to Mr Casini when he says that we have not turned our faces to the other side, as the President of the Republic has also said, in relation to this invasion. It's true. We have not turned our backs on the other side of the illegals: we have done so, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the unemployed, the elderly, the exodus and all those who have asked us for help in recent years and for whom policy has turned their faces on the other side in recent years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, we did not do so with regard to the newcomers: congratulations! Yesterday the Minister of the Interior informed us that the estimate for 2014 is about 100,000 illegals: a disaster, colleagues! One hundred thousand illegals are really many, and they are many more than the maximum we had achieved in recent years. Yesterday, in addition to this news, the Minister of Defence also wanted to give us a communication: he told us that the Defense can no longer support the weight of the operation and that it must be included in the decree missions that, if I am not mistaken, is that decree that finances and carries out all the humanitarian missions that our military abroad are carrying out. Well, why include it in the mission decree, ladies and gentlemen? Let's insert it in the decree tourism, seen and considered that our Navy does not go to take migrants and illegals in our waters, but goes to pick them up directly on the coasts of North Africa. We then insert this operation into the tourism decree and we will certainly have results. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] How much does this operation cost us? About 10 million euros per month for patrols; about 35 euros per day per capita for food and accommodation; and, in addition, there are flights for domestic transfers. It's money. It is that money that, when we talked about the jobs act, when we started talking about work in this House and the government came to tell us that there was no money, we advised to use, rather than for the reception of illegal immigrants, for our young people, for our exodus or for the 50-year-olds left out of work. 18.02 p.m. (Following Hundreds of Years). My colleagues, most of all, justify the operation by saying: helping and not killing. I would say that we must not help them, but we must not let them go, which is a totally different thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If you don't let them go, you don't have to help them. If you help them in their countries of origin or if you help them on the coasts of North Africa you don't have to help them halfway and you don't have to go and catch them in the Libyan waters. The operation "Mare vostrum" is drifting our entire country, and is driving the local authorities, municipalities, provinces (as far as it remains of the Provinces), obliged to manage a reception imposed by prefects unable. In fact, when a prefect calls a hotel asking if there are free rooms, without explaining the reason, when the hotel responds that there are free rooms and, after a few hours, the prefect imposes (repeat: imposes it!) the reception of non-EU citizens, illegal immigrants, which means that that prefect is not able to do his duty. At the health level, then, there are cases of TB confirmed among our military. And that's not what Senator Centinario says, but mayor Marino, who writes to ministers Lorenzin and Alfano to avoid emergencies for public health, wanting to avoid cases of TB and HIV. The Minister of the Interior also tells us: "We are tired," "Europe is not giving us answers that we expected." But, dear Minister, aren't you the one who signed the Treaty of Dublin? Senator Centinario didn't sign it! And then, Minister, if you're tired, go home. Go home, nobody tells you to be a minister, the doctor didn't order it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There's a lot of doctors here, but none of them ordered it. Give your resignation and rest. And then, Minister, Europe, your Europe, is as guilty as you are of this disaster. Do not come now to accuse Europe, its Europe, to which you love so much. So, Minister, you're not able to handle that ministry that Roberto Maroni did with excellent results. You, Minister, can't handle public order. You, Minister, deal with the violent fringes of the fans. You, Minister, can't stop the invasion, so that means you're tired. It means you have to go home as soon as possible! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u30	Senator Centinario, please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u31	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm done, ma'am. I'm done. While our entrepreneurs commit suicide, our elders do not arrive at the end of the month and our young people do not find work, you waste our money to welcome the invaders. So, Minister, it is not the League that is asking you to go home, it is the Italian citizens, who even with the vote expressed in the European elections have shown you that you and your party may be tired, a little too tired. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, President, today we are going to face one of the most burning problems of our time. Globalisation, the unbridled and wild enterprise, the unequal consumerism have broken the natural balances that had been created throughout the world over the centuries. Everywhere there are peoples engaged in fratricidal wars and everything for an economic power, controlled by strong powers, which is not unscrupulous to reduce whole populations to hunger. The weakest nations are being robbed of all resources and trafficking in arms, drugs and human beings is being favoured. We find ourselves, therefore, with whole continents that have migrant peoples in search of false happiness or that run away from bloody struggles for power. For years this migration has been concentrated in the countries of North Africa and is heading towards our coasts. Italy has become the country to invade. Yes, because this is no longer controlled immigration, but it is full invasion. This exodus is managed by criminal organizations from various countries, who profit from these desperate journeys. This traffic continues to enrich the mafias of transport at sea and the new mafias of transport on land: from the South of Italy hundreds of coaches transport the illegals to the centers of the big cities and abandon them there, in vain, with the consequences of degradation that we know. Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, China, Africa, Syria: immigrants on boats come from everywhere. This is a global emergency, not a territorial one. Italy is facing this emergency not its own, but of the whole world and the UN yesterday was also allowed to say: "Italy must not be left alone." Are they kidding us? The international organizations must take charge of these exodus, Italy can take care of a part of these migrants, but the rest must manage other countries. The UN must assume its responsibilities and create CARAs on the African coasts, militarily controlled by blue helmets. Bilateral agreements must be ratified with countries that are stabilizing, such as Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia and Morocco, for the reception, identification and regularization of these human beings and for deciding which countries to take them away from the deaths at sea. And for Libya, an unstable country where ferocious crimes, rapes and rapes of all kinds are consumed, a real humanitarian mission must be launched. Italy must also establish a medical cordon for prevention, as there is a revival of diseases now missing, such as tuberculosis, yellow fever, smallpox, ebola, since on our ships, among the workers, these diseases begin to occur. It is time to say enough: Operation Mare nostrum must be replaced by a real control action, so that there are no unconsulted departures. Finally, let us remember that the European countries are pushing for the lifting of the Schengen Agreement, which means that we will find ourselves with hundreds of thousands of people who will neither be able to welcome nor help. Let us go to Europe and make ourselves heard, and let us send the Italian representatives to the UN to ask them to take charge of this mass exodus. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u34	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u35	Madam President, before I asked for Mr Alfano's presence because I did not think it would be useful for this debate to take place in his absence. I say this as a Sicilian senator, as a person who has seen the dead and coffins, as was seen by Minister Alfano who has gone to sign an important Treaty that has armored Italy. So either we always think that this is the place of debate and debate, or we think that not being in this House means not getting hit by the problem, and he is not the necessary solution to the problem. He is, however, the competent minister. I thank the Undersecretary Delrio that I know how to be a good, capable and prepared person. However, there are times for men to face with their faces, when they must be present. In these moments, not in others. If Mr Alfano is not here tomorrow morning, I wonder why we have scheduled this motion in his absence. [[Applause from Senators Alicata, Candiani and Floris]] Or did Alfano feel that he was not here and that he did not follow the proceedings of the Chamber? Next time we can avoid the government being present and have a discussion between us. Sorry, ma'am, there are so many deaths here. In Sicily we live a condition of incredible degradation that only we Sicilians can understand and understand. I would have expected that, after my first appeal and that of Senator Gasparri, Mr Alfano would immediately come to this House. I do this not in a controversial way, but in the hope that tomorrow the Minister will be present in the Senate. Operation Mare nostrum was born on October 18, 2013, a date that everyone recalled, in the aftermath of the tragedy of Lampedusa, a wound at the heart of the families of the dead, of Italy, of the whole of Europe, this last protagonist of a guilty indifference that we still live and suffer today. The then Minister of Defence - we have said it several times today - quantified the country's economic effort to support the operation in one million euros per month. We know very well that we have gone so far away from this figure. The numbers I mentioned in my previous speech: 100 million euros per year for the mission, 9.5 million euros per month, 300,000 euros per day (they are important numbers), over 900 engaged sailors, to which are added the men of Police, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza, Coast Guard, ships and helicopters. It's an untenable leap for our country. Mare nostrum is not only an economic error, but also a strategic and political one. The disastrous operation has proved to be an accomplice in the acts of the criminals, of the scafisti, of those who profit from the desperation of the poor people, of entire peoples. To pay more government errors are Sicily, the Sicilians, but today not only them because Calabria, Puglia, last also Sardinia, and the same migrants are involved. Sicily, however, is the island of natural landing of migrants: it is here that they are welcomed, refurbished, cared for, and this thanks to the great work of the Forces of Order, military, health personnel and volunteers, but also to the availability of the Sicilian population and its administrators. However, the number of migrants arriving on the island is far greater than the reception capacity that Sicily itself can offer. The reception centers are overflowing, the migrants crowd them and it is not possible to have immediate certainty of the health conditions in which they live. The epidemic risk is real, the health of the personnel employed, of the Sicilians and of the migrants themselves is in danger: eight Italian military turned out positive to the test of tuberculosis. As a Sicilian I was able to touch the emergency with my hand and I realized that the point of no return is near. Strongly shaken and worried, last May 6 I presented, apart from this motion, also a question to the Executive, to the Minister of the Interior Angelino Alfano, asking for the stop to the operation, simply asking to copy what in 2011 the then President of the Council Silvio Berlusconi did (as President Casini recalled a moment ago): diplomatic agreements with the African countries to stop the trips of hope at the origin, throwing a hard blow to the criminal organizations that managed them. What about the government today? Absent. Perhaps too busy in an extenuating campaign outside and within his party, Prime Minister Renzi decided to turn his back on the Mezzogiorno. From Sicilian I remember that, when at the central pier of the port of Catania came the coffins, Renzi was engaged to Palermo in an important political manifestation of his party. On that occasion there was a truly surreal situation: from a cruise ship moored at the central pier the tourists looked out to see a series of minibuses with many coffins. The tourists did not understand why there were so many coffins on the harbor, since they were all fine: imagine that there was also a Brazilian music that accompanied the tourists who went up on the ship after spending some time in Catania and on the volcano Etna. Only after a couple of hours, when the cruise ship had left the dock, came the military ship with the corpses. This we saw in Catania, while our Premier was absent - I repeat - to be in another city of our land, Palermo. The Minister of the Interior, on the other hand, perhaps too busy as secretary of the New Right Centre, did the same: I remember when the escort took him away from his city, from his Agrigento, saving him from the angry crowd. In the meantime Sicily sank, migrants died at sea, dedicated personnel put their health at risk. When in Italy the Tandem Letta-Alfano was concerned about conceiving the disastrous Mare nostrum operation, the European Parliament voted an important resolution on 23 October 2013. With this document, Parliament (then rapporteur was MEP Iacolino, also Sicilian) took note of the tragic nature of the problem; it highlighted the need to do everything possible to save the lives of people in danger and to ensure that Member States comply with their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea; it noted that there is still little clarity at EU level regarding the sharing of responsibility between the various entities involved in the provision of assistance to boats in distress, as well as the responsibility for coordinating research and rescue operations. The European institution requested an increase in the budget for the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders (Frontex) in order to assist Member States in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at the external borders, including situations involving humanitarian emergencies and relief at sea; it recalled that adequate funding of these agencies is essential to be able to develop a coordinated approach; it also called on Member States to step up practical cooperation with EASO and Frontex, including through aid in kind; called on the Council and the Commission to consider creating a European Union Coast Guard and to set up another Frontex operational office in areas under migratory pressure, and in particular in the Mediterranean region, with the relevant costs covered by the selected Member States. The governments read before and Renzi later failed to assert what the European Parliament had sanctioned in this resolution. The document stressed the importance of sharing asylum responsibilities by recommending the creation of a mechanism based on objective criteria to reduce pressure on Member States which receive a higher number of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection in absolute or relative terms. Parliament strongly urged the Union to develop a broader strategy, especially for the Mediterranean, which would place labour migration in the context of the social, economic and political development of the neighbourhood countries, and called on the Union and the Member States to examine the instruments available in the framework of the EU's visa policy and its legislation on worker migration. The Renzi Government, therefore, must demand in Europe what the European Parliament itself supported in this resolution. The revision of European Union Regulation No. 604 of 2013, called Dublin III, should be addressed seriously. The Dublin system is based on the assumption that the Member States constitute an area with a uniform level of protection. We all know, however, that this is not the case, because the reception conditions of asylum seekers and the rates of reception of applications for protection are changing dramatically from one country to another. But that's not all. At present, those who obtain international protection do not have the possibility of working regularly in another State of the European Union: this means that, with exceptions, the State which is identified by the Dublin III system as competent to examine the application will also be the State in which the person concerned will have to remain protected once obtained, in accordance with Article 7 and the hierarchy of criteria for the allocation of the State. This does not take into account the aspirations of individuals, their family or cultural ties with certain countries, or the concrete prospects of finding employment in the different European countries. I'm out, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - You have to conclude, Senator. GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). A few seconds, ma'am. Minister Alfano, when he signed the Agreement, did not consider that Italy is a great ship in the Mediterranean and created very dangerous conditions of invasion of our country; too small for extension to collect the millions of migrants who will arrive on our coasts shortly. My invitation is to the Italian Government and all our elected MEPs to review the Treaty immediately. And Minister Alfano will have to choose, in the next few hours: either he is the secretary of the New Right Center or he does that Minister of the Interior, silent and industrious to which we have always been accustomed. This mixture of party function and government function, i.e. the Minister of the Interior, is no longer desirable and bearable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u36	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u37	Madam President, the UN, the day before yesterday, said these words: The immigration issue in the Mediterranean is not a problem that Italy can address on its own. When numbers and figures like today's figures (although migrants are far from mere numbers and troubles to forget that behind those figures there are nuclei of families composed of people, men, women and children), it is inevitable that there is a primary response to the emergency and that it should come from the Europeanisation of immigration. Real cooperation between the European countries is now a necessary step and no longer postponed, a decisive factor in changing an approach that will have to be shared with the other 27 countries of the Union: if we do not cooperate on a priority issue such as this, we will not find a suitable solution and that can give concrete and effective answers. There is therefore, first of all, a question linked to the desire for cooperation in Europe, which is pouring into the relations between Italy and Sicily, a land that - I would like to remind you - represents the continental geopolitical hub in the matter of migrants. It is inevitable and indispensable that structured aid programmes, supported by the Community and international authorities, be set up for the construction of humanitarian corridors in Africa. There are also two other points on which I should like to make a brief comment. First of all, there is a moral issue at stake: those who associate with the word "immigration" only economic terms, with a propaganda aim, forget the real burden that remains in our memory, linked to the continuous violations in terms of fundamental human rights. Not that the economic side for our country is secondary, especially at a time of crisis like this, but there are dramas, like those we see more and more frequently, that cross and cross national borders and deserve more attention. From a legal point of view, it seems essential to change those European standards clearly no longer able to respond to the current problems. If the objective of the legislator was to prevent asylum seekers from being sent from one country to another, it is inconceivable that, in the emerging situation in which we are today, the burden of the entry of masses of poor people in North Africa will not be seriously addressed, according to an integrated approach and established by a reception plan involving all European institutional actors. Currently Italy does what it can and it is thanks to our Navy and operation Mare nostrum that the balance of the victims has not so far reached figures from dizzying. Of course, now is the time to move on from a measure which, although effective from a humanitarian point of view, is still extremely costly and created to be temporary. A future European action that is shared and permanent will have to develop on a double track: at the heart of the problem, in Africa, in an attempt to bring help and help where it is needed immediately; in Europe, where the game of choices on policies that, by their very nature, cross national borders and also involve international authorities is played. Let me also say something about Sicily, which many have mentioned: everyone knows the name of beautiful tourist resorts more for the problems related to immigration than for the absolute landscape wonder of those places. I would like to give an example by quoting a name that perhaps to many of you will not say anything, that is Pozzallo, a town in my province that is near my home, of about 19,000 inhabitants, but with the blue flag. Who knows that Pozzallo has the blue flag anymore? It's all about immigration. How can we not mention Lampedusa, which is a place of wonder and whose population competes for generosity? I turn then to the Government, which is more than honorably represented by its members present here: welcome the instances that come from those Municipalities, from the mayor Nicolini and from the president Crocetta and that offer to your attention a call for help no longer derogable; accept the instances of the Municipalities that welcome the many children coming - who cannot be left with the others - and are not supported economically. Find out how to give new light to the wonder of these places, which have focused their development policies on tourism. We no longer remember that tourism is an extraordinary peculiarity for those cities and communities, we think only of the corpses, the dead and the immigrants who have been welcomed, cared for and respected, because human beings worthy of all attention; these communities, however, ask you for attention and refreshment measures. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u38	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since my speech aims to bring to light certain issues related to the Mare nostrum mission, I would start from the original sin that triggered a series of very unpleasant conditions both for our country and for these immigrants. Last October, neither Letta nor her ministers wanted to accompany rescue operations at sea with a decisive preventive and deterrent action aimed at striking the bases of the traffickers of men on the Libyan territory - that is, Mr President, the original sin - nor does it seem that this action was then carried out by the new Renzi Government: despite the fact that the new President told his predecessor "Enricostaisereno," we know how things went. You see, Mr President, at the beginning of the mission, the criminal organizations had not put any boat into the sea for weeks: they did not do it because they thought that our military had been deployed for blocking operations. The Libyans still remember and are still frightened by the 700 devices, between missiles and bombs, that we launched on them, our allies, and perhaps by the deployment of ships of a certain type, as well as aircraft, rather than helicopters; they were perhaps frightened also because at the moment they thought they were there to carry out rejections: if these had actually been realized, many would also have served to make it understood that Italy did not get conditioned in any way by those criminals. But as soon as they discovered and understood that our military was not there to block them, but to save the shipwrecked, they returned to work better and more than before. From that moment they are coming, and they will arrive, underground from all over the world, with a huge increase in the business of criminal organizations. I'll say more. All the more certain is the rescue from our fleets, so much the greater is the illusion of a safe rescue: whoever has a bathrobe to put into the sea, will use it with obvious and enormous risks for those who are transported, and the traffic of men will only be stimulated. It is in fact, Madam President, that there will be more than 60,000 landings. We think it's a very, very optimistic estimate. Maybe we should take it a little bit with the nature that brought a mild winter and a rough sea. It is in fact estimated that about 800,000 people are ready to embark to enter the soft belly of this Europe. Illegal immigration is a real, serious, profound and dramatic problem, which is certainly not dealt with in the good living rooms, reasoning with our radical chic friends, with cheap philosophy, with goodness, much less hiding the numbers of this immense invasion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We continue to blame this enormous immigration on wars. But in those places wars have been there for forty-fifty years and no one, if not in the last ten years, had ever dreamed of coming to Italy, especially, among other things, when work was there and there was for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this emergency, which is already causing a humanitarian and social disaster, all the useless words and the big talk about Europe and its competences, and especially its shortcomings, are at risk of sinking like the boats of these unfortunate people. Senator Centinario said well before: let's help them at home, let's help there, let's stop them there. In the face of all this, precise actions of the Government are needed to deal with reality, to confront each day with the problem, and to stop talking about alarmism on our part, on the part of the League Group. Madam President, if it serves to avert the worst, if it serves to act, if it serves to counter that latent goodness which has unfortunately been accompanying us for a long time. We had raised the threat of disease that we had long eradicated: it is reported in the newspapers of these days. As for the TB, eight or ten soldiers (it has not been understood well how many) are positive, but the serious problem is another, Madam President: how many of those people have escaped from reception centres have potentially contracted this disease and are not subject to controls? Let us not complain if then the European Union does not help us, and does not help us at all, to manage the emergency by refusing also to welcome some of the illegals. Let us not complain, Madam President, because some of our European partners launched the war in Libya precisely to strike our interests. Why should they protect them now? Then we read that the mayor of Rome, Marino, detects too many arrivals in the city by launching a health alert (TBC and HIV). The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health are also complaining because these people arrive without notice. But that is absolutely not true: you go looking for them with radar, they are brought here and everything else. The notice's on, of course. Mare nostrum. I understand why it's called this: because we have borders that are cut with a breadstick! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u40	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, despite the complexity of the scenario described and the numerous repercussions on other directly and indirectly related sectors. Given that I share many of the concerns and reflections expressed today by my fellow Members, I would like to broaden the view from which to start by trying to solve or at least limit the problem we are discussing. Operation Mare nostrum has unmistakable critical profiles. The long-term economic and social sustainability and, above all, the effective effectiveness of the operation as a deterrent leave ample room for doubt and scepticism. The reality that characterizes the dynamics of the migratory flows of our region is very complex and does not lend itself to easy solutions. The one before our eyes is a scenario that has failed numerous half strategies, which were limited to buffering the effects, without trying to address the causes that make the phenomenon increasingly unmanageable. For example, the objectives and functioning of the Frontex agency should be expanded and redesigned in the light of new regional challenges. Frontex should be at the forefront both in the patrolling of Mediterranean waters and in relation to a real rapid response operation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. As a member of the Italian delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, since the beginning of the year I have worked on a motion for a resolution, supported by the Italian delegation and signed by numerous Members of Parliament from different countries, which will be formally discussed at the end of the month. That's what Senator Comrade was talking about, which I thank for. The resolution is an appeal for a general reform of immigration policies at European and OSCE level. Without a serious overall reform on immigration, it will be impossible to achieve strategic objectives in terms of security, social and economic cohesion. In my opinion, international actors such as the OSCE and the European Union cannot ignore the humanitarian consequences of the crises in the Mediterranean and must be able to provide adequate answers. In line with the European Commission's comments, it is necessary to integrate immediate measures with long-term programmes and initiatives aimed at addressing at the root the issues of irregular migration, in close cooperation with third countries and in particular with countries of origin and transit. Another problem concerns the legal dimension of the phenomenon and, as far as the European Union is concerned, we can no longer expect a serious reform of the whole Dublin system, and in particular of EU Regulation No 604/2013 of 26 June 2013. The innovations of this Regulation are marginal compared to Regulation No 343/2003, known as Dublin II: in particular, the guarantees referred to in Article 33 are not yet sufficient and do not represent a long-term solution. First of all, we must change the reality that those who receive international protection are almost always stuck in the country of first asylum. Among the requests made in the resolution I would like to mention: the request to the States participating in the OSCE to call for a general reform of immigration policy at national and European level; in particular, the request to the participating States, who are also members of the European Union, to ensure joint management of the immigration problem and greater funding to the Member States to cope with the pressure of mass entry of asylum seekers. I am aware that bodies like the OSCE have limited power, but they are privileged places to build valuable synergies that cross national borders and, in this case, to internationalise the problem of immigration. We should all work on the causes and not confine ourselves to a battle on the effects, which can only give partial results. I should like to end by saying that the Italian Government, during the Presidency of the European Union, has a great opportunity and a great responsibility ahead of it. Time will run fast and the issues to be addressed will be multiple, interconnected, complex and forerunners of heated debates. The Italian Government has the opportunity to fight for a radical reform of the subject at European level and, at the same time, the responsibility not to stop in the face of the obstacles that will inevitably arise. I hope that this legitimate expectation will not be disappointed for the good of Italian and European citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u42	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u43	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Delrio for his presence in this House, which compensates for the absence of someone else. Ladies and gentlemen, our country and my Sicily are experiencing an emergency without a moment's rest. Last weekend about 8,000 arrivals, almost 60,000 since the beginning of the year; frightening numbers that would require immediate answers from a government that, however, continues to speak in the wind. "A inhuman drama" has defined it in recent days the mayor of Porto Empedocle, in the Province of Agrigento (city of the Minister of the Interior). We are radically out of control in an inhumane drama. Chat is wasted, the credibility of the European institutions and governments is shaky. That's what that mayor said. How can this enlightened mayor be wronged, even though he has probably not read the Government's programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union, with reference to the much praised Italian Presidency? Report within which - Undersecretary Delrio - reads: The EU Member States must define and adopt a common European maritime safety strategy "by June 2014," while by the end of 2014, action plans to implement the common defence strategy should be drawn up and implemented................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, action plans to be drawn up at the end of 2014. A timing that is ill-conciliated with the daily emergency. A strategy that does not take into account the immanence and drama of the problem, destined to become even more acute with the summer season. A strategy that denotes the pre-pochism and superficiality of this Government composed of many professionals of blah, blah, blah, with an interior minister who continues to bark at the moon, and would already be a compliment to his high and exclusive commitment to speech. A government that, while working on the annulment of the crime of illegal immigration, unique case in the world, confirmed the operation Mare nostrum, a noble operation, in line with humanitarian law, but to which was not accompanied by the Letta Government and by this Government a decisive preventive action to dissuade the traffickers of men. Since the launch - it was not difficult to predict - illegal immigrants and refugees have arrived from all over the world and the operation has proved to be a dramatic and very expensive flywheel, which encourages criminal organizations engaged in the trafficking of men. A success, of course, on a humanitarian level, but a failure in terms of prevention, representing, on the other hand, an incentive factor. This irresponsible strategy is the cause of the serious situation that is putting to the test means, men, reception facilities, public order. The Minister for the Interior continues to call for the help of the European Union, he continues to say that the Dublin Regulation penalises Italy, as a country of first entry with the corresponding charges, but omits to say that the regulation itself has signed it. He continues to point out, with his usual verbal suggestions, that Europe must take responsibility for refugees and asylum seekers. But Europe is already taking responsibility for refugees and asylum seekers. It is already happening, again under that Dublin regulation which is being called for to be amended. If this regulation should ever be amended, we invite Minister Alfano, if he is still in office, to read well before signing penal commitments for his country and for his Sicily. The problem is to distinguish between political and illegal asylum seekers, and it is a distinction that should be made on the spot, creating reception centres in Libya by the UN and the European Union, which is what European Commissioner Cecilia Malmström wanted. Thus, in the case of refugees and asylum seekers, they would move to the countries of the European Union, while, in the case of illegal immigrants, return or reception would be carried out in countries that should show such availability. It is true, today most people flee because of the political instability of the countries of origin. However, an instability that the West has aggravated, with the indisputable support for the Arab fake spring and the wicked operation of war in Libya, opposed by President Berlusconi and yet brought to completion for the insistence of the allies, for their little vision, for the foolish obstinacy of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the time, not forgetting the interventionist solicitations of the Head of State. All this has produced today the poisoned fruit of desperate peoples. How do you get out of this? Meanwhile, to demand that the UN and the European Union take charge, as said, to quickly create reception centres in Libya that distinguish between political and illegal refugees; then to conclude bilateral agreements with the countries from which migrants come, as already happened with the Berlusconi Government, as is the case today between Morocco and Spain. In the blackberries, it goes without saying, we must interrupt Mare nostrum, but above all we must move from words to deeds and we must do it quickly because the situation is more serious than we can imagine. Finally - but it has already been reiterated - the military of our Navy, engaged in operation Mare nostrum, would be about ten positive results to the test of tuberculosis. Is there by chance - we ask the Government, the Undersecretary Delrio or to whom for you tomorrow should appear - a health plan to protect the health of citizens, of the Forces of order, of our military, of how many engaged in relief operations? Have initiatives been taken to strengthen controls? Because if it isn't health alarm little we miss. A government that should not realize - as it seems - how serious the situation is is a government destined for a short run. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u44	Madam President, representatives of the Government, the cost of the Mare nostrum operation has been said in this House in our debate. It is a cost that weighs on us, in a situation of such a serious economic crisis and insecurity; yet that is the cost that we must bear to heal the wound, the shame, as the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano called it, on October 3, last year, in the face of the death of those 366 people, in front of the coffins in that flat in Lampedusa. It is the cost of moving from shame to credibility that our country has regained in Europe today thanks to this operation, Mare nostrum, which has saved more than 50,000 lives. So I ask myself and this House what the cost of a human life is, how much the images of those bodies at the bottom of our sea cost us. We must decide on this today. The same expression "Mare nostrum" then says everything: it is the evocative force of a name, the Mediterranean Sea, the sea where Western civilization was born; it is the symbol of the right to be citizens, to carry out their own project of life. When we talk about those who did not make it and remained at the bottom of the Mare nostrum, we talk about those who, fleeing Libya, Syria, Eritrea and Somalia, are largely non-clandestine. But we know that when he can arrive in Europe, he is an asylum seeker, and we are obliged to give asylum, because this is what our Constitution imposes on us, the rules of our Europe impose on us. This is what we are called upon to decide today, which questions, of course, our consciences but, above all, questions our political responsibility. We must give answers here, not demagogy; we must give solutions and not profit from fear. So, you know, there's the enormity of what's behind us in this story. There is a site called "Fortress Europe" that calculates how many dead are in our Mediterranean since 1988: they are 19.720. It is what Pope Francis also called him, on the first trip he wanted to make precisely in Lampedusa, the globalization of indifference, calling us to stand on the side of the humble and the peripheries. This, in my opinion, means Mare nostrum, and if we had to intervene with Mare nostrum - I say this forcefully to the colleagues of the League, above all, who have spoken here - it is because we have had long policies that have been wrong and bankrupt: policies that have tightened up and tightened up the attitude towards immigration, having as a sole result that of widening the areas of irregularities, marginality, with the failure of the shameful policy of rejections, of the crime of illegality, which in reality reduced from 2002 to 2009 the returns that there have been from Italy, as well as guaranteeing us then infringement procedures in Europe and interventions of the European Court of Human Rights. That is, in fact, we Italians today have to claim to Europe, for the credibility we have regained thanks to this operation, that there is finally, decisively, a European policy: a policy primarily for the Mediterranean, and therefore a European policy for immigration. We must demand and demand an international conference on Libya, intervene at last with international cooperation that can heal those wars, those conflicts, those persecutions from which in so many, even in these hours, thousands run away. Direct and effective action is needed in Africa and the Middle East, in support of those local economies (only in this way will be less and less left), in support of those processes of democratization in order to fight extremism and famine. The European Union has the task of being there: it cannot exist only when it claims to all countries, even the weakest ones, the fiscal constraints, the budgetary constraints and then to the weakest countries the solidarity of our Continent. We call on the European Union to do so today because we want the Mare nostrum operation to change its mark; not that it is cancelled, not that it is reduced, but rather that it is enlarged, that it starts a new phase, that it becomes a European instrument for all intents and purposes. We also have the opportunity for the hope and hope that the Italian Presidency of the semester will carry with it. First of all, I would like to say - as has been said - that the Dublin III regulation is being revised. In the Council of Europe, in the Immigration Commission, a few days ago the Italian delegation achieved an important result: the acceptance of the request for revision that will allow asylum seekers to go where they ask, and not only to station themselves in the countries of first landing and first reception. And then, the struggle without neighborhood, which is inscribed within Mare nostrum: not only the salvation of lives, but the struggle without neighborhood to the scafists, to the traffickers. A few days ago, Minister Orlando obtained that the United Nations Commission for the Prevention of Crime and Criminal Justice should carry out a resolution that tightens up and calls for international cooperation against the trafficking of boatmen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u45	I invite you to conclude, Senator Verducci.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u46	Mr Verducci (PD). I conclude by saying that today we ultimately decide on the fate of thousands of people, but also on the fate of our civilization, of our Europe. We will do this by being close, with the hope that they transmit us, to the many mayors who claim the state of emergency and to whom we must respond, but above all to the many citizens who in these hours, not only in Sicily (especially in Sicily, but also in Puglia and Calabria) are looking for basic necessities for the many who have landed without anything. I think this is due to us today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u47	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u48	Madam President, in 2013 there were 43,000 landings, in 2014 we are already 50,000, a much greater figure than in 2013. The hullists arrested are 150, 300,000 euros a day the money spent on operation Mare nostrum. The use of a frigate Maestrale class costs 60,000 euros per day, the ship San Marco 45,000 euros; the helicopters AB 212 cost 4,000 euros per hour of flight, the EH101 from 7,000 to 13,000 euros. Total: about €10 million - or even more - per month. Food and accommodation costs 30 euros, excluding VAT, to which you add a pocket money of 2.5 euros per day, card with phone charge of 15 euros, assistance and health care and 11 identification and expulsion centers (six closed in 2013). Italy, with 2,125,490 visas, turns out to be the second country in the Schengen area by number of visas... and we are talking this evening about an absolute emergency and we don't even have the Minister! With all due respect for the Undersecretary who represents the Government here, in the face of such a situation we had to have, and we have the claim to have, here the Minister. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gibiino.]] So, dear Minister Alfano, remember your function, remember that here we are faced with numbers that report what is happening. All the operations that have been carried out so far are not only a failure, but have translated, pardoned the expression, into an incentive, almost a help to determine this real humanitarian disaster. We now find ourselves with our coasts practically invaded by a population that we understand very well to be in a situation of serious difficulty, but with this project, which was then enriched by other fine interventions, in our opinion nothing has been done but aggravated an already serious situation. Let us remember the whole issue that had arisen on the ius soli, the nefarious and inauspicious statements of Minister Kyenge regarding the right to citizenship. Then there was the repeal of the crime of illegal immigration, another very serious step that has practically made Italy weak in the borders, weak in addressing this problem, which remains and will remain serious until the real and now absolutely necessary solutions are prepared to succeed in coming out of this situation. Here, however, the problem has been addressed in Italian, as always, but we must tell the Minister, the Government, all of you of the majority that courage is needed to deal with these situations as well. We are not just talking about money, although, as previous speakers have mentioned, there have been huge disbursements, a huge economic burden for the country: and we are not talking about Germany, but about Italy, with its accounts, with the problem of the coverage of 80 euros per month in paychecks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the other hand, we are here to predict and prepare a very expensive system, which is very expensive for a state budget that is already in difficulty.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u49	Senator Stefani, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u50	STEFANI (LN-Aut). However, we are also talking about a cost in terms of human lives. We must understand that courageous decisions must be taken, which also means understanding that we probably save these people by closing this project. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] If, on the other hand, we continue to encourage them to come to our territory, we will find people scattered, in vain, with many health problems. Let me just say one thing: the Group of the North Legacy has tabled a question on this very subject, in particular with regard to the police forces that come into contact with these poor people who unfortunately have not even been controlled. We are faced with a humanitarian and health emergency that must be addressed; therefore, Alfano courage, make its decisions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u52	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the military and humanitarian operation in the southern Mediterranean Sea called Mare nostrum began in October 2013 to face the exponential growth of migratory flows in the canals of Sicily, during which dramatic tragedies took place, with the loss of numerous human lives. Unfortunately, as expected, the situation still presents critical and emergency features. In fact, the trail of death in that part of the sea does not stop, a dramatic situation that cannot and must not leave the European Union indifferent. We reiterate, in our motion, that Italy cannot be left alone to manage these events. Just these days the UN, through its spokesman, has recognized that the issue of immigrants in the Mediterranean is not a problem that our country can face without external support. We are forced to bear too much weight, but Italy is nothing more than a point of entry from North Africa and the Middle East for these migrants, who often land on our coasts in the hope of reuniting with their families in other countries of Europe. The impossibility for many of them to move freely to other States of the European Union, where relatives have already been integrated and established for a long time, has meant that many potential beneficiaries of international protection refuse to carry out the recognition procedures once they have arrived in Italy, in the hope of being able to reach their relatives in the countries of Northern Europe, even clandestinely. In the light of these facts, the only Italian response to this situation is completely inadequate. An international response is therefore needed. About seven months have passed since the tragic affair of Lampedusa, which caused the death of 366 migrants, and the landings on the Italian coast still have no respite. Since the beginning of the year there have been about 52,000 arrivals. Sicilian quaestures and prefectures are at the limit of collapse because, by now, the story seems to have no longer the connotations of an emergency, but rather of a structural situation. I would also like to recall and praise the daily work done by our rescuers, who are not spared, using all their energies, but now tried and too often helpless in relation to the permanent emergency. Here I want to take up what I have heard in a testimony, launched by Radio Radicale, of a military, operating in the field of health, on the issue of tuberculosis. This testimony denies what the Chief of Staff said yesterday. Some naval units, in order to intervene in the humanitarian and rescue emergency, left without concluding vaccination prophylaxis. The naval units have not obtained the delegation to the vaccination of the reference vaccination centers. This has been regulated by a circular from the Navy Health Inspectorate. I would like to stress here that, as has already been done on other occasions, it is necessary to ask the Government to pay more attention, especially to these issues, when it comes to prophylaxis, and to take care of its own military. Therefore, Member States should show solidarity and act in order to reduce the risk of such dramas occurring again. The time has come to translate words into acts. The European Union has no other option but to address this critical issue with dignity and justice, and to try to provide concrete and decisive answers. International agreements need to be strengthened more and, at the same time, the peace initiative must be made real and operational for those countries devastated by ceaseless wars. It would also be appropriate to create safe humanitarian channels that allow these people to move safely and at the same time remove them from the exploitation of traffickers. With the imminent launch of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, the Italian Government will have a great opportunity to address the problem of migration flows and to place an international emphasis on the issue so that the management of the hundreds of thousands of people fleeing poverty and war does not remain our exclusive competence. It is necessary to combat this battle for the good of Italy and Europe, which, to date, has not objectively developed a common political vision and a project for the defence of borders that includes the reception of asylum seekers to the height of a world power. It is the responsibility of the European Union to deal diplomatically with these events of international policy that are the root of migration flows, to try to conclude more effective agreements with the countries of origin of refugees, in particular by taking all necessary measures to prepare a common strategy for the defence of maritime borders, for aid in international waters and for the reception of asylum seekers in all Member States. It is essential, as requested in our commitments, to coordinate Frontex, Eurosur and Mare nostrum, also in order to avoid duplication of functions and dysfunctions in operations and data collection. Finally, from a programme point of view, it is absolutely necessary to amend the criteria set out in the Dublin III Regulation in order to facilitate the extension of the possibilities of reunion with the family members of applicants for international protection. The above-mentioned regulation, which was created to counter the phenomenon of the submission of the request for protection in several countries (so-called "asylum shopping"), at the present time, however, seems totally inadequate to manage migratory flows. The main problem with these provisions is to prevent the necessary European solidarity in the management of applications for protection and to encourage collective escape from the centres of first reception and, therefore, the illegalisation of migrants. In fact, migratory flows have undergone a radical change over the years. They are increasingly connected to the political instability of countries marred by atrocious and devastating wars and only in a residual way have emergent justifications or of a mere economic character. We therefore hope, and I conclude, that the Government will take every useful initiative in the appropriate European fora to turn Mare nostrum into a mission of the European Union, in order to manage in the best possible way such a serious and dramatic crisis. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and the Senators Serra and Vattuone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u53	He is registered to speak Senator Mario Mauro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u54	Madam President, the point of my speech is to provide the House with some useful elements and, I hope, also to the Government for the development of a credible strategy of what we can do towards the European Union and the international community in order to achieve significant results in relation to the epochal problem that has been dealt with pro tempore by the Mare nostrum mission. I say this because much has been spent, even in the debate, to highlight the humanitarian nature of the Mare nostrum mission and very little has been said about what concerns the dimension of security and what today objectively represents a limit, because that security dimension is not perfectly accomplished. I want to clarify in this respect some passages which I believe can be illuminating in order to achieve concrete results. What can we ask the European Union? Of course, we can put questions of principle. In fact, it is serious and very curious that, many years after the construction of Europe, if progress has been made with regard to the de facto dismantling of the internal borders of the Member States, when we talk about the external borders, they return desolately under national competence. It is clear, however, that, even in the places of merit, to point out that it is possible to achieve this goal, it has long or at least medium-long times. What can be pursued in the short term, given that if we fight on the reception of refugees and asylum seekers, and even simply on the consideration of those who are in the state of illegal migrants, we will not succeed in achieving adequate results in the short term? The truth is that the only path we can take is linked to what has led to the European Union's implementation of major anti-terrorism operations, such as Operation Atalanta, an operation that has allowed member countries to spend themselves to stem an equally epochal and serious phenomenon such as piracy against goods and goods from member countries of the European Union. What do we need to be able to beat this key? The truth is that since the beginning of the first operations of Mare nostrum it has become evident an impregnable fact, that is that to benefit from those traffics are not only criminal organizations, but also terrorist organizations. This is in the reports of the Algerian secret services, in the documented reports of many journalistic investigations, carried out also by Italian journalists, in the reports of our intelligence and in the initiatives of our judiciary, such as those desired by the Attorney General of Catania. When the Navy ships, applying the Montego Bay Convention, stormed - because this too did Mare nostrum - ships in the center of the Mediterranean, initially drawing 16 Egyptian members of that ship under arrest, what did that operation prove? That TB in that case had contracted it not our military but those 16 Egyptians. And where did they contract it? The DNA genotypes show that they were able to contract it in only two places in the world: the Naziristan and the South of Afghanistan. What else do we need to understand that terrorists also benefit and benefit from what organised crime does about human trafficking? What else do we need to realize that many, the difference in the number of those who made use of this passage into the sea, come from the coasts of Egypt and not Libya? They boarded in Alexandria, Egypt, on large ships for more than a thousand people, not on small ships. We must understand that there is a security dimension in Mare nostrum and understand that this security dimension is the only platform on which we can realistically ask the European Union to intervene, because it is obliged, as in the case of Atlanta, to intervene if we talk about terrorism. In fact, on this issue there is not the number of refugees we have taken, contending with Germany and other countries who should do more, but there is a simple and sacrosanct principle: if there is terrorism in the middle we intervene military manu applying the Montego Bay Convention it follows that other European countries must intervene. This road has already been beaten by the previous government. I recall the letter also addressed by Minister Bonino in a particular forum calling into question the representative of the European Union, Ashton, to resolve this particular problem. I hope that the government will continue and insist on this, because it clearly has immediate effects. Immediately, when the European Union is declared that there is an interest on the part of terrorist groups in achieving support for these trafficking, it must provide for the intervention of the military navy. This must not make us forget the humanitarian implications. We moved because 328 people in one night have people life and many more before them. Can we also say that, since that operation began, this death toll has been objectively found to be contrary? We can and must say this, not only in order to boast a numerical result, but also in order to express a warning and, having to assume responsibility for the vision and conduct of the European Union for six months, to ensure that this becomes the concrete basis for a negotiation which, on the basis of the observations I have just made, can be peculiar and qualifying. I would also like to give further clarification. I hear a lot about Mare nostrum's expenses. That's right, that's 10 million a month. I would like us to remember that much of this amount would still be spent on the needs of the Navy, because it is the amounts devoted to the exercise of the Navy itself. Mare nostrum has simply moved the ships that from the high Adriatic to the high Tyrrhenian we had around this part of the Mediterranean to do exercises, to which is added the more that was given to the troops that were used for those exercises, putting them in the center of the Mediterranean. Therefore, the real delta is not 10 million, but one and a half million of specificity dedicated to this operation. All the other money would have to spend anyway, because who thinks to keep a ship in port for ten months making it rust? Who thinks to keep soldiers in port for ten months by making them rust from the point of view of operation? It is right therefore to point out that we need the help of many; but it is also good to do this not with logic of deployment, but wanting to serve the common purpose, of which the Government must interpret, to contribute to solving a problem, having at the same time clear that the solution of the problem is entrusted to a figure of civilization that this type of intervention has guaranteed to our Country [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Gotor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u55	I would like to greet the representation of the Italian Federation of Pediatric Doctors of Catania present in the forums. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u56	Madam President, my speech will be very brief, which goes beyond the purely political considerations that have been made so far. In fact, I want to draw attention to another aspect related to these events, human and cultural, of which we must never forget when we approach these kinds of issues. The tragedy of the landings, which we see every day and which are not only of interest to the Mediterranean Sea (for example, also to the Canary Islands), reminds us of a past of which we still remember, a memory which, however, is not properly preserved, nor properly transmitted to the younger generations. This lack of transmission and this neglect make sure that then in our country - and not only - all those phenomena linked to the migratory dynamics, which have often been used ideologically, for good and evil, during the debates that around these issues have ignited at least in the last twenty years, if not more now. I remember that in Italy these themes are of more recent memory, younger, while there are other countries of the European Union that have known and have had to face these problems and these dynamics already many years ago, after the independence of those who were the colonies, the settlers and who, for centuries, have fed the economies of empires that had their center right here in Europe. These colonial dynamics, among other things, have not ended, but have simply become dynamics of neocolonialism, which have generated a whole series of political and social events in the countries in which today we live in eternal conflict. Of these events we cannot fail to feel - also in the broad sense, because we live in the modern era and at that time we were not there, but there were our fathers and fathers of our fathers - at least responsible, because much of our well-being has been built over the centuries precisely in those lands, and still today much of the resources used to generate our wealth come from those lands. We must therefore recover this history and also remind ourselves of the fact that many of these people live in their own countries of origin. It is normal for us to have a passport or identity card and to be able to move anywhere in the world: most of these people, on the other hand, are prisoners. Before, Senator Mario Mauro recalled the Montego Bay Convention: not being my subject matter, I imagine he referred to the Jamaican Montego Bay, but, even if it is not so, I want to remember the case of Jamaica, a country far from us, but at the same time very close to us because of the historical dynamics that have affected him and that are still affecting us today. A Jamaican citizen cannot leave his country freely: to come to Italy, for example, he must have a letter of invitation and must give economic guarantees. For us, freedom of movement is granted, not for many other people. Probably those who manage to raise the resources to be able to cross (remolar is a euphemism, because it is a matter of large economic resources) with much less money could buy an air ticket and go directly to the places of destination, because we know very well that today the countries of the South of Europe have become mostly of transit to other destinations, especially of the North of Europe. That is why I would like, whenever we discuss these issues, to hear also the desire to approach the problems at the origin, through all the diplomatic activities necessary, to ensure that in these same countries we arrive at a democracy truly implemented and exercised and that we can give these people the opportunity to move freely. In so doing, perhaps, the phenomenon of clandestine crossings can also be curbed. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Orellana and Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u57	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u58	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank, and I sincerely do so, the Under-Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Delrio, for the attention, competence, capacity and patience with which he has witnessed this debate which is absolutely fundamental to us; when I say that I mean not only our political movement, but the whole of our country. I would also like to thank the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who, with equal competence and patience, has represented those who should have been here, for their mandate and institutional obligation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I am talking about the Minister of the Interior Angelino Alfano, who today is missing very much precisely because this mission, this operation, the most part of the inconveniences that come from this, are of his direct competence and responsibility. Colleagues, solidarity, the true one, which has at heart the good of the refugees and Italians who, generously, every day in Sicily, Calabria and Sardinia, do their utmost to save the life of those who face the journeys of death, that solidarity, which is for us the only conceivable, simply does not exist in the absence of an activity of government of the territory. If there is no government, there is no solidarity, and we are here today still discussing an ungoverned, out-of-control situation; more than that, a predictable catastrophe. That's what the mayors of the areas that constantly suffer these landings say. A situation that is the result of improvisation and irresponsibility. I am sorry that Senator Mauro has gone away, because I would like to stress this aspect: we have skilfully sent our ships and our military away in an illusory attempt to stem an invasion, in fact I'm gonna take care of her. With all the inevitable corollary of tragedies and death, of which, colleagues, we cannot be hypocritically surprised. Our motion is dated May 6th. The figures of then spoke of 25,000 migrants by sea arrived in Italy since January. In just over a month, the number exceeded 50,000, more than doubled. The reception structures, already then at the collapse by admission of the same leaders or because insufficient, destroyed or inadequate, today are in a condition that is scandalous for a civil country. If the hypothesis emerged yesterday in the meeting of the Minister of the Interior Alfano, that here we would have longed to have and with which we would have liked to be able to compare, with the president of the Italian Municipalities, Fassino (he, yes, fortunately met him), and with the Sicilian mayors, it is to bring from 9,000 to 20,000 the places provided by the system of protection SPRAR for refugees and refugees, we immediately tell you that we do not stand. The forecast, if we maintain the current rhythms, is that this summer the landings exceed 100,000 units. The Minister of Defence himself admitted yesterday very clearly that the Navy is now exhausted and no longer holds the weight of this invasion, favored precisely by the advancement of the line of sighting and rescue, which is the fulcrum of the operation. Sicilian mayors report an out-of-control situation. The High Commissioner for Refugees expressed dismay at 400 people mainly from Syria, Somalia and sub-Saharan Africa who were loaded on the buses and abandoned in the car parks of Rome Anagnina and Milan Rogoredo. Landings in Sardinia, in Chia, with boats from which migrants throw themselves into the water once sighted and then lose their tracks. Our sailors, who are acting, as always, in a wonderful way, with the usual professionalism and generosity, are exposed to an increasing health risk, if it is true, as Senator Mauro also mentioned, it is a news of yesterday, that eight of them were found positive to the test of tuberculosis. And, unfortunately, we are not just talking about tuberculosis. We are living again in our country, diseases and diseases now forgotten by lustres. We're talking about lue, polio, scabies. The dead at sea are no longer counted. Until last year Fortress Europe had counted 6,200 drowned only in the Sicily Canal - humanitarian mission - and more than half (4,790) are still missing. This 2014, despite the fact that Mare nostrum was presented as a human life-saving operation, is likely to record a higher actual budget, due to the increase in crossings, also compared to the 2011 annus horribilis, that of the evil Arab springs, unfortunately so damned by a certain political part. We are not talking about the costs of the Renzi Government's inability to impose immigration on the European Union as a priority for the whole continent, as it is: and I am referring specifically to the European Union of which it is unnecessarily (in this respect it is clear) to take over the Presidency for six months. The Mare nostrum mission itself already costs EUR 9 million per month, as a minimum estimate: Senator Mauro tells us that we would have spent it anyway, but in the meantime we pay them. Until a couple of months ago, the cost of the reception for the Italian State, when migrants landed on the ground, was estimated at 200 million per year. Yesterday, in the estimates of the mayor of Catania, White, they have already become 300. For every immigrant the State spends an average of 55 euros per day; the centers of identification and expulsion are those of Bari, Caltanissetta, Rome, Turin and Trapani-Milo, but they are already a second line... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Bernini. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President, for just a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He's already over it. We're a minute and a half past the time allocated to him. Please finish. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). The message that Italy sends to Africa with Mare nostrum is that whoever arrives will be rescued and welcomed and that hope will be crowned by the dream. The reality is another: the mafia of human traffickers is, in fact, the first beneficiary of the generosity of the Italian Government. It is nice that the migrants rescued thankfully applauding the sailors of the frigates on the docks of the Sicilian ports, but it is not nice that those same migrants (among whom it is often impossible to discern the refugees from the illegals, if not from the criminals) are lured by Mare nostrum in a circuit that is in itself criminal, potentially explosive for our communities and for the migrants themselves. Madam President, these are data, facts and dramas that we also have on our conscience and our goodness does not mean that we should forget them, if it was our wrong messages that encouraged them to set sail. Also for this Mare nostrum must be interrupted and the Government finally learns to govern without more alibi, for the good of migrants and for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u59	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u60	Madam President, I seem to recall that Pakistan had to suffer the invasion, as it were, of about 1.2 million people from Afghanistan because of a war: perhaps we should be more aware of the phenomenon we are talking about, that it is not one of those who lend themselves to being arrested with their hands, because when people run away from war, torture and persecution they do not stop easily. The problem must therefore be tackled, and not simply denied. It seems that many in this House have not understood that the migration phenomenon has changed greatly: when people came here for work, we welcomed it well, because we needed those who covered certain jobs for which there was a shortage of labour. We have thought and tried and we have also partially managed to regulate flows through the decrees flows, but today's phenomenon is not converted, it is not regulated by the same means: it cannot be done, because there is too much despair, and therefore, first of all, beyond the humanitarian reasons that should push us to have a different attitude, there is a principle of reality that should guide our considerations. The people who come to Italy because they are fleeing countries in war, from torture and persecution are not illegal: I have heard it said eight times in this House, this statement sucks! They are not illegal, because it is our law - in addition to the international conventions we have signed - that gives us the obligation, the duty and, I hope, the conviction to host these people, who have the right to do so. And this has nothing to do with illegality: let's try to use the right language. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] To stop with a crime of illegality a person who is entitled to come here according to our laws is, first of all, nonsense. However, this does not mean - and the debate has taken full account of this - that there is no problem: it is obvious that there is a problem, and it cannot be solved only with a good heart. It is right to have an attitude of welcome, but the problem must of course be tackled, not only in the sense of preventing it, insofar as it is possible, but also to follow up the operation that we have put in place worthwhile, that is, Mare nostrum, that cannot stop at the landing in Italy. These commitments therefore concern the international community, and above all Europe, but also our nation. Two aspects I would like to stress in this respect, because a great deal has been said: international cooperation has been rightly mentioned, which, I would like to remind you - particularly the Senators of the League - must not and cannot be the famous migration conditionality, with which, in exchange for economic aid and the possibility of legal entry, countries such as Libya were asked to do the dirty work, i.e. to expel, reject and, above all, imprison, torture and rape people who escaped from situations of serious difficulties in their countries. This is not the international cooperation I would like to review. But it is not enough to think of fundamental actions, specifically aimed at dismantling the networks of traffickers and organising mobility in safety. You have to have a high thought. I believe that our Government will devote a serious thought to this in the European Semester: to setting European policies which are policies, political activities aimed at achieving and building economic relations with the Mediterranean countries. This, from the perspective of what may be the future and the frontier of these phenomena, that is the famous circular immigration: the idea that people turn, go to more advanced countries, learn, return to their countries establish fruitful relations of exchange for both. We also have virtuous examples in our country, and I think that on this path we must continue to go. Someone, unfortunately more than one, said that we should suspend Mare nostrum. In the face of a tragedy and people dying at sea, the answer is obviously not to suspend Mare nostrum. It must be set in a different way, and I believe that the alarm that has been launched, especially by the Sicilian parliamentarians, must be grasped with force. What we need to do is to be aware that we need to discuss with Europe how the refugees arriving in Europe are being shared. But beware that we are not in a very strong position, because we are not the first country to welcome refugees: Germany has at least ten times our own, France five times, the United Kingdom more than twice, Sweden and Holland have more than us. So, it's not like we've already done our part. And we're not doing our part very well, because we're not equipped yet. I repeat, it is not enough to land: we must also have internal governance on reception. There is the emergency of the landing, but there is the reception and there are also integration policies, which require above all attention to integration aimed at work. On this, various things have been done (experiments, first projects, also with European funding, because Europe is not the mother of all vices) and we must move forward. The last minute of my time, I would like to devote it to a problem that is very close to my heart, that of unaccompanied foreign minors. Surely there is a very strong evolution: this year 2,400 foreign minors have landed, which are a huge figure, if we think that, overall, those present in Italy in our structures are 7,182. There is indeed a surge, and above all it is more and more of smaller foreigners: by now there are at least 800 who are fifteen years old or younger, while before they were almost all sixteen years old and seventeen years old. These youngsters are mostly in Sicily, in very precarious reception situations. Our legislation must be changed, because it still entrusts to the municipality where they are tracked the obligation to take charge of it. This is not a system that can go on. There is a need for regulation and a strengthening of economic support, because if it is true that there is EUR 33 for asylum seekers, it is not equally true that there is EUR 33 per day for minors, but this burden falls, I repeat, on the shoulders of the municipalities. It is a subject that needs to be addressed through regulatory measures accompanied by adequate financial resources. It is therefore necessary to work towards Europe, but also to roll up the sleeves in our home to go beyond Mare nostrum and do even more. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u61	The debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, the Government's reply is postponed until tomorrow morning's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u64	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to talk about work, a rather hot and important subject, especially youth work. We have seen that unemployment in Italy is still rising: it is at 46 percent. There is a government that comes to tell us, as one of the previous governments, about fairy tales. The government of that time was talking about full restaurants and overflowing planes. But unemployment has risen again. I refer to a case, that of GSE SpA (Energy Services Manager), an Italian public limited company controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which provides economic incentives for the production of electricity from renewable sources. This is, therefore, our future. In addition, it carries out information activities to promote the culture of compatible and sustainable energy use. Well, it turns out that the GSE would be applying the cuts provided for in Decree-Law No 66 of 2014. For those who do not remember the numbers well - and I may remind myself first - it is the decree of the 80 euros: on the one hand, you give the 80 euros; on the other hand, you have to remove something. In this case you are going to take it off - do you want to understand that? - work to young people, because we have found that 63 young people hired in the Roman headquarters, all under 30, at the end of the contracts of insertion with which they were hired, risk the lack of renewal of the same. I want to ask: where do we want to go? If, on the one hand, we have a company that is ours, the Ministry, that is doing a business that for us... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, please conclude. PUGLIA (M5S). I'm done, ma'am. If we have a company that is strategic and is forming those young people, once they are trained, what do we want to do about them? Is it strategic or not? It is strategic, and then of these young people, once trained, what do we want to do? Do we want to throw them on the street, to give the 80 euros maybe to those who already have money, or do we want these young people, once they are in strategic activities such as renewables, to renew contracts? For us, young people under 30 must be protected and renewable energy is the future of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u67	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point of particular concern regarding the situation of Group 6 GDO Srl. It is a company in my region and in particular in my Province, Trapani, whose property had been confiscated and transferred to the National Agency of Confiscated Goods and for which, in recent months, I had submitted an urgent question to the Minister of the Interior, whose reply I had repeatedly requested in this House. Of the case I had also interested the Ministry of Labour that, in last April, had prepared the measure of approval and concession of the CIGS, Cassa Integrazione earnings extraordinary, for the workers of the group. Today the news arrives that the judge of the court of Marsala has declared failed the group, considering unacceptable the agreement proposed by the National Agency of goods confiscated to organized crime, that it previewed the cession of the branch of company, relative to the points of sale of the Group 6 GDO, to a society. The agreement would have allowed the relocation of almost all the 400 employees of the points of sale, directly and indirectly linked, to the Castelvetranese company of the large distribution with the immediate start of the activity. By fully sharing the great concern of the workers involved and of the trade unions, without of course entering into the substance of the judgment issued by the judge of the court of Marsala, I would like to hope that alternative ways can be found following the declaration of bankruptcy of Group 6 GDO and that the conditions still exist for the group to become the example of a company confiscated and relocated to the market. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior once again to reply to my question No 4-01685, which asked - precisely in the logic of avoiding situations such as the one created today - what urgent actions the Minister for the Interior intends to put in place in time to protect all those workers who, operating in companies and branches of companies and companies whose property is under confiscation regime, risk losing their jobs, and, in this case, what measures he intends to take for the workers of Group 6 GDO Srl based in Castelvetrano. Madam President, we cannot allow the message to pass that a company with workers will be closed down by bankruptcy and that it will lose its jobs when, away from the mafia, it passes through the confiscated assets managed by the agency in charge. [[Applause from Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-260.ana.u69	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
