ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first will be the questioning 2-00127 on the integrated system of social interventions and services. I call Senator Candiani to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u4	Mr President, Minister, the questioning, which I presented with my colleague Mr Volpi, aims to know the Government's intentions regarding the cuts introduced in Decree-Law No 4 of 2014 in respect of funds earmarked for the social sphere. These funds are particularly important, not so much in the figure as in the destination. The planned reductions amounted to EUR 21.5 million for 2014, EUR 6.4 million for 2015 and EUR 5.4 million for 2016. These figures can mean a lot, especially for local administrations and final recipients, given that they are disability or in any case problems related to the social status of people. We therefore call for the understanding of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy both of the desire to restore or give continuity to the rights that citizens will want to see respected, as previously mentioned in the decree-law, and of the innovative regulatory framework introduced by the decree itself, which would otherwise create unequal treatment among citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u5	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u6	Mr President, Senator Volpi and Senator Candiani, who has just described the questioning, in this Parliamentary act draw the attention of the Government to the resources allocated to the National Fund for Social Policies, which - following the continuing unfavourable economic situation and the constraints of public finance - have been considerably reduced in recent years. I would first like to point out that until 2009 a significant part of the National Social Policy Fund was allocated to the INPS for the financing of interventions constituting subjective rights, such as, for example, the facilities for parents of persons with serious disabilities (referred to in Article 33 of Law No 104 of 1992), family allowances (referred to in Article 65 of Law No 448 of 1998), maternity allowances (referred to in Article 66 of Law No 448 of 1998). The remaining resources were allocated to the Autonomous Regions and Provinces as well as to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Instead, as of 2010, the National Social Policy Fund is distributed - on the one hand - between the Regions and Autonomous Provinces for the financing of the integrated system of territorial social services and - on the other hand - the Ministry I represent for social interventions. With specific reference to what has been requested by the honourable Member, I would like to point out that the provisions made with Article 2, paragraph 1, letter c), of Decree-Law No 4 of 2014 should not be read in contrast to the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 525, of the law of stability for 2014, as this last provision is without prejudice to the funds intended for social policies with exclusive reference to the cuts made to regional resources pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 522, of the same law of stability for 2014. Undoubtedly, the provision made by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in accordance with Annex 1 of Decree-Law No. 4 of 2014 does not take into account the fact that the National Fund for Social Policies does not contribute to the financing of the operating expenses of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies as its nature is eminently that of the Fund which is distributed between the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces for the financing of the integrated network of territorial social services. In the light of the above, I hope - also on the basis of the agenda presented by Mr Scuvera, to whom the Government gave a favourable opinion yesterday in the Chamber - that in the context of the process of converting Decree-Law No 4 of 2014, approved yesterday by the Chamber of Deputies and now before the Senate, we can find spaces to remove the National Fund for Social Policies from the reduction of expenditure referred to in the aforementioned Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u9	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Undersecretary, your answer certainly satisfies the part that highlights the deficiency. The allocation of funds does not satisfy the desire to see resources restored. The decree-law will arrive at the Senate in a few hours and it is clear that, if there is the will of the government, the amending and restoration proposals will be there: but they must be accepted. An agenda is worth what it weighs. Unfortunately, we have already seen approved agendas on several other occasions, which are then ignored. It will be a matter of amending the text, otherwise we would not understand why the Regions themselves, in the State-Regions Conference, have been very concerned and have highlighted in a strong way the risk of blocking the system of social parachute that today guarantees our citizens, through these funds, a future at least more certain than what would be without the same funds.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u10	Following is the question 3-00258 on hazardous maps of flood risk. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u11	Mr President, in relation to Senator Panizza's question 3-00258, which asks us to know the state of the art on the compliances provided for by Legislative Decree No 49 of 2010, that is, on the preparation by the authorities of the basin or the regions of the maps of dangerousness and hydrogeological risk, the following is referred to. Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2010, issued for the transposition of Directive 2007/60/EC, lays the foundations for the implementation of flood risk management plans, within the river districts identified on the national territory. Pending the full operation of the river districts, the article 4, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No 219 of 10 December 2010, in letter b) provides that the authorities of national relief basin and the Regions, each for the part of territory of their own competence, provide for the fulfilment of the obligations provided for by Legislative Decree No 49 of 23 February 2010. Moreover, the above rule provides that, for the purpose of the preparation of the planning tools referred to in the aforementioned decree, the authorities of national important basins shall coordinate the contents and objectives of the plans within the water catchment area, while for the river districts in which there is no authority of national importance, the Regions must provide. In accordance with the deadlines laid down, last June were presented by the authorities of the basin, in coordination with the regions in the river basin district, the maps of danger and flood risk, prepared in compliance with the requests of the European Directive 2007/60/EC and the decree of transposition. The maps have been realized taking origin from the hydrogeological planning plan and represent the starting point from which, by 2015, as provided for in the same directive, the preparation of the flood management plan will be carried out. For the implementation of this regulatory forecast, the authorities of the basin, in coordination with the Regions falling back in the river basin district, have prepared maps of danger and flood risk, which have been brought to the attention of the respective institutional committees integrated in December 2013. Finally, the combined provision of Article 15 of Directive 2007/60/EC and Article 13 (1) of Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2010 regulates the modalities of communication to the Commission of the obligations relating to the implementation of the Directive. The methods of information to the European Commission by the Italian State provide for the provision of maps of danger and flood risk on the national cartographic portal of the Ministry of the Environment (Article 13, paragraph 1), as well as an activity, governed by the same Article 13, paragraph 4, of information to the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). With regard to the latter, it appears that on the ISPRA website, on the SINTAI page dedicated to Directive 2007/60/EC, all documents useful for reporting to the European Commission have long been available.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u14	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the situation described by the Undersecretary is of absolute tranquillity. I would never have expected that, not least because the question was dated 23 July and the non-answer allowed it to be assumed that the deadlines had not been met. Therefore, I can only be satisfied, also because he talked about both maps and publication on the ISPRA website. As I understand it, the deadlines have been met. I also noted within the question the willingness to collaborate from the Consortium of technological innovation (ConIT), which belongs to the Association of craftsmen of the Province of Trento, and which has developed a special and specific software platform for the matter. I note that the deadlines have been met and that therefore Italy, for once, will not undergo an infringement procedure and will deliver to Europe all the documentation required by the directive and by the decrees that then transposed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u15	The following is the question 3-00278 on a serious accident at a pyrotechnic plant in the province of Pescara. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u16	In relation to the question 3-00278 of Senator Castaldi and others, concerning the outbreak occurred on 25 July 2013 at the plant "Pirotecnica Abruzzo" in Città San'Angelo, in the province of Pescara, the following is represented. The company called "Pirotecnica Abruzzo" by Mauro Di Giacomo is located in Villa Cipressi n. 73, in Città Sant'Angelo. It is registered under code NO032, under the heading "Production and/or storage of explosives" at the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, pursuant to article 15, paragraph 4, of Legislative Decree n. 334 of 1999, and precisely in the category of establishments subject to the provisions of article 6 of the aforementioned decree, as the quantities of dangerous substances present or prescribed are lower than those indicated by the following article 8 and, consequently, not subject to the presentation of the safety report provided for by this last article. It is represented that in the national inventory, also with regard to the plant in question, the information concerning the registry, the quantities of dangerous substances held and the administrative position of the establishment in the procedures provided for in Legislative Decree No 334 of 1999 mentioned above, in relation to the dangerous substances present, as well as territorial information relating to the site of installation and data on inspections of ministerial competence, are collected, with the support of ISPRA. Part of these data are published in the appropriate link of the Ministry of the Environment and accessible to anyone. Due to the considerable number of incidents in pyrotechnic plants in recent years, the Ministry of the Environment, although within the limits of the scarce resources available, with a view to greater prevention, has extended in 2010, 2011 and 2012 the inspections aimed at controlling the prevention of major accidents and safety management systems, institutionally intended for plants with greater quantities of hazardous substances, also to plants such as the one in question, that is those classified as Article 6 of the aforementioned legislative decree, already subject to controls of regional competence. In the context of this control plan, ministerial inspection was also carried out by the company "Pirotecnica Abruzzo" and the investigation, carried out with four separate surveys, ended in January 2013. The final report drawn up by the Commission inspection, while containing recommendations and requirements concerning the implementation of the plant's safety management system and the internal emergency plan, provided a substantial positive result and was sent, in February 2013, to the plant manager and the competent authorities (Regional Technical Committee at the Regional Directorate of Abruzzo, National Fire Department, Provincial Command of Fire Departments, Prefecture, Region, Province, Town Council, ASL and Provincial Labour Directorate) for the start of the actions of their respective competence, inviting the local administrations competent in the field of spatial and urban planning to verify, for the plant in question, the application of the provisions for the control of urbanization and the minimum safety requirements of the areas affected by establishments at risk of major accidents, provided for by Article 14 of Legislative Decree No 334 of 1999 and by the Decree of the Minister of Public Works of 9 May 2001. For its part, the Municipality of Città Sant'Angelo has implemented into its own territorial planning instruments (technical regulation of the General Regulatory Plan), by means of a special variant approved with resolution of City Council No. 36 of 3 June 2010, the dictates referred to in Article 14, paragraph 5 -bis, of Legislative Decree No. 334 of 1999 and, therefore, having already in itinere the drafting of the new municipal urban planning instrument (General Regulatory Plan - PRG), with note of 20 September 2013 it has provided to inform the external professional, for the purpose entrusted, about the need to transpose, also in the new PRG, the law "Seveso -ter" and to prepare all the acts necessary for the observance of the same. Finally, the Municipality of Città Sant'Angelo has reported to have commissioned an external professional, highly specialized and expert in environmental design and safety, as support to the PRG Office, in order to carry out a specific reconnaissance investigation, extended throughout the municipal territory, aimed at detecting and classifying all types of activities and all possible situations that contribute to the formation of actual hazards of major accidents for the population, and, as such, subject to the law. It should be noted that following the inauspicious accident involving the death of five people, four of whom belong to the Di Giacomo family and a firefighter who subsequently died from the injuries reported, the plant in question has been destroyed and is currently inoperative.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u19	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am partly satisfied with the answer, which suggests that the Ministry has played its full part. I ask you whether you can have the documentation of the reports that were made in January (I remember that the incident occurred in July, so after five months). I will address the local authorities with regard to the documentation relating to the profiles that pertain to article 14, paragraph 5-a of Legislative Decree n. 334 of 1999. I have here with me a national inventory of ISPRA, where however the company registered with the NO032 code does not appear. However, this documentation may not be up to date. I tell you for information that in the regional summary of the Abruzzo Region, in the province of Pescara, we have only three sites; the companies recorded with the codes DO012, COPEMA Srl, NO031, always of Città Sant'Angelo, Brothers ALLEVI fireworks show Srl, and then we have another in Pescara with the code NO011, Abruzzo Costiero Srl. The NO032 code, which you quoted, is not contained in this document of December 2013. I will therefore check in more up-to-date documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u20	The following are questions 3-00452 and 3-00827 on the organizational choices made by the Italian Post company. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u21	Mr President, as has already been pointed out, questions 3-00452 and 3-00027 raise questions on the same subject on which the Italian Ministry, at the Italian Post Office, carried out an appropriate study. These questions are then answered together. The maintenance and technical assistance services necessary for the operation of plants, machines and equipment in the Postal Mechanization Centres (CMP) are currently covered by the contract concluded following a Community invitation to tender, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 163 of 2006. The most economically advantageous tender was made by the Temporary Grouping of undertakings (RTI) Selex ES SpA-PH Facility Srl, which was therefore awarded the tendering procedure. In this regard, Poste italiani has specified that the relative specifications previewed, within the mechanism of the offer more economically advantageous, the allocation of a specific technical score for the participating enterprises that engaged to assume and/or maintain in service a quota of the staff already operating. Moreover, the company has evidenced that, in identifying the specific assignment between the various sites of the maintenance and technical assistance services, it has been necessary to take into account also the organizational constraints and the modifications previewed from the total plan of reorganization of the logistic net of the postal services, identified with the agreement of 28 February 2013, that it has reduced the number of the plants, the sorting plants and, consequently, the relative activities and the necessary maintenance services. As far as the contractual situation is concerned, Poste Italiane points out that previously the maintenance and technical assistance services of the plants at the CMPs were insured, following the tender procedure of 2004, by the consortium Elsag SpA-Finmek which, from 2007, used, under subcontracting scheme, mainly of the companies Stac Italia and Logos, which, through an extension of the contract, have insured the service until 30 September 2013. The turnover in the maintenance contract, which took place on 1 November, and the entry of the Temporary Grouping of Companies (RTI) Selex ES SpA-PH Facility Srl awarded the tender, led to the start of a trade union dispute aimed at maintaining the employment levels of the staff of the outgoing companies. This dispute was characterised by strikes and other forms of protest such as, for example, the reduction and delay of scheduled assistance and maintenance operations in the plants and the abandonment without prior notice of the work place by the technical staff employed by the sub-suppliers in the facilities of the Postal Mechanization Centres (CMP). Since last September, the company PH Facility has started a discussion table with the social partners in order to reach an overall agreement, mainly concerning the transfers of resources to be carried out at the time of the takeover. Unfortunately, this comparison did not reveal the possibility of an agreement. For this reason, a consultation table has been set up at the MISE to seek the conditions of an agreement capable of involving all stakeholders, with the aim of also offering a job opportunity to all those who were previously employed in the CMPs employed by Logos and Stac. In this regard it is noted that in the meeting, held on November 19, 2013, at the Ministry of Economic Development, Poste Italiane has evidenced that, as a result of the agreement of February 28, 2013 concerning the reorganization of the delivery service, have emerged altogether approximately 6,000 surpluses, of which approximately 1,400 at the CMPs. Therefore, requests for new staff from other companies are not justified. The comparison, however, has not ended here and is still ongoing. In the meeting of February 06 held at the MISE was shared by the companies Selex ES, Stac, Logos and trade union organizations an agreed text aimed at safeguarding the employment of which is expected the final subscription. Meanwhile, the workers of Stac and Logos are protected by a cash-integration agreement extraordinary earnings for cessation of activity and expect PH Facility to assume an important part of it in the context of the full employment of all employees, as provided for in the above-mentioned draft agreement reached on 6 February. I confirm explicitly that precisely this, that is, the respect of the understandings, is the qualifying objective of the action of the Government. With regard to the verification of the quality standards of the universal postal service, the Guarantor Authority is the body responsible for regulating and supervising the postal sector. The results of the quality checks carried out by the same are published annually on the website of the Authority that has assured that the reported profiles will be subject to monitoring in the context of the supervision activity of own competence that is carried out with continuity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u24	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply. I believe that the reconstruction you have also done on behalf of the Ministry, Undersecretary, has been important, and above all I consider it very important - and I thank you for this, partly because otherwise I would have called for it further - to take the commitment to support the full implementation of the agreement signed between companies and trade unions on 6 February. You will not miss what we are talking about. We are talking exactly about employment, people and, together, people and jobs that are in the service that should be guaranteed universally, although, of course, in terms of efficiency, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. I am therefore satisfied with the answer and thank you, Mr Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u27	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, like Mrs Fedeli, I very much appreciated the commitment that the Undersecretary has made. It's important. I would like to point out, however, that the information I have received is slightly different from what you, Mr Undersecretary, have reported. It is true that the table is still open and well to come, because we are debating and trying to find a solution, because we are talking about choices involving a large number of jobs. I would like to point out that the workers have shown the greatest seriousness (in fact, I did not agree with one of his passages) and that too many steps have been taken back. As you yourself said, there are still a lot of workers out there. Among other things, the company makes use of temporary workers, some of which - from what I understand - have been stabilised, while a substantial part is still not. It will therefore be necessary to pay attention to this, because I would not (as I believe everyone) that once again there is a war between the poor, which our country does not really need. I therefore ask you to pay particular attention to these situations, because in our country we need everything except this. I take what you said as a good thing, and I am really happy that a commitment has been made, because the workers in this country have already paid so much. I wouldn't want them to keep paying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u28	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u29	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-215.ana.u30	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 25 March, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.33 p.m.
