ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u4	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification of the text of the Minutes. It seems to me that the Senator Secretary said I intervened, but it doesn't seem to me. Can you check it out, please?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u5	We certainly do the verification and it will be on the record. In the meantime, since no comments are made, the Minutes are deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u8	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked for the floor, but you did not notice, to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u9	Senator, unfortunately, the stage in which such a request could be made has now passed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1450, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, once again, as is clear, the shuttle of decree-laws between the House and the Senate takes place in times which are not compatible with a thorough examination by the two branches of Parliament, at least for this type of measure, achieving a de facto monocameralism, even if, as I shall point out later, a fundamental part of the measure, i.e. the articles concerning capital, bears the sign of the work done by the Senate on the previous editions of the decree-law. Before I look at this part of the measure, however, I would like to address some other aspects, in particular those contained in two other sections of the decree-law, the first of which concerns TASI. Article 1 makes an operation that we of Civic Choice had feared and on which already in comparison with the previous Executive, the Letta Government, we had expressed the greatest reservations. It is the mechanism that authorizes the Municipalities to arrange a further increase of the TASI up to 0,8 per thousand, that is, to allow the full coverage of the lower revenues realized by the Municipalities themselves as a result of the very messy operation IMU, a requirement connected in part to the perverse agreement that forced the Letta Government to subordinate its fiscal policy for 2014 to the elimination of the IMU, obsessively demanded by Forza Italia, but also to criticalities deriving from the fact that, perhaps with some cleverness, the Municipalities served in the budget the insurance given by the Government about the neutrality that that that operation IMU would have had for the balance of their accounts: neutrality that obviously had to refer to the standard rate and certainly not to rates and deductions freely and generously indicated by the Municipalities at the expense of the state budget. This has not happened, and so today we have to cover with new taxes the lower taxes granted by the local authorities. But it is clear that the TASI operation, which has re-introduced local real estate taxation under disguises, by making a mix of capital taxation and taxation for the financing of services (taxes that, at least for the capital part, should be more strongly linked to dynamic management of the land register and to the valorization of the buildings connected to the realization of public investments) will have to be the subject of a further reflection linked to the implementation of a fiscal federalism, which the crisis of recent years has at least partially rendered obsolete. Other rules contained in Article 2 also introduce a number of provisions to facilitate the putting into liquidation and/or the transfer of staff in tax and relocation... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u14	Colleagues, shall we suspend the session? Take it easy, or I'll suspend the session. This is true both on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u15	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). I was talking about the provisions to facilitate the liquidation and the transfer of shares of subsidiaries directly or indirectly. However, while waiting for these facilities to constitute a real incentive, the effectiveness of all the rules obliging local authorities to proceed, by 2014, to the liquidation and the disposal of company shares is extended by one year. These are rules that have already been dictated by a number of measures, but they are still either repealed or extended under the pressure of the huge system of local societies. It should be done on time to check how often this imperative obligation has been dictated and regularly disregarded. So far nothing has happened, and the thousands of local and regional societies continue to proliferate and produce their devastating effects on local finance and on the expansion of the political and bureaucratic class that, over the years, has installed itself within this myriad of bodies, managing public money, recruitment and procurement, outside the rules of transparency and public accounting. A very strong and compelling incentive to proceed in the direction indicated by the Stability Act 2013, and then - again - in that of 2014, however, will be the new public accounting rules, to which we are bound by the European Union, which oblige, from 2015, local administrations to consolidate in their financial statements the profit and capital account of the companies involved. In this way the deficits and debt of these companies will have to emerge, which very often have been used precisely in order to conceal the real financial situation of the controlling institutions. The risk is that there will be many bad surprises, which will have to be handled with care also at the level of accounting balances of the enlarged public finance. These factors will be assessed in order to respect the parameters of the Stability Pact which, even if it will be amended appropriately to exclude certain investments, will nevertheless impose strong budgetary discipline, and will also be evaluated in order to respect the budgetary constraints of the entire country. The further effect of this rationalization process will be that the services managed by this plethora of companies will have to meet standard costs and will no longer be able to incorporate the inefficiencies that were financed from the list of service contracts concluded with the companies in house; contracts in which the Shareholders municipalities have generally protected more the interests of their companies than those of the citizens users. The decree of the Government in fiscal matters - that of the 80 euros, to understand us - intervenes in this matter, indicating a path of reorganization of these subjects through processes of industrial and corporate aggregation, from which few players of the field of utilities can arise, as in the past has happened in many countries (especially in France and Germany), that have thus given rise to enterprises that today are industrial giants at European level. But if this really is to happen, it will need a careful and active direction that the Government will have to activate as soon as possible to ensure that the closure of local societies is also a way to create new industrial and healthy employment opportunities. It will be good, therefore, that, as a first step, a monitoring of compliance with the rules on dissolution and remission should be carried out and that these obligations should be accompanied by appropriate sanctions. Otherwise, even this time nothing will happen. There is then in the decree-law another group of provisions that contain a sort of lifesaver for numerous situations of absolute and no longer manageable financial emergency of many Italian Municipalities, large and medium-sized. No longer, therefore, a decree "save Rome" but a sort of decree "saves all," with interventions that cannot but arouse more of a perplexity, from the slowing down of the rules relating to the preparation of the return plans by the municipalities under conditions of foreclosure that, like the Municipality of Naples, have not passed the examination of the Court of Auditors, to the measures for the recovery of supplementary treatments unduly paid to the staff. Rules that point to tolerance for illegal behaviour that penalise virtuous Municipalities and weaken the system of rules. It is a culture that has characterized and often characterizes our legislation and that I believe should be abandoned because it is deeply contradictory to the principles of autonomy and responsibility of fiscal federalism. But the most significant package concerns Roma Capitale. We are in the third version of the measure for the rescue of the city of Rome. Here we must acknowledge to the Government that we are facing a real turning point in relation to previous versions, at least in terms of method and principle, but also in many respects with regard to merit. The fundamental point is that, in the face of a huge and exceptional financial commitment that the State and, therefore, all Italian taxpayers are making to cope with the debt and deficit of the Rome budget, capital must now start a process of radical and profound restructuring that eliminates the structural causes of the deficit. There are no more general commitments, because some of the actions necessary to achieve this objective are indicated punctually by the decree-law and must be included in the plan to be elaborated within one hundred and twenty days and to be implemented under the monitoring of an interinstitutional table to which it will ultimately be the responsibility to guarantee the national community that Rome will not recover in a few years, as has already happened more than once, with the umpteenth hole to be restored. The speeches referred to in Article 16 are politically strong, demanding and expensive and correspond in a very large part with those contained in the amendment I submitted to the first decree-law approved by the Senate but then not confirmed in the Chamber of Deputies, where they had still managed to accept the principle of responsibility. The fact that the Government has adopted this logic, the logic of the assumption of responsibility by the directors of a municipality that, even though capital of Italy, receives money from the State to repair the bad management that produced debt and deficit - which was precisely the principle underlying our original proposal - is a fact that must be emphasized as very positive. Now it will be the Government to follow the path described by the decree-law and to realize that reorganization without which not only the Municipality, but the entire city of Rome would be destined to a process of progressive dequalification and degradation of urban quality and services and, therefore, to a painful economic decline. Of course, the new recruitments in municipalized companies announced these days and started just before the entry into force and is operational the decree-law that is under discussion and on the eve of the hearings, dear Undersecretary who will have to coordinate the interinstitutional table, are not a good viatico. We expect the Government to intervene and vigilantly before the oxen have escaped from the stable, because protecting the capital, avoiding its failure and its decline is not only interest of Rome but is interest of the entire country. Overall, therefore, our opinion on this measure is positive, even if its emerging nature, the multiplicity of crisis situations in local finance on which it will intervene must make us reflect on how the system of local authorities and their finance has gradually lost a sustainable balance without a new one being built. I believe we need to start a reflection on these issues, a reflection that looks at a new financial framework that, however, can only start from new organisational models based on aggregations, on the specialization of functions, on subsidiarity, models that reduce costs without compressing quality, because the quality of cities, of all urban centres of medium and small dimensions, is and must remain the characteristic and identity element of our country. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Santini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u16	. She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are today debating contains measures of great importance and therefore for a long time debated in recent months. The need to emerge from a crisis that has long stifled families and businesses requires us, with a deep sense of responsibility, not to block the timid signs of recovery that seem to be there. We at New Right Center have always been close to the world of local administrations, intermediate bodies and especially families, and it is to them that we must give quick answers. Therefore, how can we not agree on the topic of the TARI and the TASI with which we give more autonomy to the municipalities through mechanisms of exemption that were not previously foreseen or (in particular regarding the TASI) a greater freedom than the use of the extratragettito? 16.50 p.m. (Following CHIAVAROLI). Of course, greater autonomy and greater responsibility also means that local authorities are called upon to better control their actions. This means working quickly to put an end to that universe of nearly 8,000 participating companies, half of which with accounts in red, which are all too often armchairs and distribution centers of prebends and out-of-market wages. Families can no longer pay with their sacrifices the mistakes made too often in the past. Among these, however, there are municipalized companies that are useful to the community and well managed. It is therefore good to provide local administrators with the tools to apply disposals and reorder of the local public services sector, such as the possibility of merging participating companies that perform homogeneous functions or the inter-company mobility of staff. It is necessary to improve the system without making linear cuts, but to put in place return plans for deficit reduction and structural rebalancing. Only in this way can you start a path of virtuous and rewarding efficiency. The maneuvers contained in this measure are not only State aid (as some have said), they are not condoned to the mistakes of the past, but represent the possibility for an improvement of the local administrative sector, without giving in to the rigour and accompanying the municipalities, the founding part of our country, to the respect and the attainment of the plans of return. Therefore, Article 16, which, in the face of sanatorium payments for previous debts, imposed by precise deadlines on the path of return from the deficit, to which the City of Rome Capital will have to submit, under the strict control of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. In this measure, however, there are not only maneuvers for the return plans of local authorities. There are also concrete themes that are at the heart of millions of Italian families. In fact, additional resources (125 million more than the 500 already provided for in the Stability Act) are expected for the Municipalities to define deductions on the TASI for the main homes and those dates in use to family members, which will allow not to pay the TASI and to see a citizens' right affirmed: that to the first house. There is a budget of EUR 150 million for the safety of school buildings and for cleaning and auxiliary services in schools. It would be a nonsense to have solid schools in the foundations, but without primary services for our children, such as cleaning classrooms. I stress, then, the support for agricultural production through the exclusion of TASI to agricultural land; in doing so, we defend the strategicity of the agri-food sector, which has always been the driving force of our country. This measure, as far as it has so far been, therefore goes in the direction of the so-called principle of vertical subsidiarity, with a responsibility for the levels of government closest to the citizens and their needs. In this regard, I applaud the exclusion from the planned cuts of the Municipality of L'Aquila and those affected by the earthquake and the allocation of EUR 50 million to the financing of the National Emergency Fund. These appropriations will be made available following the verification of the actual state of implementation of the assistance provided for in the programming. It is necessary to support the areas affected by natural disasters, but at the same time it is also necessary to ensure that the reconstruction of these areas is under way. The State in this way is constantly present and at the side of citizens who have suffered damage to their homes and businesses, not only economically but also and above all actively. The decree that we are analyzing today - and I conclude - contains therefore a series of norms that go to favor the citizens and the enterprises, restore a cooperation between central state and local authorities in the process of administrative simplification and efficiency of the sector, less bureaucratic and more and more meritocrat, where they are the concrete results to have the best to contribute to the progress of our country. The way out of the crisis is long, there is still so much to do, but continuing on this road and feeding positively the signs of recovery, we will be able to give Italy and the Italians the future they deserve. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u19	Madam President, this saves Rome-b, already in its title (even if it is not official) denounces a confusing way of law-making. Here the defiances of the majority and the crisis of government wanted by the Democratic Party presidency committee caused the decadence of the second save Rome. So we are at the third save Rome, which since article 1, paragraph 2, of the bill of conversion denounces to be the fruit of so many messes. This paragraph 2, in a very general way, says that they are without prejudice to the effects produced and the legal relations arising on the basis of the decrees-laws miserably wrecked in recent months. What does it mean that they are saved we will see later with rains of appeals, disputes and damages for the State and for the subjects that have to do with the State. But two clear things emerge in the midst of such confusion. Firstly, there is great heterogeneity. We have heard the high warnings of the President of the Republic about the need for the homogeneity of decree-laws; there have also been judgments - for the truth, sometimes even disconcerting - of the Constitutional Court that have declared the illegality of norms approved for eight years on the basis that eight years later it was discovered that there was no homogeneity within the decree-law. Here we have a decree that already in the title denounces a certain gap, because it contains urgent provisions on local finance and then measures to ensure the functionality of the services carried out in school institutions: two aspects extremely distant from each other. But it must also be said that other rules have been introduced, such as those relating to funds for national emergencies and those on rail transport in regions with special status. It is not clear whether these arguments are more distant from local finance or from services in school institutions. We therefore have a considerable heterogeneity in which, however, we have a certainty: the increase in taxes on the house. The TASI is not only a new name for the IMU but also a new way to manage the IMU. In fact, there is an increase in the rate that originally, in the slides of the President of the Council or in certain propagandistic performances, was justified by the fact that with these additional proceeds the municipalities could have made deductions. This, however, is said in a very confusing way in the text and gives way to the municipalities to do exactly what they want and, in many cases, in front of administrations that spend and spread and then have to cover, it will be used to make few deductions while increasing the rate. It should be remembered that the IMU, although reinstated with the opposition of Forza Italia, provided for at least a deduction of 200 euros on the first dwelling and 50 euros for dependent children. This time the forecast is not there; the goodness of the municipalities, compatible also with the lack of resources and with the tendency, which still remains in some cases, to determine waste, will be cancelled, and consequently from June the Italians will pay a tax on the house more expensive than the old IMU. In fact, a total of 3 billion more will arrive in the coffers of the state; and if they arrive in the coffers of the state they come from the pockets of the citizens, that therefore they will have to pull out 3 billion more than last year, when already it has paid twice and a half the taxes on the house that they paid until 2011, last year of the government presided by Silvio Berlusconi. Another provision that was approved in the Commission to the House, which then thanks to the intervention of the Forza Italia Group did not arrive in the Senate, is worth mentioning. Evidently in the Commission in the House, the majority considered to introduce a very important rule, because behind the nickname of "salva Roma", with all the problems of this city in terms of debt, had also been inserted a rule "salva Firenze", or rather "salva Firenzi", in order to heal the problems that emerged, with the Court of Auditors' investigation, on the disbursements for the benefit of employees (grants made with contracts outside the law, which the Court of Auditors considered non-application of a law and rather alien to the criteria laid down by law), which would have caused a blow over these illicits. As it happens, Florence is the first municipality involved in these investigations. The intervention of the Forza Italia Group in the Chamber prevented this rule from remaining in the text, and therefore it did not reach us; however, it should be noted the willing attempt made by the two MPs of the Democratic Party, one of which signed that amendment and the other an amendment to allow the municipalities with certain characteristics (in which, incidentally, together with probably others there was of course also the City of Florence) to increase the number of directors hiring at a fixed time and without competition, practice that seems to have already been applied in that city in a rather generous way. Fortunately, all this is no longer due to the strong determination of Forza Italia, but what is planned is more than enough to make us say that we must vote against it, because the imposition on the house affects the savings of citizens, the heritage of citizens: it is a tax on the first house, on the place where we live, which is indispensable to a family. In addition to hitting the private sector, it hits those tens or hundreds of thousands of jobs in the construction sector, as well as the sectors that supply the building materials, one of the excellences of our country, which are undoubtedly mortified by a policy that tends to kill the building market and thus reduce the propensity of Italians to spend to build, to restore, to buy apartments that already exist, with the consequent cancellation of tens and tens of thousands of jobs that are certainly not delocalizable. Many things can be relocated, but the work done to build or modernize homes in our country will certainly not go abroad. So one of the fundamental sectors that gives work to so many people - I repeat - both directly and indirectly is hit by this increase in taxation on the house, which will go hand in hand with the increase in taxation on the savings of citizens contained in the famous decree-law that gives 80 euros to each, but taking away to everyone a much greater sum. Therefore, our position is certainly against it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u20	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u21	The Conference of the Leaders, meeting this afternoon, proceeded - by a majority - to reverse the order of the topics previewed from the calendar of next week, anticipating the examination of the decree-law in the matter of revival of the occupation, approved from the Chamber of Deputies, regarding the decree-law on the emergency housing, at first reading. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting will be supplemented by the resolution of the Assembly on the constitutionality of decree-laws examined today by the 1st Permanent Commission, where the request from the prescribed number of senators reaches in time. Next week's calendar is complemented by a resolution on the constitution of the Senate in court in a conflict of attribution. In relation to the decree-laws and other items on the calendar, the beginning of the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 6 May was anticipated at 3 p.m. and it was also scheduled for the morning of Tuesday 13 May, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Finally, at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 8 May, the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will reply to immediate questions under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u24	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I have unfortunately lost the first lines of your communication. I would like to have confirmation that we are voting in this House on the reversal of the items on the agenda next week, given that at the Conference of the Leaders the expression of will was by majority and there was opposition from two parliamentary groups, including the one I represent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u25	Senator Buccarella, I recalled that the new calendar was approved by a majority and not unanimously. If your Group makes a proposal to amend what was decided by a majority, this proposal may be put to the vote. Of course, the proposed amendment must be limited to the purpose of the decision of the Conference of the Leaders, that is to confirm the timetable already voted, except for the reversal between the two decrees, the one on housing emergency and the one on employment. The object of the change is only this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u26	At this point, Madam President, I am formalising the proposal that we should return to the previous timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we did not subscribe to the proposal, which was then adopted by a majority in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to reverse and therefore anticipate the examination of the Employment and Labour Decree in this House because - and I take this opportunity to denounce it to the House too - the deadline for tabling amendments was set in the Commission on 2 May in the first morning. As far as we are concerned, since there is also the mid-May anniversary, we believe that this is detrimental to the right of senators to have the opportunity to table amendments in the appropriate terms. We therefore find it absolutely unintelligible the request for a change in the timetable which we had voted on, and we ask the House to express its views on the maintenance of the previous timetable, and to examine first the decree on housing emergency and then the decree on employment. We also officially request in this House that the deadline for amendments set in the Commission be shifted to give everyone the opportunity to submit them. I know we are here, but I believe that this House must be aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u30	With regard to this last point, Senator De Petris, as you yourself have pointed out, this is a decision that falls within the autonomy of the Commission. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senator Buccarella, aimed at restoring the order of examination of the decree-laws contained in the previous calendar, and then to discuss the bill of conversion of the decree-law in the matter of housing emergency before the bill of conversion of the decree-law for the revival of the occupation. It's not approved. The timetable of proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Group Heads and communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u31	Let us resume the discussion of draft law No 1450, which was briefly interrupted. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u32	Madam President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by all the senators, and many of them are in part related to the comments made in my report. However, many comments had also been made during the Commission's examination. In view of the limited time available to us, I do not go any further, not least because many of the comments had already been the subject of a reply in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u33	I call the rapporteur, Senator Zeller.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u34	Madam President, I agree with my colleague, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u35	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u36	Madam President, I would like to make very few comments on the questions that have been put in some of the speeches. For the rest, the debate was very similar to that which took place during the debate on the two previous decrees-laws. The debate has been wide-ranging, especially in this area of Parliament, and so there is not much to add. First, however, Madam President, allow me to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done and the relevant Commissions, both for the work they have done at this stage in the examination of the decree-law and for the examination of the two previous decrees. It is true what you said in your speech, Madam President, namely that the text before us has been very influenced by the work, which it largely transposes, which the Senate had done on the occasion of the examination of both the first and the second decrees that have lapsed. Therefore, the work carried out by this branch of Parliament has been very important and has enabled us to obtain a more complete, more precise text, more corresponding to the requests made by the parliamentary groups and the complex reality that the rules are intended to regulate. I am just saying, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, that this measure will make it possible to achieve a sufficient and definitive settlement of the issue of local taxation, entrusting the municipalities with the regulation of some of the aspects of this tax, which will be lower than the old IMU, just as the old IMU - at least in relation to some groups of taxpayers - and which will enable the municipalities to return a framework of financial certainty, including the integration of the rebalancing fund of 625 million, which has been allocated by the same decree-law. It is therefore a measure that intervenes on situations of widespread difficulties, even healing - it is true - extremely difficult situations. The difficulties that Italian municipalities have experienced in recent years, however, are not all linked to episodes or conducts of bad financial management, but also to objective difficulties, widely present in the local Italian authorities, and some norms, introduced especially at the time of reading the provision to the Chamber of Deputies, allow to restore conditions of financial sustainability, also for important municipalities. Similarly, the discipline, articulated, meditated, that has received many indications from all the Groups, of majority and opposition, about Rome Capital is an indisputably strengthened discipline with indications related to Rome Capital, which, although exercising its own autonomy, must correspond to this primary interest, which is of Rome but also of the Country, to return a condition of stable and structural financial equilibrium to the most important local agency of our country by entities and functions. On this point, a number of objections have been raised, and I shall not dwell on them, because they mostly refer to points concerning the differentiated treatment that Rome would have had with respect to other local authorities. I would point out that some of the senators who have proposed these objections belong to Groups which in 2008, 2009 and 2010 supported far more differentiated measures, let us say, than the ordinary discipline of those proposed today as a result of the additional difficulties encountered as a result of the events of recent years. On the other hand, a condition of differentiation of the financial structure of Rome Capital is largely supported by the specialty of the status of the Municipality of Rome and the function that Rome Capital has, with very large results and regulatory support, some of which still awaits to be implemented, for example with regard to the regulation of the financial relations between the Central State and Rome Capital, regulation largely influenced in negative by the need to face the past debt merged into the executive management. I would just like to make one point about the importance that has been made with regard to the fact that Rome Capital, although it is the target of these measures which face the widely known difficulties, would have proceeded recently (or rather not the municipal body but one of the most important and most difficult participating companies) to hire 350 drivers. As far as the Government is concerned, these recruitments are strictly in term aimed at disposing the thousands of employees of this company of their holidays. Therefore, there is no increase in staff: on the contrary, the municipality is obliged to reduce, or at least to rationalise, the use of staff in the context of a profound restructuring of the participatory system, which will have to be one of the decisions following the discipline that we are examining here today. I would just add, Madam President, that the questions put by Senator Fornaro, for example, concerning non-further extensionability, or rather the request to the Government not to extend the deadline for approval of municipal budgets, agree with the Government. I would point out that the deadline of 31 July was set at the suggestion of the parliamentary groups and at the request of the ANCI, and was largely motivated by the fact that the discipline of the main local taxes, the TASI and the TARI, perfected and integrated with this measure, requires a few weeks of adjustment and regulation at the local level, so it required and requires a postponement in the modalities arranged by the House of Deputies of the deadline for the approval of the budget. The government's opinion is that after the end of July 31 you can't go. Just as we share the observation of putting hand, with the ways and times that will be decided, to a restructuring, a reform of the discipline on the failure of the local authorities, that over time has seen normative grafts and sedimentation of interventions that require an overall reorganization of the matter. On which - I repeat - we will definitely come back to discuss with an overall reset approach. For the rest, in the very short time that separates us from the expiry of the measure (I will then say it in the expression of the opinion), the government's orientation is to ask the Senate Chamber (which - I repeat - has already intervened very extensively on the content of this measure), although certainly the Groups and individual senators are bearers of proposals sometimes acceptable, to allow an approval without modifications of the text itself, to avoid the risk of the third decadence of this measure, which would be a problem not for the Government or for the majority, but would be a serious problem for the country. So, Madam President, I would like to see an examination following this requirement, which is an objective requirement: it is true that the House has taken a little more time, but it had never entered into the substance of the provision, whereas the Senate had done so in the previous two readings. With these considerations I conclude, Madam President, by calling for a quick examination of the amendments and, therefore, of the text as a whole, and for the adoption of the measure, which is important for all the reasons that have been widely illustrated by the senators who have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u37	I would like to inform you that the Presidency has received, and are distributed, the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission, which last, in addition to the draft law under consideration, has delivered its opinion on the amendments to Article 3 which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 2.1, 2.24, 2-a.0.1, 3-a.0.200, 5.0.1, 6.2, 7.5, 7.0.1, 16.28, 19.7, 19.204 and 20-a.0.1 are inadmissible because of the content of the decree-law in question, which contains urgent provisions on local finance and services carried out in school institutions. The Presidency also states that amendment 1,56, aimed at amending Law No 222 of 1985 laying down rules for the implementation of the Concordat between the Italian State and the Catholic Church of 18 February 1984, and amendment 20.6 amending a source of secondary rank, is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u40	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that amendments 1.0.3 and 1.0.4 be put to the vote with the support of 15 Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u41	Senator Ciampollo, these are not amendments on which there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution: they are impossible because of the extraneousness of the matter. It is an indispensable assessment of the Presidency, and it is not possible to proceed to the vote, even if at the request of a quorum of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1,200, 1,201 and 1,202. With regard to amendment 1,200, it is proposed to delete point (a) because it is not considered appropriate to allow the municipalities further increases in the TASI rates, which always disadvantage the usual, i.e. families. As regards Amendment 1,201... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u43	It is not possible to work with this buzz, it is necessary to lower the voice, otherwise the Government, the rapporteurs and the Presidency cannot follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u44	FUCKSIA (M5S). With reference to paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Decree-Law, with amendment 1,201 it is asked to insert, after letter a), the letter a-bis), concerning paragraph 679 of Law No 147 of 2013, which allows the municipalities the possibility to provide for reductions or exemptions of the tax TASI for certain properties: the amendment integrates the list, adding also the instrumental properties to a commercial or business activity. The provision that is proposed always fits in with a favor of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in a moment of economic criticality as the current must be helped to revive. It is not considered necessary to include financial cover in view of the fact that the provision merely provides for a possibility for municipalities to remodulate the rate, and therefore not an obligation. For amendment 1.202 the justification is as follows: in the matter of payments and sending models to taxpayers it is necessary to adapt the current IUC framework to the actual management environment of the two TARI and TASI components. The proposed amendment is aimed at abolishing the current provision for further ministerial regulation of payments, with the exception of the possibility of mandatory sending pre-compiled models. This hypothesis is inapplicable to the entire IUC, as currently envisaged, while it is the one already constantly practiced by the great majority of municipalities with reference to the waste component, TARI. It is therefore made optional and related to an agreement with the Municipalities at the State-City Conference the hypothesis of further regulation of payments, which should be limited to facilitating the pre-compilation of models, with particular reference to the TARI.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u46	You have the right to do so. I would remind you, however, that we are at the stage of illustrating the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u47	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask you to subscribe to all the amendments signed by Senators Comaroli and Bellot. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u48	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u49	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u50	Madam President, as I said in the Commission, the opinion on all the amendments is contrary to the logic of maintaining the measure in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u51	I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u52	I am opposed to all the amendments, for the reasons I have already specified in my reply, with express willingness, if the proposed senators would point out this need, to accept some agendas, of course if shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u53	In fact, certain agendas referred to in Article 1 have been presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u54	Madam President, the opinion on the agenda, which refers to all the articles, is in favour of accepting it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u55	I agree with the opinion expressed by Mrs Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u56	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u59	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, before I move on to the vote, I would like to make a statement which involves the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in my first written text with other colleagues. The Misto-SEL Group and I have come to this conclusion because we do not want to risk this measure for the third time. We will not be complicit in manoeuvres, more or less underground, that put this measure at risk and therefore also some things that are now indispensable and contained in it. We therefore withdraw the amendments signed by Mr Uras and others and, at the same time, we shall abstain on all the amendments, with the exception of those referred to in Article 16, on which we shall be voting in a united and firm way against them. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u60	We move on to Amendment 1.1, which is identical to Amendment 1,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, identical to amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Bulgarelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, up to the words "with the following I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of amendment 1.2 and amendment 1.3. are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot, until the words "for buildings" are used. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 1.8 and Amendment 1.9 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the remaining amendments to Article 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,201 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Bulgarelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 1.11 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the word 'inside'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 1.14 and Amendment 1.15 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Bulgarelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the words 'of the municipalities'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remainder of Amendment 1.20 and Amendments 1.21 and 1.22 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 1.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 1.27, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the words "in agreement" are used. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 1.27 and Amendment 1.28 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.35. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 1,37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 1.39 tabled by Senator Perrone. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 1.40 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.41. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.42.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u63	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I asked to speak on another amendment, which was always signed by Senators Comaroli and Bellot. However, I am speaking on this, because I believe that some amendments could be taken seriously. The amendments tabled by my colleagues are aimed at protecting Italian citizens. It would therefore be appropriate not to have injury already taken into account, squarely and not to accept any kind of suggestion. This behaviour, in fact, certainly does not give opportunity for debate and dialogue and does not help to work and to reason in positive terms in the interests of the community. This attitude on the part of the Government and those who are voting on everything that is presented in a negative way does not lead to good conduct to carry out their functions and activities in the interest of the community. I say this in a loud and strong voice, both to the representatives of the government and to the colleagues of the PD, who are voting almost more to do a favor to the majority party and to some, than not reasoning in terms that could be taken seriously and useful for the country. This attitude, Madam President, shows that there are prejudices and that there is no love for creating projects in the interests of the country. I believe that the behaviour of the majority, of the Members of the Democratic Party, but also of the Members of the New Right Centre, is instrumental and does not give rise to positive reflections in this House which we represent. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u64	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.42, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.43. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,43, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.45. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 1.46. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, up to the words "Article 3". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of amendment 1,46 and amendments 1,47, 1,48 and 1,50 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.49. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.49 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.51. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.52. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.53. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.54. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 1.56 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.57. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senators Vacciano and Molinari. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 1.58 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.60. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We move on to amendment 1.61, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.61, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Senator Vacciano, do you accept the acceptance as a recommendation of the agenda G1,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u65	No, Madam President, and I will explain it quickly. The agenda G1,100 contains requests arising from the reading of the text made by the Budget Service. In particular, the second part, which concerns banking foundations, aims to resolve a probable difficulty of interpretation and coordination with existing rules where bank foundations are deemed excluded from the application of the TASI, since in the previous legislation concerning the IMU this tax was paid by them. In order to be fair, therefore, it must continue to be paid. There is a difference in interpretation between the Budget Service note and that of the Studies Service which could be clarified by accepting this agenda as it is formulated and not as a recommendation. The previous part, however, that is the first item on the agenda, is the quantification of the burdens resulting from the exclusion of agricultural land from taxation Tasi, which probably (although we do not know it yet) will not be compensated by the taxation relating to the areas of apartment. It is simply a matter of having received some indications from the Senate Services. Therefore, the agenda G1,100 could be accepted directly, and not only as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u66	I would ask the representative of the Government if he confirms the opinion already expressed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u67	Madam President, the recommendation involved an opening assessment. As this is a technically complex subject and the drawing up of the agenda is a clear proof of this, I propose to Senator Vacciano, who is present on the agenda G1,100, a slight rewording. The first paragraph of the device is fine and, therefore, the Government's opinion can become favourable. The second paragraph, on the other hand, has a very preceptive content, which implies a serious commitment for the Government to be translated into the norm, which must be verified. Therefore, I ask Senator Vacciano if he is willing to replace the words "confirm" with the following: "to verify the possibility".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u68	Senator Vacciano, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u69	Yes, Madam President, but I would point out that this should already be the interpretation. However, this wording is also good.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u70	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Panizza, the agenda G1,101 was accepted by the Government as a recommendation, while on G1,102 an invitation was made to reformulate it. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u71	Madam President, I do not insist on the vote on the agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, I would ask the representative of the Government to reconsider, because this problem is in fact blocking many public works of the municipalities. In fact, the so-called decree on fiscal federalism introduced the registration tax (minimum 1,000 euros) and the mortgage tax (minimum 200 euros) for all expropriations and also for the servitudes by the municipalities. Try to think about how many expropriations must be carried out on a road; in the case of consortility, this means increasing every public work, even minimal, by at least 20,000-30,000 euros, only as extra taxes for expropriations. It's a crazy turn of events. I really hope that the government realizes that this situation does not make any sense and is really blocking all the works that many expropriates foresee. In particular, the roads are all blocked, because the expenditure on registration and mortgage taxes was not foreseen within the funds allocated by the municipalities or local administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u72	I am afraid that the government representative can only confirm the call for reformulation, because the agenda still requires financial cover. Is that so, Undersecretary Legnini?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u73	Yes, the G1.102 agenda provides for the introduction of a tax exemption, albeit with a shared motivation. In any event, a significant loss of revenue would result. The only reformulation that comes to mind, Senator Panizza, is to evaluate this issue within the review, which is imminent, of the exemption regime, even when exercising the tax delegation and issuing delegated decrees. However, it must be a wording that is not binding. We will have to estimate the loss of revenue, but I am not in a position to do so right now. I could, therefore, suggest to you, Senator Panizza, a new reformulation: in the initial part you could replace the words "to preview" with the words "to evaluate the possibility, when issuing the legislative decrees implementing the tax delegation, of "to add in the end the words "compatibly with the constraints of public finance".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u74	Senator Panizza, do you accept the new wording proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u75	Yes, Madam President. However, I would like to point out to the representative of the Government that it is true that there is a financial match, but it is equally true that to the municipalities the money to pay taxes must still be given by the State, because otherwise they do not have such resources. So, it's true that they cash, I'm also right that they have to pay out money to the municipal administrations. In any case, I welcome the wording proposed by Undersecretary Legnini, which seems to me at least relevant and aimed at a precise commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u76	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The agenda was adopted by the Government as a recommendation. Senator Fravezzi, do you insist on voting? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the agenda will not be put to the vote. The G1.103 agenda was also accepted by the Government as a recommendation. Senator Serra, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u77	Madam President, I do not think it is appropriate to accept this as a recommendation, not least because the agenda is concerned with payments due to errors. It is often the case that, in the case of payments of municipal taxes exceeding the proportion due, due to errors of the taxpayer or the municipality itself which does not give specific indications, the additional amounts are not reimbursed. Therefore, the Government is asked to implement the implementing decree referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 1 in order to define the return of these amounts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u78	I would ask the Government to speak again in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u79	Madam President, in this case there is no difficulty in changing the opinion which, at a more careful reading, becomes favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u80	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.3 and 1.0.4 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.5, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u81	On the amendments tabled to Article 2, as already announced, the opinion is opposed. As regards agendas, the opinion is favourable if it is converted into recommendations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u82	Madam President, on the agenda for the next partsession, Mr G2.100, the Government gives a favourable opinion, since the system includes the wording in use to assess whether it is appropriate, and therefore it can also be accepted. The same applies to the agenda G2.101, but with the replacement rewording of the words "to adopt" with those "to consider the possibility of adopting "to adopt." Agendas G2,102 and G2,103 are accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u83	The G2.103 agenda also uses the formula "Recommends the Government to assess the possibility".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u84	Mr LEGNINI, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Yes, Madam President, but the continuation is very demanding, because it considers the possibility of exempting from TASI. On this subject, Senator Comaroli, there has been a very wide debate in the Chamber. The idea of putting this matter back into practice is always possible, but not at this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u85	We shall proceed with the votes. Amendment 2.1 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I add my signature to the amendment and withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the remaining amendments to Article 2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.4 tabled by Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (18.01) Resumption of the debate on draft law n. 1450 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the following words are used: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 2.11 and Amendment 2.12. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.11a, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.11a tabled by Senators Milo and Perrone. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.13a, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.13a, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.15 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendments 2.20 and 2.23 have been withdrawn, and Amendment 2.24 is not possible. Let us move on to amendment 2.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 2.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bonfrisco, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendments 2.30, 2.31 and 2.32 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.34, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 2.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.35, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u88	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, Article 9 (i) of the so-called tax delegation provides for the introduction, in line with the recommendations of international bodies and any decisions at European level, of systems for the taxation of transnational activities, including those related to advertising collection, based on appropriate mechanisms for estimating the shares of activities attributable to national tax competence. In this case, it is a question of making multinational companies with tax offices abroad pay taxes in Italy for the part of revenues that is estimated to have been produced in our country. It is the repositioning of the prediction that had been journalistically called Google tax or web tax. Consistently with the repeal of paragraph 33 of article 1 of the law of stability for 2014, containing the so-called Google tax several times requested by the 5 Star Movement and finally provided by the decree-law in question, it is asked to delete also the provision contained in the tax delegation that would aim, through the exercise of the delegation, to reintroduce the same tax. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 2.36.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u89	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Ciampolillo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.36, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 2.37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Comaroli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.37, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. On the agenda, Mr G2.100, the rapporteur said he was in favour of accepting it as a recommendation, while the government said it was available for adoption. Senator Zanoni, would you like to clarify the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u90	I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u91	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote. A proposal for a rewording has been put forward on the G2.101 agenda. Do the presenters welcome you? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G2.102, the Government expressed its willingness to accept it as a recommendation. Senator Fravezzi, do you insist on voting? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G2,102 is accepted as a recommendation. The Government also proposes a recommendation for the G2.103 agenda. Senator Arrigoni, do you agree? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda for G2.103. The companies, with the issuing of the decree, had breathed a sigh of relief, because a paragraph stipulated that the TARI was not due if they started to recover the waste assimilated to the urban. It is a pity that at first reading the House has changed the rule, and now the municipalities are required to have a regulation and it is envisaged that it is not an exemption, but a simple discount. This is absolutely not good: businesses need certainty. The combination between TASI, IMU and TARI is in real danger of shutting down the companies, tripled the expenses incurred by them in 2011, and this is not because of the municipalities, but because they receive continuous cuts in transfers to local authorities, not least that provided for in the decree containing the provision on 80 euros, which contains a cut to the resources of the municipalities of 360 million. Companies are asking for certainty, and we are asking that the Government prepare initiatives aimed at exempting the TARI if they demonstrate that they will start to recover the special waste treated as urban waste. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, what do you say to me that the government is willing to accept the agenda as a recommendation? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we would have liked the agenda to be accepted as it stands. However, in the absence of this, we accept acceptance as a recommendation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is ==References====External links== Therefore, the agenda for G2,103 is accepted as a recommendation. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DI BIAGIO (PI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Di Biagio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 2-a. 0.1, with a view to adding an additional article after Article 2-a, is unlikely. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u92	Mr President, with Amendment 3.1, which deletes Article 3, and with subsequent amendments, I would like to stop a process whereby the municipalities which are in a situation of financial failure may have another 120 days to try to propose a new plan of rebalancing, even when the previous plan has been rejected by the City Council or, at a later stage of the procedure, by the Court of Auditors. Basically, a situation would be created for which the municipalities with the accounts in disorder would, however, charge citizens more taxes and provide less services, while the administrators whom that failure has caused thanks to this rule would be immune from the consequences on themselves of the failure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u93	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u94	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u95	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u96	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u97	We move on to Amendment 3.1, which is identical to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n.1450 PRESIDENT. We move on to Amendment 3.4, which is identical to Amendment 3.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Comaroli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n.1450 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bellot and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1450. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.7, which is identical to Amendments Nos 3.8 and 3.9, on which the 5th Commission has voted against under Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Comaroli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Bertorotta, identical to Amendments 3.8, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators, and 3.9, tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 3.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n.1450 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 3.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.16. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bellot and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.16. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.12. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.12 tabled by Senator Campanella has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the following words are put to the vote: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 3.12 and amendments 3.13, 3.14, 3.15, 3.17 and 3.18 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 3.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Comaroli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 3.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.21. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Comaroli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Comaroli and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.21. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.26, which is identical to Amendment 3.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to amendment 3.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.31, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.32, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us turn to Amendment 3.33, which is identical to Amendment 3.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.33, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.34, tabled by Senator Campanella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 3.35 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3.36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.36, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Let us move on to Amendment 3.37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETROCELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.37, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 338. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.38, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.39. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.39, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the words 'in the following I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 3.39 and Amendments 3.40 and 3.41 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.42. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.42, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.43. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.43, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.44, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.45. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.45, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.46. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.46, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.47. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,47, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.48. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3,48, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.49. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.49, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.50. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.50, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.51. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.51, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the following words are used: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. The remaining part of Amendment 3.51 and Amendment 3.52 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.53. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.53, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.54. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.54, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.55. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.55, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.56. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.56, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.57. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.57, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1450 president. Amendment 3.58 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3-a.0.200, aimed at adding an additional article after Article 3-a, is not available. Colleagues, since we have not yet received the additional opinions of the Budget Commission, to the dismay of all, we must finish our work in advance. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u98	I communicate that the requested number of senators has received the request - pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure - for the remission of the favorable opinions expressed by the first standing Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of Decree-Law No 34 on the revival of employment, and No 66 on competitiveness and social justice. Therefore, as already announced when the agenda for tomorrow's sitting is being read, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting shall be supplemented by the Assembly's resolution on these opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u99	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-239.ana.u100	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, April 30, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
