ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u4	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 380, 944 and 1290.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u11	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, the text on which we are about to vote is part of that series of legislative measures aimed essentially at resolving the problems of the crowding of Italian prisons and the inhumane conditions in which a large part of the population in prison is forced. We, as a 5 Star Movement Group, have, as we usually do, had a pragmatic, non-preliminary and non-ideological approach to this type of measure. In this way, in the Commission, we have contributed to the dismissal of a measure for the House that meets the criteria of reasonableness and balance, without going into a reform of the protective and personal measures that would empty the typical function, provided for in our Code of Criminal Procedure, of the precautionary measures themselves, that is, those measures of an exceptional nature aimed at limiting personal freedom before even a final sentence was reached. We must say that the text which has been fired, even following the adoption of the amendments voted in this House, does not have a revolutionary scope, does not disrupt the system and probably does not arouse enthusiasm either way. However, we feel that we are denying the remarks and many criticisms raised at political level, certainly prejudiced, by our colleagues in the North League. The latter wanted to paint the measure basically almost as an empty prison, implying that, if it is approved by the two branches of Parliament, it will allow the release of a multitude of dangerous criminals. This is not the case, because on the substance we note that the measure, in the matter of precautionary measures, is limited to raising by one year the maximum penalty for the offences for which the precautionary measure of detention in prison or home can be imposed, or according to the other gradual criteria. The principle that precautionary detention in prison, with regard to certain titles of crime, is, however, the standard measure that the judge must apply, unless it is proved, in each individual case, that the absence of those precautionary requirements which - it is worth mentioning very briefly - are first of all the existence of a framework of serious indications of guilt against the suspect or the accused and the existence of risks - said in a technical manner - of the pollution of evidence, of the recurrence of the crime or of the escape. It has comforted us, as I said, to have verified that, for certain types of crime such as that referred to in Article 416- bis of the penal code (the crime of the Mafia) and for crimes of exversion, terrorism, murder and sexual harm to minors, in the text remains the approach according to which the detention in prison on a precautionary basis is the standard one, while the objective of the bill is to provide the means to be given to the magistrates to establish that the central precautionary measure, the one to be referred to in normal cases, is home detention. We do not know how much this principle will affect in the short term, if it is adopted, and how it will then be approved by the House of Deputies, in terms of the actual decrease in the prison population. In any case, our examination has not made us find critical that can - as I said before - put at risk the precautionary requirements that may arise in the various procedures in progress, so no modification has been made. We believe that new input can be given to the judiciary when it is also required to verify the topicality of the danger that justifies the precautionary requirement, and the topicality is a further criterion. We have also appreciated the fact that we have extended the applicability of interdictive measures, alternatives to the limited ones of personal freedom, up to twelve months compared to the two months envisaged today under the current code. We then verified that the time limits imposed on the review courts, when reviewing the precautionary measure under Article 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as in the case of appeal under Article 310, to be granted for the lodging of the reasons, have a reasonableness and appropriateness characteristic, which has not raised in us concerns about a possible failure to comply with these terms by the magistrate with the consequent effect of falling precautionary measures and any profiles of assumptions of disciplinary responsibility. For these reasons, therefore, in a very serene and pragmatic way, we announce our vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u14	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senators, I immediately declare that we will vote in favour of this draft law with conviction, because it is in the right direction to redesign the nature of the protective measures. We therefore intervene on one of the priorities of our judicial system, determined by data that have been telling us, for years now, how preventive imprisonment has been made a real abuse. From the latest surveys on the prison population, updated to 28 February, it turns out that out of 60,828 prisoners only 37,000 are the condemned definitively. 40 percent of the prison population is therefore awaiting final judgment: 22,240 people! Among these, 10,885 are even awaiting a first-degree judgment. These people do not remain in prison for just a few days and are serving a sentence even before the trial has been held. This is an objectively unacceptable situation. Compared to such evidence, it would not have been a crime to intervene. The establishment of the measure is therefore necessary and acceptable, even if, once again, I find it necessary to stress that such an important measure, both for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens and for the sustainability of our institutions of punishment, is the result of a buffer measure. In recent months, in fact, we have launched a series of measures - empty prisons, tested, reduced prison population - which are pursuing, not always with the same effectiveness and consistency, guaranteed intents and improvement of the actual conditions for the execution of the sentence. When action is put in place to reform the mechanisms of a sensitive and complex area such as justice, especially if they directly affect the code of criminal procedure, the main road should always be that of structural reforms, as Forza Italia has always demanded. Mine, for the moment, is unfortunately only a hope. I hope that, in the light of the forthcoming parliamentary initiatives, it will become a decisive conviction. The debate and the amendments defined in the Justice Commission, with the cooperation of the different political groups (although respecting the cultural differences that remain such), can be a fundamental signal for such a path, which must be ambitious and shared, confirming that on the issues of justice there can be a significant space for genuine collaboration between political forces. Of course, on the substance of this measure it could have been shown more courage, even if it must be said that the final approach confirms a cornerstone of the rule of law for us indispensable: at the centre there must always be respect for the human person, for the citizen. In line with Article 27 of the Constitution, the presumption of innocence must prevail over any other legitimate consideration, so as to provide for the use of protective custody in prison only as an extreme ratio. Only when any other measure is inadequate is it a principle that seems absolutely acceptable to me, as well as the prediction, for the existence of one of the three precautionary requirements, of topicality and concreteness. The judge's decision will no longer be abstract, of a general nature, based on the seriousness or typicality of the crime at issue. No, it will be taken by chance, person per person, and always accompanied by a specific motivation. Another important novelty is the repeal of Article 1 in relation to the wording adopted by the other branch of Parliament, which avoids any uncertainty as to the differentiation between suspects and accused persons. For us it is not a detail, but a relevant fact to finally put an end to that practice too abused in the past of preventive imprisonment for the sole purpose of obtaining - I say it in quotes - a confession that directs investigations towards set objectives. In contempt, therefore, of the search for truth, in contempt, therefore, of the real determination of facts. A barbarism (I think with horror of the degenerations of the season of Clean Hands) that has not seen in the past the political forces able to oppose in order to make the necessary prevail over the prerogatives of guarantee that the Constitution establishes instead clearly indisputable. By approving this draft law - I repeat - we are therefore taking a step forward; we are doing so through a legislative initiative of Parliament characterised by a shared and constructive political orientation. I hope that this attitude can be repeated as a new political attitude, without prejudice, attentive to the reaffirmation of the protections and guarantees of the process, as indispensable bulwarks of the good of personal freedom, freedom too often in the past uninvited to the advantage of shortcuts, not only from the dubious legitimacy, but also from the dubious effectiveness, because such as to transmit to the common citizen the feeling of being able to be doubly victim, not only of a crime sadly widespread and violent, but also (paradoxically and therefore even more painfully) of a monstrous procedural mechanism, made of inconsistent automatisms, procedural distractions and intolerable lengths. If the spirit that supported this bill can extend, perhaps we can put our hand in reforming reforms, that of justice, without which we will never bring this country back to the place it deserves among modern democracies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u17	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, we have reached the end of the process of approving the text which is going to reform personal protective measures. A process that saw first the Chamber of Deputies engaged then the Senate, in particular with careful work, of merit in the Justice Commission. Now that it has come to the House and results have been obtained, with some corrections, we in the Democratic Party also believe that it is a text that needs to be approved. We also note that a joint work has been carried out on this text, that all the Groups have contributed and that a result has been achieved in terms of quality which I believe will also be enshrined in the final vote. My fellow Members know that we are intervening on a very sensitive and complex point. Personal protective measures have this characteristic: they concern the freedom of persons and therefore a value of inestimable scope. But they also concern the country's security system, a value that has increased and affirmed in recent years. We can call it a new generation right which is certainly rising all the steps of the new rights of a democratic society to become - I am sure - a constitutional right. The freedom of people (a great value) and the right to security of citizens and society. We tried to reconcile these two dimensions, we tried to link personal protective measures with both of these two references. I think that the final result is serious and is quite acceptable and to be approved. The text we are about to approve limits the judge's discretion in assessing precautionary requirements. My colleagues know that these precautionary requirements are triggered and are identified in the danger of pollution of evidence, danger of escape, danger of recurrence of crime. Now, in the assessments that must be made in these contexts, the situation of concrete and current danger of escape cannot be derived solely from the seriousness of the title of crime. In addition to the practicality, the necessary topicality of the danger is included; two elements which must be assessed by the court at the time when it disposes of the precautionary measure. I refer to this point in order to make an understanding of the scope of change, a surgical change, which may appear small, but instead puts in a position not to harm and not to discover both the need to safeguard the intervention when personal freedom comes into play, and that other call that I have repeatedly made to the need not to discover the citizens in the face of the security demand that today is increasingly imposed. We have also done another work of merit which is very important and of quality for me both in the Chamber's work and in the Senate's work, namely to provide particular attention when intervening on certain types of crime. You know that more and more in our system we are inserting the principle of double track; in this case too we have worked on this principle. We are in a position to intervene and therefore to ensure that, when faced with crimes of serious social alarm, the judge's assessment criterion changes and triggers a sort of presumption of fitness of the prison measure alone. This happens for many types of crime precisely of serious social alarm: mafia association or aimed at drug trafficking, reduction in slavery, trafficking in persons, kidnapping for extortion purposes, crimes with purposes of terrorism, pornography, sexual violence; a whole series of crimes, even associative crimes, of great scope. We have also included another very important measure concerning the illicit financing of parties. In short, I think that this double-track principle puts us in a position to contemporaneize the right rigour and therefore to give a clear signal to the country: Parliament, in the face of serious crimes, crimes on which no signal of failure must be given, maintains a strict, rigorous system; on the other hand, Parliament says: attention, when there are crimes not of serious social alarm, the system of guarantees must be qualified and must find further degrees of confirmation and accentuation. I think that this is also a modern balance, a balance that can give strength to the work we are doing and can lead to a broad result on the part of all the political forces that work putting the merit at the center of their evaluation and making parliamentary work not the moment of the injurious conflict, but the moment of the search for the best solution at the service of the country. Colleagues, we are only at the beginning of an important and qualified work and in these months we have already done important, some important, interventions. There have been issues that have been discussed for years, but they had never found a solution or a'synthesis' in Parliament, as they say in these cases, that, on the other hand, justice in the Senate was found in the Commission and even improved in this House. That is why we are in a position to say that what we have also done with the protective custody measure must be a sort of anticipation of what we will have to do on a more general scale. It is clear that on the prison system we must make unprecedented choices, which are truly capable of putting our Constitutional Charter, in relation to the re-educational function of the sentence, at the centre of our work and, at the same time - I say this very clearly - we must make choices that are able to highlight even more the need to intervene on certain types of crime and conduct that, for example, mob bosses from prison are still able to implement. From prison, in fact, their function as leader of the mob organization is still being carried out with devastating effects, because they are able to indicate which contract to rig and what murders to carry out, to orient flows of scary money and - why not - also to condition the democratic system at the moment of the vote. That is why we have to make important choices, put our codes in hand, intelligently review the three degrees of judgment, make sure that there is a modern, high-quality organizational strategy and make choices so that we can be in Europe not as a problem anymore, but as an advanced and modern resource. We vote for this measure with conviction, and the Democratic Party will also make its contribution in the subsequent stages, when we will return to the major reforms. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u18	Let us move on to the coordination proposal C1, which has already been distributed and which I would ask the rapporteur to explain. PALMA, f. f. rapporteur. I give up on you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the acting rapporteur, Mr Palma. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of draft law No 1232, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning personal protective measures. Amendments to Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 on visits to persons with disabilities in a serious situation and to Legislative Decree No 109 of 23 February 2006 on disciplinary offences and related sanctions, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be authorised to make any further changes in formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Thus, draft laws nos. 380, 944 and 1290.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00039 by Senator Castaldi and other senators, 1-00085 by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00090 by Senator Marinello and other senators, 1-00091 by Senator Caleo and other senators, and 1-00092 by Senator De Petris and other senators on oil research in the Adriatic Sea. I call Senator Castaldi to explain motion No 39.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u20	Madam President, I shall remove a little dust because on 26 June, almost ten months ago, we were talking about this motion. On that occasion it was requested and obtained, for various reasons, a postponement of the debate on motion No 39 with our opposition, that of the citizens and that of the Mixed-SEL Group. I remember the points on the motion. The first point asks to take normative initiatives aimed at modifying the blessed article 6, paragraph 17, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, in order to restore the prohibition of research activities, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea within 12 miles also for the granting procedures in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree no. 128 of 2010. The second point calls for support for the start of the examination of draft laws aimed at amending the existing legislation on the research, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea, already deposited in the two branches of Parliament. The third point is specific and calls for the withdrawal of an EIA acceptance measure contained in Opinion No 1192 of 3 April 2013 (to be understood as "Ombrina Mare 2"). The fourth point calls for the revocation of the licences already issued with regard to the granting procedures referred to in Articles 4, 6 and 9 of Law No 9 of 1991 in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree No 128 of 2010, as well as the suspension of the effectiveness of all the authorising and granting procedures resulting from and related to the activities of research, development and cultivation of hydrocarbons. The last point asks to submit, in order to greater environmental protection in the border areas of marine protected areas and of the entire coastline of the Italian territory, all the aforementioned activities of exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons to new procedure of environmental impact assessment referred to in Articles 21 et seq. of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, as well as to strategic environmental assessment referred to in Articles 11 et seq. of the same decree, in agreement with the Region and after acquisition of the opinion of the local authorities. I recall that Senator Dalla Zuanna said, for the then Civic Choice Group for Italy, that he was in favour of the suspensive proposal, also because, among other things, in the Environment Committee it had just been decided to carry out a thorough study on the whole issue of offshore drilling. He said: Therefore, I think it is worth deepening the situation, in the light of the particularly winding regulatory system that has been created. I can only agree with Senator Dalla Zuanna. In fact a considerable contribution to make it tortuous and - I add - harmful had it the Monti Government and the ministers Passera and Clini! [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u21	Excuse your colleagues. I would like to address Senator Romani and colleagues close to him: it is not possible, the colleague is unable to make his speech. (Senator Romans continues to converse with neighboring senators.) Senator Romani, please! [[Senator Romani makes an apology to the President.]] Senator Romani, I'm sorry, I'm asking you if you can turn down the volume of the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u22	Thank you, President. The attitude of the Monti Government and the ministers Passera and Clini, has meant that environmental policies have maintained a relative role, of niche, or rather of fig leaf that covers filthy shame and even more lurid interests. At sea and at sea, where the monitoring, control and presence of civil society are even more complicated, this attitude is even more marked. Your Italy - you created it - is full of normative contortions and I quote some examples. The growth decree 2.0 states, in fact, that on the issues covered by the motion the Regions and local authorities will have no autonomous decision-making capacity. Moreover the data on the oil plans are secret and you can not really know which techniques they intend to use the companies during the drillings, unless they communicate them themselves. That's incredible! In the decree development with reference to article 1 of the law 23 August 2004, n. 239, bearing the reorganization of the energy sector, and delegation to the Government for the reorganization of the provisions in force in the matter of energy, has been added, after paragraph 8, a paragraph of simplification of the administrative procedures for the energy sector. It provides that, in the event of failure by the regional authorities to express the acts of assent or agreement concerning administrative functions in the energy field, the Ministry of Economic Development, if the Region remains inert or persists in its refusal, will return the acts to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - please be careful: not to the Council of Ministers, but to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - for the exercise of the substitute power. These are administrative functions that the State has reserved for itself. This possibility is undoubtedly considered by our Constitutional Charter in Article118, but the reserve at the head of the State for the exercise of these functions, which, as far as ownership is concerned, would not be of the State, subject to compliance with certain conditions. In the present case, an agreement is reached with the Region, as established by the Constitutional Court in judgment No. 383 of 2005. In it it has been specified that the understanding that the Region is called to release must be qualified as a strong meaning, i.e., the structure necessarily bilateral, as such not surpassable, by unilateral decision of one of the parties. Before the legislative amendment, the Region, called upon to enter into an agreement with the State, could have requested that the work be re-evaluated and could have submitted an alternative project to the State. Now, on the other hand, you can't expect anything anymore. Obviously this forecast has also been applied to the ongoing procedures, such as the one for the megagas pipeline that will cross Italy for about 700 kilometers, including the high seismic risk area of the province of L'Aquila. Moreover, there is a tortuous fact that the Ministry of the Environment, then the Democratic Party, has asked to initiate the AIA procedure before the release of the decree of EIA for "Ombrina Mare" of Medoilgas Italy contradicting the one previously assumed by the ministry on 24 October 2012 that had formally communicated to Medoilgas itself that the procedure of EIA could have been completed without the development of the AIA procedure, which should have been started only at a later time. So we ask ourselves: if the regulatory system is particularly crooked and, I add, harmful, why do we not repeal this blessed article 35 of the Development Decree of the Monti Government? Italy is neither OPEC member nor even less an oil power, but along the Italian coast there are 9 platforms and 68 oil wells that extract on average about 650,000 tons of crude oil per year. Only in the Adriatic, at least 70 (seventy) drills could be added to the 9 oil extraction platforms already active. Currently, more than 10,000 square kilometers of Italian sea are the subject of 19 oil research permits already issued and 17,644 square kilometers of sea are threatened by 41 oil research requests. On 15 March 2013, the Monti Government granted the oil research permit at sea to Petroceltic Company Ombrina Mare. It is a huge portion of the Adriatic (50,000 hectares) in front of Pescara, Francavilla and Ortona, destined for the search for hydrocarbons. The whole of the national coastal strip - we must know - lacks the slightest amount of equipment to defense any form of pollution. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] The coastal municipalities have nothing - I emphasize: nothing - to make a minimal intervention on their own coast. The damage to the fishing industry and its economic sectors, tourism and the environment along the 3,000 kilometres of coastline concerned over the next ten years is estimated at EUR 5 billion. In the Adriatic, there are about ten oil ports, 7 terminals, 3 pipelines, 13 refineries. The Mediterranean - listen! - is already the most contaminated sea in the world with hydrocarbons, with an average of 38 milligrams per cubic metre of water against the 3.8 (one tenth) of the Japanese system and 2.2 of the Gulf Stream. The Mediterranean is dotted with myriads of black spills. The risk maps are consequential and show that the Middle Adriatic already has the highest level of environmental risk from oil spilling into the sea, as Professor Massimo Civita told us in the Environment Commission. Tortuous (and also hypocritical) is the fact that our beautiful country... [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, you must allow me the time I lost in your speech earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u23	It has already been counted by the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u24	CASTALDI (M5S). I wanted to tell you that in the last fifteen months the oil companies have made a total of only a dozen new requests to look for hydrocarbons - it seems a bit strange - and they have even given up twenty-five permits to search for hydrocarbons already allocated and have asked to suspend about thirty of them. Do you know why? Because they no longer give money refunds that sound to those who simply seek new deposits. In Italy, in fact, up to 40% of the expenditure on geophysical surveys relating to the search for new deposits was reimbursed. Twisted and hypocritical is the fact that rating agencies, when granting concessions, increase ratings: for example, Israel's rating has now been increased from A to A+. So I ask everyone - forgive me - but for ordinary citizens, for everyone, what the hell do these drillings have strategically? Nothing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u25	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u26	CASTALDI (M5S). Yeah, I'm gonna finish. Given the undeniable complexity of the necessary interventions (in fact the motions have been presented by all political forces), I therefore ask everyone to vote on motion No 39 and to send away these strong powers which are delaying urgent decisions. The environmental issue can no longer be addressed by separating it from all economic, social and health policies. If there are people who do not consider the health of citizens and the protection of the environment (and I do not deceive myself about this), the evidence of economic, health and social impacts, such as the ILVA in Taranto, can be more convincing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. CASTALDI (M5S). I therefore ask everyone to support motion No 39. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Caleo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u27	I call the Divine Senator to explain motion No. 85.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u28	Madam President, all political forces have expressed an important sensitivity to this issue. We were all basically alarmed by the incident in April 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico, where we saw what happened in the event of an accident during the extraction phases, and for 106 days we had consecutive spills, they were estimated to be between 5 and 10 million liters per day of spilled hydrocarbons, and then we saw what happened on the coasts at the level of environmental damage. From there comes our concern: the Mediterranean is a closed sea that needs a common protection strategy, common rules for the exploitation of deposits. The Mediterranean accounts for 1% of the waters of the Earth's sphere, but 25% of total oil and gas traffic insists on them. This is an important concentration, of which we cannot fail to understand the strategy, because the exploitation of deposits for each nation is a source of supply. The environmental problem, however, must not be neglected or overlooked at all. We shall see how our motion No 85 will be composed together with the others, because, as we understand it, the Commission has drawn up a common agenda which will see almost all the various positions converge, because the sensitivity shown went in one direction. In our motion we initially wanted to save the prohibitions that had been inserted after that date for the areas considered the most sensitive, that is the Gulf of Naples, the Gulf of Salerno, the Egadi islands and, for our part, the Gulf of Venice, in the part that goes from the mouths of the Tagliamento to the mouth of the branch of Goro of the Po river. In 2010 the situation of the Middle-High Adriatic was as follows: it was an important reality, we saw and see 50 platforms operating on almost 940 wells for the extraction of gas, to which are concerned substantially all the coasts of Veneto, Emilia, Marche and in part also those of Abruzzo. A worrying phenomenon resulting from the extraction of hydrocarbons turns out to be the subsidity, that is that famous slow and progressive vertical lowering of the plane of the ground, that is caused by the lesser presence of interstitial fluids that remain in the ground after the extraction of oil or gas. Originally, therefore, we asked for the protection of the part of the Middle-High Adriatic for all these phenomena of subsidity, the maintenance of the prohibitions in the upper part of the Gulf of Venice and to guarantee to the maximum the marine habitat, possibly stopping any other type of new operations of mining activity. However, we will agree with the common agenda where things are re-examined by committing the Government: to review the discipline, holding firm those measures that had decreed the stop to the authorizations; to re-evaluate the whole of the authorizations; to predict that all the local authorities must be constantly informed and to take into account their opinions, for example in the environmental impact assessments; to continue to consider common strategy that of the defence of the Mediterranean, that is, of all the countries that face it (with the need for a strict regulation on the exploitation of all the submarine deposits); to keep high the regulatory framework in the matter of safety; to also verify the activities in progress (whether or not compatible with the addresses that we want to give). We have only two comments to make. While sharing the common agenda, one of the points of the mechanism calls for particular attention to be paid to the applicant's technical and economic capacities, including to deal with possible environmental damage compensation measures. This means that if further concessions were to be made, we would have to assess the applicant's technical and economic capacity, which is translated as the exclusivity of the giants, the big oil companies. An assessment of technical and economic capacity would mean, in fact, that only large companies could come to do this type of work. In the same way, increasing the royalties by 50% is not enough, but it is not enough: it should be established, as has been done on the Robin tax, that these should not then transfer on the finished product, because the company that finds itself additional burdens, but that can in any case transfer them on the next buyer, would end up increasing the industrial cost of the oil product and putting a tax, that is, a tax that weighs on the consumers. Stop these points, let us say that we support the positions of our motion but we also agree almost totally with the common agenda that the Environment Commission has drawn up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Marinello to explain motion No 90.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u29	Madam President, I would like to inform you that I intend to withdraw the motion at my first signature. I also say that I have tabled an agenda on the whole issue, which has also been signed by colleagues from other political groups. I would like to explain this, but I believe that I must do so not at this stage but after the discussion of the motions put forward by my fellow Members has been completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u30	As you think, Senator Marinello. However, the illustration must be done at this stage; therefore, now or at the end of the illustration of the other motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u31	MARINELLO (NCD). In my opinion, it would be better to do so in the end, given that the agenda is, in a certain way, the work that has been done in the Environment Commission over the last few months and is somewhat a corollary of a series of hearings and activities that we have carried out. As a result, it seems to me that it is more appropriate at this stage to listen to colleagues who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u32	Thank you, Senator Marinello. He will then speak at the end of the illustration of all the motions. I call Senator Caleo to explain motion 91.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u33	Madam President, I shall withdraw Amendment No 91, which sees me as the first signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u34	I call Senator Cervellini to explain motion No 92.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u35	Madam President, senators and senators, while in our country there is a clear reversal of the trend in oil consumption, due to the economic crisis but also due to the increasing contribution of renewable energies, the pressure of companies operating in the sector to obtain oil exploration, research and extraction concessions, both on land and in front of our coasts is not reduced. A real race in black gold, even in the face of the small quantities of product at stake, with demands that concern to date a territorial and marine surface of equivalent size to Sardinia. The state of the pending requests, based on what was reported in the dossier of the Legambiente association presented last July, is as follows: seven requests for the cultivation of new deposits, for a total of 732 square kilometers identified, which would add to the 1,786 square kilometers on which the active platforms already insist; fourteen active research permits for a total of 6,371 square kilometers, with the last conferred in March 2013 to Petroceltic Italy off the coast of Abruzzo; thirty-two requests for search for hydrocarbons, for a total of 15,574 square kilometers of sea, not yet released, but waiting for evaluation and authorization by the Ministries of the environment and economic development. According to estimates disseminated by the Ministry of Economic Development itself, also reaching the objectives set by the National Energy Strategy, which provides for an increase of 148% in the annual production of national crude oil, thus bringing the extraction of oil from the current 5 million tons to more than 12 million tons, the total reserves (in the sea and in the Italian subsoil) would be exhausted in little more than ten years, with a certainly not decisive contribution to the national energy budget. A context of indispensable evaluation of costs and benefits requires, first, to relate these production estimates to the risks posed by research and extraction of hydrocarbons for the Mediterranean ecosystem and for the economic activities of our country more directly related to the quality of coastal areas and marine waters. The Mediterranean is a semi-closed basin, which has a very slow exchange of water and is affected by 25% of the world's oil and gas traffic, only a third of which is destined for the consumption of the coastal countries, already today in the presence of a very high density of pelagic tar, equal to 38 milligrams per square metre, almost four times higher than that of the Sargassi Sea, which is positioned at the second step of this classification. All this against a very high marine biodiversity, with peaks of exceptional value, with a tourism that affects for 8% the national GDP, strongly characterized by the coastal activities, in a country with about 16 million stable residents near the coasts and with the second European fleet, in terms of the number of boats, for professional fishing. These are data that should reflect on the devastating impact on marine ecosystems, with permanent toxicity effects, on the tourism and fisheries economy and on the quality of life of the population established in coastal areas in the face of a major accident in oilfield cultivation activities. Without considering the impact of the preparatory activities on extraction, with an estimate, taken from the study carried out by the GEASAMP consortium (Joint group of experts on the scientific aspects of marine environmental protection) - involving, among others, the World Health Organisation - a spill varying from 30 to 120 tonnes of toxic substances resulting from the normal operation of an exploratory well. In order to understand more deeply the reasons for this abnormal push to grant areas for the search for hydrocarbons in Italy and its territorial waters, it is necessary to reconstruct the tax framework in which these activities move, to date, forming a complex of advantages and exemptions that does not have equal in the world. Legislative Decree No 625 of 25 November 1996 and subsequent amendments and additions provide for total exemptions from the tax regime for the first 25 million tons of cubic metres of gas and 20,000 tons of oil produced annually on land, increased respectively to 80 million and 50,000 if produced at sea. The annual fees for the areas granted are still fixed at absolutely derisory amounts and the rate applied to the product is 10% on land extractions and 7% for liquid hydrocarbons extracted from the sea, far below the values applied in all producing countries starting from a minimum of 20%. A particularly favourable regime, therefore, which has not been substantially affected by the regulatory intervention provided for by Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, which introduced the important prohibition to carry out oil research in marine areas in any protected capacity and within 12 miles of the coastline and the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment, but at the same time frustrating the effectiveness of these requirements with some substantial derogations. The reference is, in particular, to the provisions for the granting procedures in progress, which are saved even if located within 12 miles, and for the activities authorised by the territorial supervisory offices of the National Oil and Gas Mining Office which are removed from the EIA obligation. The situation described therefore makes it necessary and urgent for a new regulatory action, which we have repeatedly called for in the Commissions of merit and in this House, in the direction already undertaken by the new European Directive No 30 of 2013 aimed, among other things, at strengthening the environmental safety conditions of operations at sea. With our motion we want to outline clearly the guidelines for the necessary legislative intervention and the commitment that the Government must make in this matter. In particular, it is necessary to intervene on Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, establishing that the scope of the 12 miles subject to a prohibition of concession in whatever way is considered from the basic lines and not from the lines of coast, taking into account that only with such modification it is correctly assumed, as reference for the calculation, the limit that excludes gulfs and coves. The 12-mile concession ban must also be applied to the procedures under investigation on the date of entry into force of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012 and any possibility of derogation from the obligation to submit the granting procedures for exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons at sea to the environmental impact assessment. We also call for urgent consideration to be given to the tax treatment of oil and gas exploration activities. In particular, it is necessary to significantly increase the concession fees for the areas, to adjust the rate paid on the product to levels at least comparable to the levy levied on international markets and to abolish the tax exemptions in force on the product extracted annually, both on land and at sea. A clear address on the tax treatment of these activities is already contained in the motion approved by 13a. Standing Commission, where there is a need to increase the expected royalties for extraction activities by 50%. Finally, the motion tabled by our Group calls for a clear commitment by the Government to protect marine protected areas and areas for finding coastal and marine parks. These are the most valuable areas for the protection of the biodiversity of our marine ecosystem that must be excluded in advance from any research and extraction activity that could irreversibly compromise its characteristics. I conclude by saying that this yes would be a forward-looking policy, economically effective - we think first and foremost of tourism and recreational boating - and absolutely compatible on the environmental level. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u36	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Via Poseidon" in Rome, present in the gallery, to which we welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u37	I would like to inform you that the G1 and G2 agendas have been presented, which have already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Scilipoti to explain the G1 agenda. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u38	Madam President, having taken stock of the two illustrations made by my colleagues from SEL and the 5 Star Movement, and precisely to reinforce some of their reflections, I have allowed myself to present an agenda that focuses mainly on the special mud material that is used to cool the chisel that removes rock debris when drilling. I therefore ask the representative of the Government present in the Chamber: what is the end of that mud material after it has been used for cooling, once it has reached the surface? I have been told by some that one side of it would be reused, while on another side it is not theoretically known what is, or should be, its use. Someone else told me that said material would be separated and then put in the truck to be sorted in the best way possible. With my agenda, then, I ask the Government to commit itself to requesting, before granting permission for drilling operations, what is the end of the material in question that is being used and the water that is being separated from oil, being highly toxic. I am convinced that the companies dealing with drilling are very serious and do not disperse that water into the sea or land, but it is collected and then used properly. With my agenda, I therefore call for greater attention to be paid to this matter and for the commitment of those who will be allowed to do research on that part of the sea or territory from which oil is extracted, which is necessary as our fuel but which is risky for human health, to be taken in advance of the approval of the drilling project. Everything has a price and a limit and life must be protected first of all. Therefore, I ask the Government to accept this agenda with the warning made, so that greater security can be guaranteed in the interests of the community and the territory. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u39	I call Senator Marinello to explain the G2 agenda. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u40	Madam President, I would like to begin by reminding the House of one fundamental fact: since June last year, the Environment Commission has been working on a deal assigned to it concerning the whole issue. An extremely serious investigation was carried out in the context of that assigned affair. Tens of stakeholders have been audited, such as the Regions most involved in research, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons, both liquid and gaseous; the local authorities concerned; a number of productive categories - I am thinking of those most interested in tourism, in particular Federalberghi - and involved in all the activities that develop in the sea, with particular reference to the most significant ones that represent the world of fishing in Italy. Representatives of Confindustria, Asso Petroli and those companies most interested in the research and cultivation of hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean Sea and on the Italian territory, and environmental associations, have also been audited. There have obviously been institutional audits, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, MISE, research bodies, with particular reference to the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, ISPRA and CNR. Following this intensive investigation, the Commission voted, moreover, by a very large majority, a resolution which has somewhat summed up the work carried out, but which above all intended to provide a series of indications and commitments to the Government. Furthermore, I would like to remind the House that that resolution was actually voted in the presence, and also with the sharing of the Government, represented authoritatively by a Undersecretary for the Environment and also by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Development, who on that occasion was Deputy Minister De Vincenti. That is why a number of motions are being withdrawn today, which are replaced by an agenda signed by me, as President of the Environment Commission, but also by the Heads of Party Groups supporting the majority of the Government. In this regard, I also urge the members of the opposition parties to carefully assess the content of the G2 agenda, in order to reach a subscription and, in any case, a sharing at the time of their explanation of vote and especially at the time of the explanation of the vote. Basically, we ask the Government, beyond the premises that are obviously quite obvious, to give greater attention to the whole issue. This attention must be particularly focused on a real suspension, and therefore a moratorium, of all the activities that develop within the 12 miles of the sea line from the coast. Within these 12 miles all concessionary activities relating to the research and extraction of liquid hydrocarbons must be suspended. Above all, we call for greater involvement and involvement of communities, which will have a role to play, because they will have to participate directly in all processes and all authorisation processes, intervening in the very delicate phase of environmental impact assessment. We have also supported the need for a decisive role of research institutes, in particular ISPRA, CNR and the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, which must intervene in order to establish the possible risks and the probability of these risks on certain activities, also because we reaffirm that, in a number of areas of high and significant seismic, volcanic or tectonic risk, it is clear that such activities cannot and must not be carried out. Finally, we have also taken care of the economic aspect, with an increase in royalties which, compared to the current quota, can be increased to 50%, bearing in mind the margins of productivity and profitability of the plants. Another rather salient point is to strongly reiterate a number of economic assessments that must be carried out. It is clear that, where there are important economic activities, such as the tourist activities related to our landscape, our history, our culture and archaeological heritage, in the economic evaluation we must also bear in mind these components that, in my opinion, represent an indispensable value for our country, and that we have the duty to protect. Finally, there are a number of assessments that take food resources into account, because it is true that energy resources are strategic resources but also food resources are. In the Mediterranean Sea there are important food stocks, which have valuable areas and areas of repopulation, and it is clear that there must be particular attention to those areas. It must be avoided that in areas of repopulation or which are declared as such by research institutes, devastating operations can be carried out; in any case, those who undertake such activities must assume the responsibilities and also the burdens of compensation measures. Precisely for this reason, we have included another fundamental element, namely a serious assessment of the assets by the proposers, because the matter is delicate and cannot be entrusted to adventurers and speculators. These are the main points on the G2 agenda. There are others that I do not want to illustrate briefly. I think it is absolutely right for the Senate to vote in favour, but it is even more necessary for the Government to pay great attention. This matter cannot be dealt with solely by means of a criterion of an economic nature, because the assessment must be comprehensive. Like the 13th Permanent Commission of the Senate, we have carried out this work which today comes to an end. For us, however, all this represents a stage; we will always keep our attention very high and we will be ready to intervene at any time and anywhere to protect the environment, biodiversity and what - in our opinion - is precisely the economicity of these operations (which are very often not economic and become speculative). For these reasons, I entrust to the evaluation of the Senate Assembly the agenda G2, requesting a favourable vote, as broad as possible. ( [[Applause from the NCD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u41	I declare the debate open.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u44	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that in the 13th standing Commission, as the M5S Group, we have tabled a motion for a minority resolution which commits the Government more stringently. I would ask you to be able to at least illustrate the device. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm sorry, not at this stage. It is a Commission document, and we are discussing the motions put forward in this House. NUGNES (M5S). So, I can leave it to the record, like Senator Marinello did. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You may table an agenda and enter at the end of the debate, but the explanation has now been exhausted and we are in the process of discussing it. NUGNES (M5S). Okay. I would therefore like to announce the presentation of an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u45	Madam President, I believe that the G2 agenda, which has been hesitated in 13th The Commission has been signed by the majority party leaders and represents a very positive and acceptable synthesis of a very laborious work carried out in our Commission over the last few months. As Senator Marinello has already pointed out, we have been very careful in the Commission and have audited various representatives of stakeholders. Therefore, I believe that the G2 agenda represents an admirable convergence between the indisputable need for the supply of hydrocarbons, especially where these activities have already been authorised and must continue, and the safeguarding of certain aspects, especially from the environmental point of view, which are particularly close to our heart. The peculiarity of the Mediterranean Sea has already been highlighted, in this case of the Adriatic Sea in particular: these are small basins that represent only 1% as a mirror of water compared to all the seas of the world, but that are constantly sailed by ships that transport oil and hydrocarbons and that have probably in the past been the subject of invasive and too easy concessions for drilling. The system of research and exploitation of marine resources and hydrocarbons varies according to the maritime areas in which these resources are located, beyond the territorial sea. In the continental shelf, in the exclusive economic zone, it is always up to the coastal state to exercise its functional sovereign powers in the exploration and exploitation of mineral resources and hydrocarbons. Italy is particularly involved, having 7,500 kilometres of coastline overlooking the Mediterranean sea. But our country is already equipped with one of the strictest regulations, at international level, and is strong of a long sectoral experience characterized by high safety standards in offshore activities. In addition, Italy is applying as a mediator in relations with countries not belonging to the European Union, but members of the Barcelona Convention, an instrument of international cooperation of a regional nature for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea. The vastness and articulation of the international regulatory framework applicable to the exploration and exploitation of offshore hydrocarbons underline the importance of the role that we are all called upon to play today. From these considerations derives the obvious and absolute necessity for Italy to proceed carefully with respect to the authorizations of new drillings. On the G2 agenda, we have laid down, as it were, prescriptions and recommendations which I believe can only be shared. Therefore, since I believe that good work has been done today by our Commission, I call on my colleagues to approve the G2 agenda, which has just been announced by President Marinello. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u46	Madam President, the arrival in this House of various motions on the subject of the opportunity of all the activities that revolve around the cultivation of hydrocarbons off the Italian coast - although with different approaches and sensitivities - is already a small achievement. The shared agenda is proof of this and, without a doubt, it is a sign of maturity on the part of Parliament, which intends to deal decisively and - I hope - finally with an economic and environmental issue which has so far left a little on the margins of institutional initiatives. It is certainly a delicate subject that in the last two years has assumed some aspects of greater criticality through the well-known normative news, cited in all the motions, which led to article 35 of Decree-Law 22 June 2012, n. 83, converted, with modifications, by law 7 August 2012, n. 134. By amending Article 6, paragraph 17, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, that is, the Environmental Code, we know that this rule provides for the prohibition of research activities, exploration, as well as the cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea, clarifying also the distance from the coasts. But the critical issue lies in the derogations provided for in the same rule, which is without prejudice to the granting procedures in progress and the subsequent and related ones, as well as the effectiveness of the licences already issued, also for the purposes of carrying out research, development and cultivation activities. So, on the one hand, there has been a ban on certain clear and peremptory aspects, but next to this a series of faults have been outlined equally clearly within which the problem materializes concretely. Over the last two years, there have been many acts of inspection union, also filed by me. There have been comparisons with the Government and proposals for legislative amendments, but they have not produced the desired results. This rule has in fact legitimized a speculative dynamic by the entrepreneurial and industrial subjects involved, also because the major business related to such dynamics - as I will have the opportunity to explain - certainly does not fit in the small amounts of recovered fuel material, but in the plants themselves, structures and offshore platforms, which have literally proliferated off our coasts. I believe that this is an indispensable point from which to start with any reasoning. According to the dossier of the WWF Italy "Trivelle in vista - The updated map of the risk offshore platforms in the Italian seas ", there would be 67 cultivation projects in our seas. In the same dossier it is pointed out that 90% of the productions at sea concern gas (with 44 projects) and that 85% of the cultivations concern the areas of the medium and high Adriatic. Therefore, there is often talk of an Adriatic risk associated with such operations. To this scenario is added the provisions of the Ministerial Decree 9 August 2013, which has identified a new area open to exploration and research, and in the future to the cultivation, to the west of Sardinia in the Balearic Sea, a larger area of Corsica. This indicates that the oil ambitions on Italian territory do not seem destined to be reduced. It is difficult to understand the strategic value of these operations, considering among other things the small amount of oil resources in our seas. And if we really want to put ourselves on the side of the hard supporters of oil Italy, it is really hard to understand where the economic advantages for our country lie. If reference is made to the royalties on extraction concessions, compared to those in Norway which amount to 80% or those in Libya that amount to 90%, there is some doubt. Ours are between 7% and 10%, but let's also add that the 27 projects currently underway do not exceed the franchise and are therefore exempt from royalty payments. What are we talking about? So, if the central state and local communities do not benefit from mining and at the same time pay the environmental costs, where should we track them? The small economic return of these operations is certainly not the main problem, but it helps us to understand within which broader scenario the whole issue is placed. The regulatory framework within which the extraction and drilling activity is carried out has many shortcomings, especially on the side of controls and doubts of responsibility in case of possible environmental damage. The Mediterranean is not the Atlantic Ocean: it is a closed sea, with a limited surface and characterized by a territorial peculiarity (number of islands, shallow seabeds and corals) that alone should exorcise any speculative hypothesis even merely exploratory. Added to this is the fact that, given its strategic character, it is burdened by the 25% transit of world oil traffic, boasting the primacy by the concentration of tar in the open sea: 38 milligrams per square metre. It is worth noting that, according to the data submitted by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology and the National Research Council during a hearing at the 13th The Senate Commission, an effective reopening of drilling and exploratory procedures for oil research would cause inestimable environmental damage, far from determining the achievement of significant energy objectives. The risk should be traced back to the deleterious impact on marine flora and fauna, on the state of the water and, consequently, on tourism, which is - I repeat - one of the main activities of coastal areas. These criticalities acquire an even more significant importance in the light of some incidents such as that occurred in Taranto. In fact - it is worth remembering - in July 2013 was reported the pouring into the sea of a high quantity of semi-refined product, coming from the refinery ENI of Taranto, incident that would have been caused by a blackout occurred in the refinery. Beyond the technical dynamics that have led to the spill, in an area already largely vexed from the environmental point of view, the element on which it is worth dwelling is the high risk that underlies operations of this type, even in the presence of presumed safety standards. In this regard, let us not forget that Italy, despite previous commitments, has not yet ratified the so-called offshore protocol for the protection of the Mediterranean against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, which, in my opinion, is an issue absolutely not to be overlooked. In fact, in 2011, with a resolution of the 13th Commission, the Government undertook to ratify this protocol, ensuring that its implementation was recognised as a priority in the activities of the Barcelona Convention for the two-year period 2012-2013. In the same resolution, the Government undertook to act in the various international fora for the modification of the legal regime of responsibilities for polluting spills at sea, through the co-responsibility of the companies and companies involved. Unfortunately, nothing seems to have evolved from this point of view at the moment, and we know very well that the implementation of such a timely international framework would be an indispensable prerequisite for national regulatory adjustment. With this very awareness, the Commission 13a, in recent months, has started an important work of investigation and deepening, aimed at understanding the relationship between the costs and benefits of such planning. Because it's exactly between this balance of factors... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Di Biagio. DI BIAGIO (PI). Let me finish, Madam President: I think I have one minute left. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, actually, he's only got a few seconds left. DI BIAGIO (PI). Then I will finish here, asking for permission to leave the rest of my speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u47	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly complaining about the progressive deterioration of our parliamentary prerogatives in relation to the long-standing issue of the abuse of the decree of urgency by governments, neglecting the equally significant - and perhaps even more accident - influence on the work of Parliament by lobbyists and multinationals. With regard to this second aspect, I believe that today's sitting has a significant political significance: this House has the opportunity to show that good policy is still capable of representing a valid bulwark against the profits of the great oil multinationals, who are now protagonists of a barbaric aggression of the Italian coasts, thanks to a well-tested system organized on companies and consortia with low social capital, especially the British, Canadian and Scottish. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a real opportunity to limit the business arising from prospecting activities. Today your fake good intentions must leave room for concrete acts: the time of chatter is over, the country asks for it to be over. Our motion has been scheduled several times, thanks to the constant pressing demands of the citizens. Colleagues, you have all received their many emails since Christmas, and this is the right opportunity to move on to the facts and the opportunity to demonstrate consistency with participation in events and meetings on the territories. With this text it is intended to commit the Government to urgently modify article 6 paragraph 17 of Legislative Decree no. 152, in order to restore the prohibition of activities of research, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons within 12 miles from the coast, also for the enabling titles and the granting procedures in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree no. 128 of 2010. On this issue, in addition to addressing a question to the Ministers for Economic Development and the Environment that I have never had an answer to, I also presented, on 10 April 2013, a draft law, No 451, much appreciated also by the specialized online magazine "www.ReteAmbiente.it" with the aim to stop the environmental disaster and to safeguard the coastal areas already damaged by 9 platforms and 68 wells for 10.266 square kilometers and threatened by 34 requests for research and 3 surveys aimed at intervening on another 17.644 square kilometers. On the subject and for the same purpose, legislative proposals have been filed in both branches of Parliament. For example, my colleague Pezzopane of the Democratic Party, forced by the pressure of the Abruzzo public opinion, presented, immediately after I signed, the bill No 460, an apparent sign, of a common will to address and resolve the problem. With our motion, we are now calling for a commitment from the Government to initiate the examination of these texts as soon as possible. Unfortunately, Abruzzo, as I said earlier, is also part of the so-called map of Italy drilled. The aggression of the oil lobby to our coasts has been facilitated by the provisions introduced by decree-law n. 83 of 2012 of the Government Monti, better known as decree Development Italy, which has safeguarded the licenses and concessions issued before the enactment of legislative decree n. 128 of 2010, with which the former minister of the environment Prestigiacomo imposed, following the oil disaster occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, the prohibition to make marine explorations in protected areas. Our motion, ladies and gentlemen, is that of the citizens, of the associations and of the many committees, to which we are proud to give a voice in this House. We cannot accept any measure that is only suspensive, both of the authorization procedures, and of the mining activities, and we will not fail to inform every citizen if he intervenes. We are also opposed to unconstitutional measures and agendas, which involve only passive involvement of local authorities. The constitutional principle of loyal cooperation cannot be mixed with a mere acquisition of non-binding opinions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u51	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I have asked to speak on the order of business because I think it is appropriate for this House to stop, even for a few seconds, on the news - which I am now learning from the press agencies and which is confirmed to me - that this night in Turin a seat of the Democratic Party has been vandalized and on the walls have appeared singing scripts to the "No TAV". I would like to say three very simple things about this. Meanwhile, the Democratic Party will not be labelled by anyone and will continue to make its policy whatever kind of pressure comes to it. Then, I ask the government, since such incidents have been repeated for many months now, a particular vigilance. A large party represented in Parliament, which makes democratic policies, has the right to be defended in its seats, where it meets, in which it works and in which it makes politics. Finally, and I close, these are not episodes in which political opinions are manifested and are not even episodes of political hooliganism. They are episodes of pure squadrismo and, as such, must be defined and denounced. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVIIe groups of Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u52	We take note of the serious news. Let us not open a debate at this stage. The Minister of the Interior will then report on this criminal act.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u53	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u54	Madam President, I take the opportunity to express my solidarity with the Democratic Party, because opinions may be different, but violence and squadrism must never be justified. [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Puppato]] The Senate Environment Commission, after extensive study, approved by a large majority a motion on offshore drilling for the research and cultivation of hydrocarbon deposits. This motion resulted in the G2 agenda that we are presenting today, which is shared by the majority groups. In its most qualifying point, it asks the Government to suspend the granting of permits for oil extraction within territorial waters, i.e. in the area where there is full national sovereignty, in the more than transposition of Directive 2013/30/EU of 12 June 2013 on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations, amending Directive 2004/35/EU. On the other hand, the agenda does not oppose the cultivation of deposits of gaseous hydrocarbons, i.e. methane, but includes a series of precautions. More generally, it focuses on principles of caution and risk compensation in the research and cultivation of hydrocarbons at sea. The agenda calls on the Government to pay particular attention, in transposing the above-mentioned Directive, to the assessment of the technical and economic capacities of those who require concessions, also in order to deal with possible measures to compensate for environmental damage; to increase the rates of royalties to 50% for new cultivation concessions compared to those currently in force; to ensure that part of the royalties are directed to the monitoring and combating of marine pollution and of the activities of surveillance and control of safety, including environmental, of research and cultivation facilities at sea; to provide for the suspension of activities in areas of significant seismic, volcanic, tectonic and subsidious risk (particularly important with regard to the High Adriatic), as indicated by scientific support preventive investigations carried out by the research bodies INGV, ISPRA and CNR; to provide for the blocking of activities in progress and the granting of future authorisations provided for in areas of particular fish repopulation, as well as duly indicated by scientific preventive surveys of support carried out by the aforementioned research bodies. Finally, it calls for preventive analysis of costs and benefits in relation to future exploratory activities, so not only those of a direct extraction type, to be authorised in areas of particular tourist and economic value. Other qualifying items on the agenda require the Government to undertake concerted actions with the other Mediterranean countries, in particular those overlooking the Adriatic, in order to implement prudential measures for the cultivation of hydrocarbons also in their territorial waters and in international waters. Madam President, the Commission's work has been complex, with numerous hearings and an articulated debate. The need to find a balance between the needs of tourist operators, fishermen and coastal populations was immediately evident (so even one accident with a major spill of liquid hydrocarbons would be disastrous, especially in closed seas such as the Adriatic), the opportunity to increase the production of national energy sources and, finally, the interests of an important sector of the national industry operating in the offshore of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, especially abroad, with high technological excellence. The offshore extraction of methane gas is much less risky than that of oil, which, however, in the case of the Italian seas, seems to be of poor quality and of low quantity. The suspension of the extraction of liquid hydrocarbons in territorial waters, the elements of prudence for the cultivation of gaseous hydrocarbons and the consultation with the other Mediterranean coastal countries can cancel the risks associated with the offshore extraction of oil, drastically lowering those related to the extraction of methane. The energy future of our country will have to be based less and less on hydrocarbons and more and more on renewable energies, also in order to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and pollution from particulates. However, even for long years methane will be an indispensable source for direct domestic use, automotive and flexible production of electricity. The agenda that we are preparing to vote on and to which Civic Choice gives its strong support establishes a good balance between environmental protection, guarantee for the tourist and fishing sectors, national energy needs, strongly engaging the Government on these issues. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about exploration at sea, the search for hydrocarbons and drilling, I believe that we should recall the terrible images of that environmental disaster, which was the so-called black tide, which occurred a few years ago in the Gulf of Mexico, and which should have represented a very strong warning for anyone to insist on policies to protect our seas against the mining industry. It is not consistent that Italy speaks of green economy, which focuses on the production of renewable energy, and instead we find ourselves faced with the ever-present danger that an environmental matrix vital for us as the sea is sold out, with good peace of commitment to renewables. Colleagues, this has been said several times. We all know how the Mediterranean Sea represents a fragile ecosystem, where the replacement is extremely slow due to its semi-closed sea nature: therefore we need a careful reflection and a greater weighting on the dangers that any research permit can represent. In the 13th Commission we have discussed this subject so much, we have heard and learned that the oil extracted in the Mediterranean is not of extraordinary quality and, probably, a further reflection must be made on the usefulness of extracting it. Personally, I think that in order to cope with the urgency it is necessary in the meantime that on which we have all been quite in agreement, with the appropriate distinction, that is, to suspend the new activities of cultivation of hydrocarbons within 12 miles from the coastline and in marine protected areas, certainly increase the royalties by at least 50% compared to the current ones, in order to guarantee appropriate compensatory measures and, above all (third but not least), increase the safety standards in order to avoid the occurrence of environmental disasters, and therefore increase the controls of the state authority. In the event of an environmental disaster in the Mediterranean there would be no money or compensatory measures that could alleviate the damage to the ecosystem, our environment, our tourism, our economy: in short, there would be no funds that could compensate for such a disaster. That is why a great deal of attention must be paid. It will be necessary to adopt a prognostic judgment on what can be concretely the scenario of every future research permit, therefore, taking into account all the characteristics of the site, possible interferences, all the most advanced geological knowledge to exclude the hypothesis of environmental pollution, effectively involving local institutions and coastal communities. However, upstream and beyond the specific discussions, our country needs to deepen the theme of energy policy and development; in the same way, we need to understand, for example, what direction this Government wants to go, because it is our nation that must choose. If our choice is that of sustainability, of the safeguarding of environmental matrixes, of a significant control for the health of the Planet and of a serious turn on renewables, then the decisions can only be different from the idea of drilling. Energy policies - as we know - are at the root of the development or decline of every civilization. I hope that in the not distant future Italy will have the strength to make courageous choices that will progressively free it from the energy slavery of dependence on fossils to rely on natural energy resources: the sun, the wind, the sea and the warmth of the earth. In fact, all this fits perfectly - let us not forget - with our true vocation, which is agriculture, which are cultural goods, environmental goods and tourism linked to them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u57	Madam President, we are debating a number of motions, and a position on the question of the ability to understand what the problem is even for those who listen to us is a duty. 11:22 a.m. (continued COUNCIL). The Mediterranean represents an area in which the traffic and refining of oil are intense. However, it is also an area that can boast a very important biodiversity. More than 20 states and more than 400 million inhabitants face this sea, of which some 35% live on coastal areas. On the coast there are 584 cities, 750 tourist ports (286 are commercial ones); we have important gas production plants (about 13), and 180 thermal power plants. They travel around this sea about 2000 ferries, 1,500 cargo, 2,000 new commercial ships, of which 30 tankers. What do I mean by that? That, in addition to the pollution and the pouring into the sea of sewage, hydrocarbons, industrial waste that already come from this urbanization of the coasts, is added also the pollution deriving from the extraction of hydrocarbons and its transport. In the Adriatic Sea there were about 27 serious accidents, clearly neglecting those less important or of lighter magnitude. Italy has the primacy of oil spilled in the main accidents (about 162,000 tons). If you calculate that there is Turkey in second place with 50 000 and Lebanon in third place with 29 000 tonnes, I believe, Mr President, that these are data that must make us think. I would like to make an important point: the decision to present a motion on the subject of oil and gas research and cultivation bears witness to the importance of the North League's concern for these issues, on which, moreover, it has always expressed a keen interest. The parliamentary debate therefore offers today to our Group, but in general to all the Groups, the opportunity to reaffirm the opposition to the release of new concessions for the cultivation of hydrocarbons in the upper Adriatic, in line with the provisions of the current legislation. I believe that today's debate was also a little urged by the very serious incident at the British Petroleum Marine Platform, which devastated the Gulf of Mexico with the destruction of valuable marine environments off the coast of the United States. It was precisely this accident that prompted Italy to adopt a series of restrictions on the exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons in Italian marine waters. The government of the time, within the framework of the legislative initiatives undertaken, did without prejudice to the prohibitions provided for in Articles 4, 6 and 9 of Law No. 9 of 1991, thus showing particular attention to the waters of the Middle-High Adriatic, to which our concern is addressed in particular. First we talked about the Mediterranean; now, by shrinking the visual cone a little, we focus on the Adriatic which, in some ways, presents an even more complex situation as a rather 'firm sea. The reference is, above all, to the Gulf of Venice, in the stretch of sea between the parallel passing through the mouth of the Tagliamento river and the parallel passing through the mouth of the Goro branch of the Po river, notoriously affected by a serious process of subsidity of the coasts. In our country the number of oil extraction platforms off the coast has increased considerably in recent years, also affecting marine areas already subjected to severe environmental stress. The entire Adriatic Sea is increasingly the subject of the economic interests of oil companies all over the world, so much so that only in the area of the Middle-High Adriatic, already in 2010, were about 50 platforms operating, as well as about 940 wells for the extraction of gas, mainly in front of the Venetian, Emilian, Marche and Abruzzo coasts. In Italy, in the short term, many other platforms could become operational for the extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits with a depth comparable to that of the British Petroleum platform, which I mentioned earlier. The mining activity could irreversibly compromise our territory, as it is certainly the risk associated with worrying phenomena of subsidity, which risk to invest in an unpredictable wide portions of territory, close to the coasts of Veneto and Emilia-Romagna. The large gas extraction in the mid-Adriatic region, which is approximately 30 billion cubic metres per year, also results in significant marine pollution, resulting in a ban on bathing in the vicinity of the plants, and a potential increase in Telluric risk. Mr President, a thought should then be given to the cost-effectiveness of the extractions at sea. There has been talk of 30 billion cubic metres of methane, a figure that can be considered at the same time important as little importance in the cost-benefit ratio. It corresponds, in fact, to about six months of Italian energy consumption, even if it remains to be understood how much will be worth the investments that will have to be supported (it is spoken of about 670 million euros) and what the extraction time will be (it could be of twenty years). In view of this, I believe that the cost-benefit ratio is even in deficit. Veneto is one of the regions that make the most contribution to the country in terms of energy supply. With the offshore regasifier off Porto Viro, the Region will cover 17 percent of the national needs, making available, in just five years of operation, a quantity of gas equal to that which would be piercing the deposits present on its coasts. At this point, Mr President, I would like to make a point. While on the Italian coasts we are trying to understand how to protect the environment and tourism, on the other side of the Adriatic, Croatia is thinking in the perspective of an extension of its drilling for oil and gas extraction, without taking care of and worrying about what the European directives are. It is true that since September 2013 a Norwegian company has been scanning the seabed on an area of 12,000 square kilometers, always applying the emission system every ten seconds of a wall of sound waves from 240-260 decibels, therefore a system that does not comply with the European directives. It is useless, therefore, that in Italy we become crazy to apply the various regulations carefully, when then other countries avoid with an incredible nonchalance the Community directives. In the light of these considerations, the Lega Nord Group, with the presentation of motion 1-00085, intends to confirm its commitment to protect the Venetian coasts and, more generally, the upper Adriatic, asking in particular the Government to ensure the maintenance of the prohibitions imposed by Law No. 9 of 1991 to protect the waters of the Gulf of Venice. Moreover, the fact that all the political components have embraced this debate and the problem in question offers the possibility of doing a good job to protect a particularly delicate sea, placing our country in a condition of discreet serenity about its future exploitation, a topic that is also dear to the Commission industry, commerce and tourism to which I belong. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u58	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u59	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank President Marinello and the entire Senate Environment Commission for the great work that has been done on this subject, a subject which is certainly difficult, like all those concerning the environment and the protection of public health. I share the fact that these are terrible images of environmental disasters, which I have heard a great deal of talk about here. However, I would like to say that, in my personal opinion, they are also terrible images of the competitiveness of our companies, on which the cost of energy weighs much more heavily than international competitors. These are terrible images also those that illustrious international newspapers damage Italy, described as a country in which investments are not recommended, because the political risk that characterizes it is equal to that of the regions of Africa and of some countries of South America, as can be read directly. And they are also terrible images of those of which President Zanda spoke, that is, of the very strong resistance that is opposed to the great infrastructural works. The TAV is that of which he spoke, but they are frequent images that we record whenever we talk about pipelines or pipelines: all works that would not only allow the modernization of our country, but would also give the Italian companies the possibility to be competitive in terms of costs and to overcome the problems due to the infrastructural gap. I therefore welcome the efforts made by the Environment Commission, and above all I welcome the final point of the G2 agenda, at the first signature of President Marinello, who I particularly agree with because he commits the Government to carry out a prior analysis of the costs and benefits in relation to future exploratory activities to be authorised in areas of particular tourist and economic value. In my opinion, this indication provides the method that should accompany the important and decisive choices that affect the sector, like all others that involve such important infrastructure interventions: I am referring to a preventive and serious analysis of costs and benefits. While it is true that, with regard to the environment and public safety, Nimby syndrome is the one about which we talk more about in newspapers and television broadcasts (i.e. the opposition of the population to have at home, in their own garden, what they think can be dangerous interventions for the environment and public health) I would like, that we talk about - as should be correct and as is stated on the agenda - also the benefits of these investments, in terms of work, tax revenues and the competitiveness of our companies. I therefore hope that the method of evaluation will be the one indicated on the agenda whenever these issues are discussed. I would like to make one final point on a very particular issue. The agenda shows, as is right, the support of research bodies: to make a serious analysis of the costs in terms of environment, health and risk, the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, the Higher Institute for Environmental Promotion and Research and the National Research Council are involved. I ask the Undersecretary Vicari whether it is possible to evaluate the inclusion of another very important research body: the OGS, that is the National Institute of Oceanography and Experimental Geophysics, also an entity with legal personality under public law. I do not understand why it has not been included: and I would ask you to consider the possibility that it is among the institutions that contribute to the analysis of costs, and I hope also of the benefits of these investments. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u60	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Castaldi because his motion has the merit of turning the spotlight on a subject worthy of attention by all the members of this House. As already widely stated, the objective pursued by Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012 was to modify the discipline of research activities, exploration activities and the cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea, setting a single band of respect for the performance of such activities at sea, that is 12 miles from the coast lines and the outer perimeter of marine and coastal protected areas, for any new activity of prospecting, research and cultivation. However, the prohibition, with regard to the above activities, within the perimeter of marine and coastal areas in any protected capacity has remained unchanged. It is not difficult to understand how Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012 introduced a rule that safeguards the already issued licences and the granting procedures in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree No 128 of 2010, decree that in fact had blocked all requests for oil extraction in sea areas placed within 12 nautical miles from the outer perimeter of marine and coastal protected areas. Even the less experienced are now able to glimpse the damage, or at least the danger of damage, that the research activities, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons bring to the marine ecosystem. In fact, the precautionary principle was the leitmotif of environmental associations that have so far waged serious battles to protect environmental interests. It is in the eyes of all that, as a result of the provisions mentioned, the oil companies are given the opportunity to increase the exploitation of oil deposits in the waters off the coast of Italy, greatly increasing the risks of contamination of the same, and not only of the Adriatic ones, but also of the Sicilian ones. Taking advantage of the motion at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Castaldi, as a Sicilian I think it is necessary to point out some requests for research permits in the sea near the southern coast of Sicily which, under the new legislation, have been reactivated or could be reactivated shortly. In particular, the two requests for a search permit to the South of Lampedusa, d341 CR PU and d342 CR PU, adjacent to the Marine Protected Area and which had already, in a surprising way, obtained environmental compatibility, or requests for a search permit d25 GR NP and d26 GR HP, which are the responsibility of the Marine Protected Area of the Egadi Islands. Or even the requests for search permits d352 CR SL, d353 CR SL, d354 CR SL, which lava the southern coast of Sicily, a few miles from the Stagnone of Marsala, the fishing port of Mazara del Vallo and the tourist town of Sciacca. A further eighty attention must be paid to the research permit in the phase of environmental impact assessment that involves drilling an oil well called Vela 1, whose area of influence falls within the 12 miles and which is located in front of the coast of Capo Bianco, protected by the natural reserve of the mouth of the river Platani, and Agrigento that with its temples is a patrimony of humanity. Further requests for search permits or permits already issued - about 14 - benefit from this regulatory change by insisting on marine protected areas, parks, fishing ports and tourist cities. It is known to all as the entire Sicilian coast represents a true melting pot of naturalistic wonders, but it is above all its sea that, in addition to being a real treasure chest of archaeological treasures, welcomes among its waters a real naturalistic treasure that makes the Sicilian Canal one of the richest hot spots for biodiversity in the Mediterranean. And it is precisely this extraordinary and delicate biodiversity that is the economic engine of both the fishing sector and the tourism sector. Remember that Sciacca and Mazara del Vallo are among the largest fishing ports in the Mediterranean! The same colleague Marinello, who should be agrigentino, could confirm how the city of Sciacca, in which the request for permission d354 CR SL insists, is one of the largest Sicilian tourist poles, recipient of significant public and private investments. All this naturalistic, cultural, tourist and economic richness, risks being swept away for the interest of a few oil companies, some with truly derisory social capitals, at the limit of ridicule. Just to give an example: San Leon Energy, which has interests in Sciacca, Mazara del Vallo and Egadi Islands, has a share capital of only 10,000 euros. I therefore believe that it is necessary to invite this Government to proceed as soon as possible, given that there are dozens of requests for research permits reactivated following the entry into force of Article 35, with a serious and concrete risk to our nation. My hope is that the commitment will be taken seriously and not when there is nothing left to protect. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u62	There is a representation in the Chamber of students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale Scauri in Minturno, in the province of Latina, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, the proposals before us indicate to the Government the need to achieve a complex objective, which can be simplified, in my view, in the following four points: consolidation of measures to ensure safety in prospecting and extraction activities; minimization of forms of environmental impact; analysis and reduction of the cost of national energy; development of environmentally friendly forms of energy production. Every single request has the deep sense of a strong integration between the energy policies of our country and the guarantees of environmental security, understood in the broadest and most important sense: the protection of the territories and communities that inhabit them. For these reasons, the meaning of this document should be unique and its link with the National Energy Strategy should be clear. In other words, I hope that the motions presented represent an act capable of producing progress in the field of our country's energy policies: a careful step forward, not an intolerable step backwards. One of the key points is undoubtedly the complete transposition, to be done quickly, of Community Directive No 30 of 2013 on the safety of operations at sea: urgent transposition which serves to remove the suspicion that the use of the suspension of new activities for the cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons in the territorial sea constitutes an insurmountable and temporary indeterminate barrier. This suspension is, in fact, acceptable only on the condition that it is an incentive instrument aimed precisely at transposing the European Directive. I believe that a lack of coordination and a contrast between the adoption of the preclusive measure and the fulfilment of the Community obligation risk having negative consequences in a sector of certain importance for the support of employment policies, for industrial investments and for the same competitiveness of our country. It should be recalled that Italy itself has always intervened, even at European level, in order to achieve high minimum safety standards. Moreover, our country is a school in the world with its industry, both in terms of technological knowledge and safe operational experiences. It is certainly not by chance that Italy ranks first in the international ranking due to the lack of leakages in the period 2000-2013, against the new drilling of 280 wells. At the same time, we must not forget that Italy, both for internal reasons and for Community constraints, is formally and substantially committed to achieving energy objectives, and the reasons for supporting the documents presented are certainly in tune and in support of achieving these objectives. I am thinking, in particular, of energy sustainability and the achievement of high levels of autonomy, as well as the implementation of economic, stable and secure supply systems. This last objective has become of particular importance, as the crises related to Arab Springs (that of Libya first) and, last but not least, recent fibrillations related to Ukraine have made dramatically evident. These objectives are now placed in a reality in which, instead, Italy continues to be a country with a very high rate of energy import (around 80% of national needs). This has a number of negative consequences: a strong imbalance in costs (about EUR 60 billion per year), an objective reduction in our industrial competitiveness (with an energy cost of almost 40% to 50% higher than the European average), but also an extreme practical difficulty in managing the available resources rationally. In this regard, I would like to highlight another aspect: what should be strongly re-launched as an essential corollary to today's initiatives is a system of orderly and effective exploitation of the domestic resources available to our country. It is a heritage of fossil and renewable sources, to which must be reserved a rational and regulated management of the potential, in order to overcome the too many constraints that limit the autonomy of our Country and make more and more complex the effective differentiation of the sources of supply, as moreover demanded also from the last communication of the European Commission on the climate-energy package. In the context of the revision of the royalty rates provided for in the new cultivation concessions, I believe that the proposed increase should be bound in favour of the territories most directly affected by the subsequent exercise of the concessions. This is a more general issue, which concerns the use of natural resources for energy purposes and the economic impact on the territories, and which, in my opinion, can find a decisive application model precisely in the hydrocarbons sector. In the field of relations with the territories, it is also of central importance to develop the role of local authorities in the field of authorisation procedures. This approach, in fact, can guarantee maximum sensitivity and attention to the various problems of detail that can be manifested and to those that are already in their present state worthy of deepening, such as the protection of the coasts of the Adriatic and the Gulf of Venice. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of giving a strategic value to the document that the House will approve today, in the knowledge that the actions required of the Government can already rely on a solid basis made of best practices and reliable levels of security, decisive support for growth measures in the national energy sector and in the related areas. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u65	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u66	Mr President, my fellow Senators, Madam Undersecretary Vicars, I do not hide at all the satisfaction I feel when I speak today in this House on a subject particularly felt in large and important areas of the country and in my land, Abruzzo. Exactly on April 15 last year in 40,000 Abruzzo we met in Pescara to protest against the oil project "Ombrina mare" of Medoil Gas of London. It is expected to drill six wells, to install a platform six kilometers from the shore of one of the most beautiful stretches of coast and sea in Italy and the installation of a ship of type FPSO nine kilometers from the beach. Similar situations - sometimes even worse - are found on much of the Adriatic coast. In fact, in recent years there has been an increase in the number of oil extraction platforms off the coast, among the bewilderment of local administrations, many entrepreneurs and thousands of citizens. From North to South: in the north-central Adriatic, in the south-western Adriatic up to the Ionian Sea, in the Sicily Canal, in the middle-high Adriatic, in front of the Venetian lagoon, in Emilia, in the Marches and in Abruzzo. All this deserved a new and different attention, after the resounding intervention of the 2012 development decree that, in fact, frustrates previous regulatory interventions more inspired by sustainability and caution compared to an environment as vulnerable as the Mare nostrum. I would therefore like to thank the 13th Commission for its valuable work: I would like to thank President Marinello for the synthesis of the work on the reconstruction of motions through the agenda and the members of the Commission for the difficult and demanding work that has been done over the past few weeks and which has produced a political figure that we are preparing to support and vote on today. In fact, starting from various motion proposals and with an intense practice made of listening to representatives of local authorities, associations, categories, is now finding the right balance between energy needs and the safeguarding of our exhausted natural and economic resources. The G2 agenda proposes an important summary. Already at the beginning of this parliamentary term, exactly a year ago, I filed a question and a draft law on the subject. In the question, which still awaits an answer (on the contrary, I take advantage of this opportunity to solicit it) questions are asked about the hallucinating and omissive behavior of the Abruzzo Region. In the draft law instead it is proposed the modification and the repeal of the fantomatic article of the development decree. The bill, which for me is not a cockard but represents an input to the Government to legislate in a new way, was also presented to the House by Members of the Democratic Party as the first draft law on the subject in this legislature. The objective is to suspend the installation of the oil platform "Ombrina mare" (Ombrina mare) which should arise (according to the project presented) a few kilometers from the coast of Trabocchi. The draft law presented by me repeals Article 35 of Decree-Law 22 June 2012, n 83 (decree development); with motion No 91 and with the agenda G2, which operates the synthesis of motions, further and important steps are taken. In particular, with the first-signed motion of our leader in the Senator Caleo Environment Commission, and signed by myself and other colleagues, we wanted to re-examine this issue in all its broad and complex aspects; a topic that involves millions of citizens, hundreds of local authorities, thousands of businesses. The rules governing the exploration, research and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea have overlapped over time and have raised the concerns, above all, of operators of economic activities (not just citizens) operating in the field of fisheries, agriculture and tourism. Needless to deny a high risk factor linked to accidents and contamination of the marine environment. The dramatic images of those tragedies not only make us weep the bitter tears of the crocodile, but lead us to intervene on the prediction of damage. Needless to mention the many incidents. It is good to remember here how frequent seismic events are in these areas and that our sea has an intense telluric and volcanic activity. Moreover, the Adriatic Sea, as other colleagues have said, is a closed sea, with relatively short distances between the shores, a great marvellous narrow lake between different countries and regions of our Europe. The work done in the Commission and the Democratic Party in the Commission has led, together with the valuable work of others, and this mature debate in the House, which proposes to the Government an important itinerary that gives the actors in the field new opportunities and new objectives. I would point out the most important points: to reconsider the current discipline, in particular the forecasts of Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, of the authorization procedures already initiated and the effectiveness of the licences already issued; to re-evaluate the whole of the authorisations for research, prospections and perforations at sea also in the light of the expansion of the classified marine zone C; to strengthen the role of the local authorities in the procedure of EIA, welcoming the municipalities and local authorities as protagonists of the administrative procedure and the choices and no longer as dimensions of democracy (in short, a new and more direct participation can only favor more just and balanced choices, in harmony with the wishes and needs of the population); to promote the ratification of the international agreements, and in particular the protocol of the Barcelona Convention to minimize the impacts produced by these activities; to seek a common strategy of the Mediterranean countries for a strict regulation of the exploitation of the deposits; to have the suspension of the new activities of cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons within the 12 miles of the shore lines and the marine and coastal areas protected (here is also the Abruzze platform for the exploitation of the marine resources); to assess the potential for the economic capacity; to increase of the new ones, also to improve the capacity of the financial and to improve the financial resources of the financial resources, and to improve the financial resources of the financial capacity; to identify 50; to increase the financial capacity; to identify the current measures for the present, to increase the current and to improve the financial resources, to improve the current, to improve the present, to improve the current and improve the current, to improve the current and improve the current measures for the situation of the financial resources of the situation, to improve the current and improve the current and improve the present. There are other items on the agenda. I should not like to dwell on them; they have already been highlighted by the President of the Commission. But these and other important indications on the agenda allow the Democratic Party to express satisfaction with the good work and the result achieved. This satisfaction is also expressed as a citizen of a territory threatened and representative here in the Senate of a specific will of that territory. I return to my region, being able to tell not only that I have presented a law, as if it were a cockard, but that, together with my colleagues of the Democratic Party and the other parties that will support this agenda, a useful and concrete thing not only for the environment but also for the economic development of the coasts of our country. "Ombrina mare" and other realities with this agenda are suspended. The work that we will continue to do is to help and support these important items on the agenda which are opening up a new phase. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u67	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that, in addition to the agendas for G1 and G2, the agenda for G3 has been presented, which I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u68	Mr President, the debate in the Commission was interesting, as was the deal we had and the hearings we had. As often happens, it seems that the premises and concerns agree with us, but the conclusions do not: it seems that those of the Commission, the Government and this House have a protuberance, a sort of umbilical cord that still links the fossil choices to an old dinosaur. Yet we are aware that our country is poor in fossil resources, and I am not just talking about liquid hydrocarbons to which the agenda refers, but about all of them. It has been proved that hydrocarbons in our territories and seas would not cover more than 10% of our energy needs: but then, why is this happening? Because this country lacks a real national energy strategy, or rather, we still have one extremely short-sighted and subjugated by the lobbying interests of the oilmakers. We must therefore tell ourselves what it is like: the representatives of ENEA have come to the hearing to report that the intention is to bring out not oil, that is, liquid hydrocarbons to which our President of the Commission refers the agenda, but solid hydrocarbons, to make them asphalt in order to build the roads in Africa. They told us: therefore, why do we keep so ambiguous about these positions on this agenda, so that, on the one hand, we declare our concerns, our desires for another economy and to safeguard the health, sea, fisheries and tourism of our coasts, while on the other hand, we once again submit to the interests of some - few - who here in Italy pay very little royalties and enjoy the best conditions regarding permits? Yet they have come to tell us! We must bear in mind that it is not only the accident that has to worry us, because the management of these platforms has a constant loss of management, so each of them has a very high impact on our territory and endangers another economy, the only one we should safeguard. We should then understand which way we want to go and what our national energy strategy is: photovoltaics, alternative and renewable energy in recent years have received a series of restrictions that are penalising them, while the demands of oil lobbyists are receiving aid, once again in that sector, with incentives and facilities. We have to understand which way we want to go: if you look at the two agendas, you will see that they are similar, but the adjective "Corporate" has been removed, after the word "hydrocarbons," which is substantial, and a series of requests to the Government to take on more stringent commitments, also with regard to previous ones, because, in the light of the considerations we have come to, we cannot maintain agreements that go against the interests of a whole nation to favor only some. I am sorry, but we will not accept the requests, yes and no that have been made to the Undersecretary, which bring our agenda back to nothing but that of the majority. I would like to point out that there has also been an opposition to the blocking of existing activities for the granting of future authorisations in areas of particular tourist and economic value, because an economic assessment is made on the G2 agenda of the majority. A no was also opposed to the blocking of ongoing activities for the granting of permits in areas with seismic risk, because on the agenda of the majority there is talk of a significant seismic risk, i.e. it is not enough that an area is at seismic risk to block the permits. Our agenda is clearly in complete agreement with Senator Castaldi's motion 1-00039 and for these reasons we cannot accept the Government's request. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u69	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions and agendas that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a report on what has been said before giving the views requested. The instruments we are dealing with today concern all the issues of the exploitation of hydrocarbons at sea. The subject is very topical and has also been dealt with recently by Minister Guidi, at his hearing at the 13th Commission of the Senate on environmental issues related to both exploration and research, cultivation and extraction of liquid hydrocarbons at sea. In view of the complexity of the subjects dealt with in the motions, I would like to give a brief summary here and then leave a detailed text to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u71	The Presidency authorizes you to leave to the documents what you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u72	These topics are closely related to energy policy issues and the strategic lines defined in the final document of the National Energy Strategy (SEN). The SEN document, in particular, contains a part relating to the sustainable development of national production of hydrocarbons, where it underlines the forecast of important economic and employment benefits, while respecting the highest international standards in terms of safety and environmental protection. In fact, the approved document envisages, with a view to 2020, ensuring the return of national hydrocarbon production on the typical values of the mid-1990s and therefore to activate at least 15 billion investments totally private, create 25,000 additional stable jobs, reduce the energy bill by 5 billion euros per year, as well as to obtain 2.5 billion euros of tax revenues, both national and local. The country has significant reserves of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and in the current context it is necessary to leverage on these resources, in an area in which Italy has considerable skills and excellence recognized at global level. On the other hand, we realize the potential environmental impact and it is therefore essential to pay the utmost attention, as carried out so far, in order to prevent potential negative repercussions, moreover in an area in which Italy has a history of incidentality among the best in the world. For Italy the reference model in this sector is that of the Countries of Northern Europe, which have been able to combine a remarkable industrial, economic and social development with a strong attention to the issues of safety and environmental protection. The Government has already activated itself towards a reorganization of the matter, as happened for example with the ministerial decree of 9 August 2013, that has reduced the marine zones reducing them to about half, with the closure to the new activities of the Tyrrhenian areas and those within 12 miles from all the coasts and protected areas. Precisely with reference to the environmental protection profiles in fact, the entry into force of legislative decree n. 128 of 2010, which introduced in the reference legislation paragraph 17 of article 6 of Legislative Decree n. 152 of 2006, the so-called environmental code, originally fixed the prohibition of research activities, exploration and production of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea in the areas placed within 12 miles from the outer perimeter of marine and coastal protected areas, as well as, for liquid hydrocarbons only, in the marine belt included within five miles from the base lines of territorial waters along the entire national coastal perimeter, with the consequence that, having this provision to be applied also to the authorized procedures in progress, a block of the procedures for conferring these new limits would have been determined. In particular, in the motions in question, those that remain standing with respect to the agenda G2, on which I will then express themselves, the emphasis is placed on the successive changes made on the aforementioned paragraph 17 of Article 6 of Legislative Decree No. 152, first by letter a) of paragraph 1 of Article 24 of Decree-Law No. 5 of 2012, with which it was intended to confirm the effectiveness of mining titles already issued before Legislative Decree No. 128 of 2010, also for the purposes of issuing any extensions, then by Article 35 of Legislative Decree No. 83 of 2012. This legislation maintains high standards of environmental protection and at the same time restores the right to the development of activities for which investments or ongoing investigations of applications for research and cultivation permits were already carried out in 2010. In this way a potential dispute with the operators has been eliminated, ensuring that they can continue to be responsible for the costs of decommissioning for the dismantling and restoration of production plants never entered into operation. However, it should be pointed out that this mechanism of reactivation of the authorization procedures, already pending at the time of the entry into force of Legislative Decree no. 128 of 2010, for nothing has affected the severity of the related investigations, both in the administrative procedure for the conferment of offshore mining titles and with regard to the procedure provided for in Article 1, paragraph 82-e, of Law No. 239 of 2004. In fact, the territorial offices of the Directorate-General for Mineral and Energy Resources carry out an authorization procedure covering the safety aspects of ordinary maintenance activities which do not involve any spilling at sea. Moreover, with regard to the procedures of EIA and VAS, it is also evident that the outcome of the procedures for the issue of mining titles, even if within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development, is subordinate to the outcome of the environmental impact assessment as a mandatory and binding endoprocedimental procedure of the Ministry of the Environment with the concert of the Ministry of Cultural Activities and Tourism, after hearing the Regions concerned, i.e. the whole institutional world. With regard to decommissioning, it is stated that it constitutes all the operations aimed at the safety and removal of the installations used for the cultivation of hydrocarbons, including the mining closure of the wells to be carried out once the mining activity has been completed. It was also considered necessary, for further assurance, for the Ministry to require appropriate financial guarantees from the proposer to cover the costs planned under the mining title work programme. The activities of decommissioning are therefore entirely borne by the holder of the cultivation concession and are carried out under the supervision of the competent territorial office of the Ministry. As regards the statements on pollution caused by oil-growing activities at sea, according to the most accredited studies on the impact of oil activities, oil pollution in the Mediterranean is not linked to the presence of oil platforms. In fact, in the fifty years of mining activity in the Italian seas, mainly related to the production of methane gas, there have never been accidents that have caused environmental deterioration. The Minister for Economic Development himself presented a very significant and absolutely irrefutable figure at the above hearing in the Senate Environment Commission: most of the installations at sea are located off the coast of Romagna, which is at the same time the area of choice for national and international bathing tourism and we never remember here any incidents of pollution related to the activity under consideration. This fact shows that mining is not in itself detrimental to tourism if carried out in a environmentally sustainable way, as is the case in Italy. As for the aspects more specifically related to the safety of extractions at sea, in recent months, on the occasion of the opening of the table of transposition of the new directive 2013/30 of the European Union on the safety of the operations of research and cultivation of hydrocarbons at sea, it has been remembered that Italy, as a member promoter of this initiative, has participated actively since 2011 in all the technical-political tables that have characterized the ascending phase of the directive, which aims to set high minimum safety standards in order to prevent accidents and to limit their consequences. The commitment of me and the Government is aimed at an effective and very short transposition of the directive, given the strategicity of the issue also at the direct request of the European Commissioner Oettinger, who sent a letter in which he expressed appreciation for the work carried out by Italy, both in the ascending phase, and in the technical group of the European Commission specialized on the topic of safety. In this regard, it is worth pointing out the active role of the Ministry in promoting an increase in safety standards on both sides of the Mediterranean Sea. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Development places absolute importance on the issue of the Italian ratification of the offshore protocol annexed to the Barcelona Convention. In conclusion, it can be said that Italy can boast a sixty-year experience on offshore safety issues and is the repository of excellent examples of best practices on the subject, as witnessed by the European Commissioner, with a technological know-how and system performance that are recognized to us at global level. I now turn, Mr President, to the expression of opinions on motions. As far as motion No 39 is concerned, I am prepared to accept the first point of the proposal in the following rewording, if accepted by my colleagues: To ensure that, within the framework of the discipline laid down in Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, converted, with amendments, by Law No 134 of 2012, the utmost attention is paid to safety and environmental protection profiles in the evaluation of the recovery of old instances. The reason for this change is quite implicit as I said. The second point of the commitments is accepted, while the third point is not accepted because these issues relate implicitly to the environmental impact assessment process of the cultivation request for "Ombrina mare" (Ombrina mare). It is recalled that the environmental impact assessment process, which is not yet concluded, is part of the main procedure for granting the cultivation concession, in which, while respecting the investments made by the company, it will be possible to assess all the positions, even contrary, expressed by the administrations involved and by anyone interested in them. The fourth point is not accepted because unfortunately there are no regulatory conditions (unless colleagues suggest what regulatory conditions to mention) that allow the administration to proceed with the withdrawal of the licences already issued. Also the fifth point is not accepted because all the activities mentioned in it are already subject by law to mandatory environmental impact assessment, regional competence for the mainland and state, instead, for the sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u73	The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. 85, 90 and 91 have been withdrawn. I would therefore ask you to give your opinion on motion No 92.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u74	On motion 92 at the first signature of Senator De Petris, point 1) of the device is not accepted for the same reasons that I have previously mentioned for the motion of Senator Castaldi: there are no regulatory conditions, unless you help me find them. Point 2 is also not accepted. In point 3 of the operative part, I propose to delete the words "retrieving areas" because it is quite complex and complicated, which is why, if the amendment were accepted, the text would be as follows: As a matter of priority, coastal and marine parks and protected marine areas shall be protected, thereby precluding the start of new surveys for installations and research activities in those areas of primary environmental interest. That is the change we are asking for. With regard to the G1 agenda signed by Senator Scilipoti, the Government welcomes it. On order G2 I would have the following comments, which I shall put to the evaluation of my colleagues. First of all, I am in favour of involving all the research institutes proposed by Senator Chiavaroli. I would then suggest, if considered possible by my colleagues, with regard to some issues that have been dealt with in the speeches but which I did not find on the agenda, that the following point be included in the device: to carry out a survey of the state of use of oil production plants at sea, providing for the progressive and rapid disposal of all plants no longer productive and planning any further developments in such a way as to ensure that the total number of platforms is gradually reduced anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u75	So, this is an addition more than a reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u76	Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Yes, if colleagues allow it. Also on the agenda G2, in the third last paragraph, we believe that the adjective "significant" in relation to seismic risk is not incisive. The proposal we are making is instead to provide for the suspension of activities in areas of high seismic risk. With regard to the G3 agenda, which Mr Nugnes presented, after a reading this morning, I have already given the authors what they can accept and which they cannot accept, but since they do not want to accept the opinion as a whole, they are against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u77	So, with regard to the proposed rewordings, we need to hear the opinion of the presenters. With regard to motion No 39, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators, the Secretary-General gave an opinion contrary to points 3), 4 and 5 of the operative part, which was in favour of point 2, while he proposed a rewording on point 1). I would ask the presenters whether they agree with these remarks from the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u78	I certainly do not agree, Mr President, but I would like to have a copy of the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u79	With regard to motion No 92 tabled by Mrs De Petris and other senators, an opinion was expressed contrary to points 1 and 2 and a proposal for a rewording of point 3 was tabled. I would like to ask the authors whether they wish to accept these comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u80	No, ma'am, we disagree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u81	Therefore, keeping the original text of the motion, the Government's opinion is against it. On the agenda, Mr G2 I would like to ask Senator Marinello if he accepts the Undersecretary's comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u82	Mr President, I would ask for the attention of the representative of the Government. I can agree to amend the third last point by including the word 'high' instead of'significant'. I also welcome the proposal to include a specific point in the system, which we would nevertheless like to read in a thorough way, which concerns the disposal of platforms, so we agree with the verification activity. With reference, however, to Senator Chiavaroli's proposal, I must necessarily be against it, and I explain briefly the reasons for it. The Institute of which the Undersecretary speaks, and about which Senator Chiavaroli has also spoken, is first of all a localistic institute that at this moment operates with a single seismological station located in Udine, Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It carries out another small activity in Trieste and manages only to control from the seismological point of view the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and some territory of Veneto. As far as oceanographic activity is concerned, the Institute has only one observation point in the Gulf of Trieste and carries out a marginal activity in the upper Adriatic. It has therefore absolutely neither the know-how nor a consolidated activity to control all the national territory and the whole Mediterranean Sea. Moreover, I must also add - and I invite the Undersecretary to refer to its offices - that there is Law 381 of 1999 which entrusts exclusively the activity of seismic and volcanic monitoring throughout the national territory to the National Institute of geophysics and volcanology. For these reasons, therefore, I personally cannot agree with this point. Moreover, both here in the Senate and in the Chamber - as I was able to experience during my previous parliamentary activity in the other branch of Parliament - when the Studies Offices went to identify the reference subjects for institutional interlocation, this institution was never listed in the list of subjects to be published. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the Secretary-General to give his views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u83	Mr President, I agree with the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u84	As regards the agenda G2, the addition proposed by the Undersecretary Vicari, shared by the presenters, and the amendment, always proposed by the Undersecretary, of the word "significant" with "high" with reference to seismic risk, is therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u85	I greet the Historical Group of the National Alpine Association of Verona, which is following our work from the forums, also on the occasion of celebrations involving the Alps. [[Applause.]] I also greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Silvio Spaventa) of Atessa, in the province of Chieti, to whom I welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u86	Senator Castaldi, as far as the proposed amendments to motion 39 are concerned, I believe that you have already spoken in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u87	Allow me, I do not accept the changes that have been proposed, nor do I accept the lies that have been made in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u88	This is your assessment. In any case, proposals for amendments have been made; you do not accept them and confirm your text. That is what we are talking about at this stage of our work, so the text of the motion you have proposed will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u89	CASTALDI (M5S). President, you take the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, I give you the floor, but you only had to say whether or not you agreed with the amendments. As you do not agree, the text you have proposed remains. CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, ma'am, but let me finish. It has been said here, especially with regard to 'Ombrina mare', that this G2 agenda blocks this project. It's a huge lie that I have to report, because there are senators that rinse their mouths with this thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The project "Ombrina mare" is not blocked by this agenda; "Ombrina mare" is blocked because Minister Orlando asked for the procedure of EIA and, if he gets the procedure of EIA, "Ombrina mare" is done, because the agenda G2 is fake of the Democratic Party and of the New Right Center: it does not block anything at all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u93	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate what I have already said in general debate. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Civic Choice Group on the agenda G2 (text 2), at the first signature of President Marinello and myself. As far as the motions presented are concerned, our position is either contrary or, in any case, in accordance with what the Government has stated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u96	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of the G2 agenda (text 2) which also incorporates the changes proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u99	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, as I pointed out in the general debate, the G2 agenda (text 2), presented by President Marinello, represents the port point of a course of lucid analysis and in-depth analysis, carried out by the 13th Commission through a rational comparison with bodies, authorities and experts who have clarified many of the issues that affect the current status quo in the field of oil and gas research and cultivation. What is highlighted on the agenda is a legitimate point of balance between energy-industrial needs, as well as consistency with the Italian authorization plan, and the imperative need for guarantee, protection and safeguard of our coasts. This learning activity has led the Commission to deepen its understanding of the relationship between the cost and benefit of these projects. In fact, it is precisely in the relationship between these factors that the reasons for the opportunity of such an invasive program should be traced. A work has been carried out based on analysis, obviously without ideological drifts, which has led in these hours to the definition of a clear and punctual act in which great progress has been made in the field of understanding and awareness of the so-called oil phenomenon in our seas. This work has been carried out with an approach that has not been limited to a deaf closure because it has assessed point by point the individual environmental, productive and technological and regulatory aspects that revolve around the fuel collection activity. I believe it is a priority to start from this importance in order to deepen a joint and shared commitment to be submitted to the Government. One of the most important aspects must be found in the need to call for a targeted attention from the Government on this issue, after the decision-making stand of the last few months, and this is precisely the fundamental point around which the provisions of this agenda revolve. This attention must take shape from a number of points of view: in legislative terms, through the revision of the aforementioned rule of the environmental code and the revaluation of authorisations already granted so far; in terms of correct and effective environmental assessment, through the involvement of local authorities; in economic-productive terms, with regard to the evaluation of the actual productivity of the deposits currently in operation. Furthermore, the need to suspend new cultivation activities within 12 miles of the coast and to block the granting of authorisations in certain areas, such as those destined for fish repopulation or affected by seismic phenomena, should not be overlooked. A worthy element of interest is also reflected in the renewed focus on supporting scientific investigations conducted by the ENGV, ISPRA and CNR, as an indispensable reference for the authorities. An aspect of great importance must be further researched in the significant role that Italy could play on the international side, not only with regard to the ratification of the protocol already illustrated in general discussion, but also in the promotion of an increase of the regulatory framework in the matter of security in the Mediterranean countries, always in the awareness - as already said - that in the implementation of a timely international framework there is the indispensable prerequisite for the national re-adjustment. Our seas, in fact, our ecosystems, the economies of our coasts, among the most beautiful and appreciated of the Mediterranean, cannot be compromised by the speculative voracity of someone, who unfortunately has found appropriate legitimization in the many faults left open by the legislator and that feeds on a mistaken and contradictory vision of sustainable development in our country, where the calls demagogic towards the gradual independence from fossil sources and, therefore, the attempted valorization of those renewable corresponds in fact to a practice of different nature, always made of exploitation of the territories, pollution and environmental dramas. Certainly the agenda G2 (text 2) does not represent an inversion to what has hitherto been authorized and legitimated by the norm, at least on some aspects, also because it would create the premises of illegality leading to disputes certainly not functional to our objective. With these commitments, the programme is part of a new regulatory framework made up of clarity, comparison and recognition of burdens and honours, among other things putting local authorities and citizens, the victims of this system, first and foremost. That is why I am announcing the Group's vote in favour, which I represent on the agenda of President Marinello. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u102	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the activities of oil and gas cultivation and extraction in the sea, both liquid and gaseous, as well as the preparatory stages of research and exploration, are strategic economic activities closely linked to national energy policy. The legislation governing this activity in our country, contained mainly within the environmental code, has been the subject of the last four years of various messed up mixes, which have started from the terrible accident of 20 April 2010 at the Deepwater Horizon platform, in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, which has created environmental damage with catastrophic consequences for the marine ecosystem. The accident prompted our legislator to adopt a series of limitations to these activities in the Italian marine waters, first to safeguard the protected areas and in the 12 miles belt surrounding these areas, but also in a band from the coasts of the entire national coastal perimeter: first of 5 miles only for liquids, then extended to 12 miles also for the gaseous ones. Uncertainties and risks of litigation emerged, however, immediately in relation to the authorization procedures: first, with the legislative decree n. 128 of 2010, were also prohibited those in progress in the specific sectors, creating tensions between entrepreneurs and the Italian State and introducing strong risks of damages claims; then with the decree Passera, n. 83 of 2012, the prohibitions and restrictions were imposed only on new activities, without prejudice to the authorisations in progress on the date of entry into force of legislative decree n. 128 of 2010. This opening to the advantage of the historical dealers was made compensating by increasing the royalties, albeit slightly, remaining in fact at a decidedly low level compared to the average applied by other countries. For the reasons mentioned above, the North League, which has always had in its DNA values such as the protection of territories and the environment, as well as the attention and support for the sustainable development of economic activities, has already tabled a motion on the topic under discussion today since last June 2013. In our document we reiterated the importance of protecting the priority habitats of the marine ecosystem and above all, in line with current legislation, the opposition to the release of new concessions in the High Adriatic, which are at risk of worrying phenomena of subsidity. It is well known that the extraction of hydrocarbons in our seas represents strong economic interests of oil companies all over the world, and not only of ENI, but it is equally clear that this activity presents high environmental risks related to major accidents, in relation to drilling techniques, to spills on the occasion of the maintenance of platforms and wells, to the transport of extracted components and, finally, in relation to seismic and volcanic phenomena absolutely not remote in our country, not to mention the phenomena of subsidity that negatively invest large portions of the territory of the upper Adriatic. The extraction activity, moreover - I emphasize - not only contrasts with the protection of the environment and the marine ecosystem, but is also decidedly in conflict with other important economies for our country like the fishing and, above all, the tourism developed on our coasts more for the extraordinary enterprise of our entrepreneurs than for the bland, if not non-existent, policies of support to the section of the various governments. Also for these many aspects, because of the need to meet the different needs, the issue has been dealt with by the Senate Environment Commission. In these months there have been many subjects that we have audited and that have helped to understand the phenomenon. The state of the art in our country sees a number of oil extraction platforms off our coasts greatly increased in recent years, also affecting marine areas already subjected to strong environmental stress. Only in the area of the Middle-High Adriatic, there are many platforms and many wells for the extraction of gas. I stress that Veneto is among the regions that make the most contribution in terms of energy supply. Not only with power plants like that of ENEL of Porto Tolle, recently sentenced for environmental disaster, but also with the offshore regasifier open cycle off Porto Viro in the province of Rovigo, operating since 2008, thanks to which the Veneto Region covers 17 percent of the national needs. In this case we cannot accept the strong suspicion that this plant, located in an area of great naturalistic value, can affect the decrease of the fish stocks recorded in the area and with the recent and abnormal death of dolphins and turtles. A number of requests for research and prospecting activities, research permits and applications for concessions are also in progress or active. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about an ongoing and expanding mining activity in the future which could seriously and irreversibly compromise our territory. For this reason, the Northern League Group has withdrawn its motion and made convergence on the agenda linked to the resolution adopted by a large majority in the Environment Commission, which our Group has also helped to formulate and draft and which commits the Government to several important points, only some of which I would like to recall: the binding opinion of the local authorities as an integral part of the EIA to which the installations must be subject; to ensure that the holding companies re-empt the resources necessary to finance the activities of decommissioning and to ensure the satisfaction of the claims of the oil companies for the environmental damage caused; the ratification of the agreements and international conventions to which Italy adheres, which aim to prevent or to minimize the impacts produced; the definition of a common strategy with all the other countries of the Mediterranean (it would be a contradiction to block the activities off the coast of our coasts and then assist, on those of Croatia, the race to black gold as it is actually occurring); the provision of the suspension of the new activities of oil cultivation in the protection bands pending the transposition of the EU directive n. 30 in terms of safety on the sea; the increase of the law to the black gold as a matter for maintaining the phenomena due to the 50 percent to the sensitivity of the Adriatic due to the consequences due to the sensitivity of oil in order of the Gulf. For these reasons, the Group of the North League will therefore vote in favour of the agenda G2 (text 2) confirming its commitment to protecting the environment in general, but in this case the coasts and the sea and the priority of the Venetian ones which, among the national ones, are obviously the most stressed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u105	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in addition to announcing the vote in favour of motion No 92, I would like to make a few quick comments on the substance, and above all on the fact that we are probably missing the opportunity for the Senate Assembly to be able to express a broad, if not unanimous, vote in favour. Moreover, if it were so broad or unanimous, it would be an authoritative indication, which would put the Government in a position to act both in terms of legislative initiative, putting in place appropriate and corresponding instruments, and in relation to the comparison with other coastal countries. In fact, even in this debate, several colleagues have emphasized the fact that there are countries much more spilt, let's say, than the regulations and attention to defending the marine conditions and what we are talking about today. I repeat that we have missed an opportunity because today several motions from those tabled have been withdrawn. We then have an agenda which undoubtedly loses the characteristic, the most compelling element, of some of the motions withdrawn. Through the debate in this House, we could achieve a truly common text which could represent the synthesis of the proposals and the sensitivities expressed here. We did not want to do this, and the majority made another choice. I believe that, in addition to losing an opportunity, we put ourselves in a position of weakness on the merit and also on the other countries, the European Union and not. Currently there are 34 requests for research for over 16,000 square kilometres, 3 requests for exploration for an area of 45,000 square kilometers, 13 research permits already issued for 5.469 square kilometers and 8 applications for concession. The International Conference of Adriatic and Ionian Regions was recently held in Venice, at the end of which the Promotional Regions voted on a unitary agenda inviting the Italian Parliament to adopt a new regulation of mining activities, aimed primarily at protecting marine resources, also in line with the new provisions of the European Union. Therefore, the mechanism set up also in the motion that we signed, on which the Government (especially for the first point) expressed a contrary opinion, responds to this need. In fact, the first point calls for the suspension of all authorisations for new exploration and cultivation of oil fields in the Mediterranean and, in the second point, for the promotion of a legislative initiative of its own competence aimed at clearly excluding any form of derogation from the prohibition to carry out explorations in the space of 12 miles from the coast. We need to give a clear and strong signal, otherwise we risk having had a debate in any case useful (I have read agendas that contain scientific information understandable also at the elementary level), but being this Parliamentary House, an indication that is given to the government must follow a coherent activity from the legislative point of view that puts us in a position as a country to be up to other states that carry out activities on their coasts that overlook the Mediterranean and, in particular, on the Adriatic. I therefore declare that we shall vote in favour of motion No 92 tabled by us on motion No 39, of which Senator Castaldi is the first signatory, and on the agenda for the G3. Instead, we will vote against the G1 and G2 agendas (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u108	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, we have already explained the process and the reasons that have led the Commission to adopt a resolution by a large majority, which has been transformed into a draft agenda, albeit with a number of amendments and additions. I have reason to thank all my colleagues from the 13th Commission for the work they have done in these long months, as for the work carried out in the previous legislature under the wise and careful guidance of his friend Tonino D'Alì. I should also like to thank my fellow Senators of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura e Lega Nord e Autonomie, who said that they appreciated, announcing a favourable vote, the agenda of the G2 (text 2) and that they also signed the parliamentary act. I also thank the Government, in the person of the undersecretary Vicars, because the intercourse, which at certain times was also rather complicated and difficult, eventually produced a document. Of course, it is a mediation document because it seeks to meet different needs: on the one hand, the need linked to development, on the other hand, the protection of the environment and biodiversity, the marine environment which we consider to be a wealth and heritage from which we cannot ignore. We have arrived at this agenda which, as far as we are concerned, is a starting point, a first step which is to draw the great attention that the 13th The Commission, and I hope the Senate House as widely as possible, shows that it has on environmental issues. It is clear that considering this a starting point, and therefore not a closed game, we will continue to follow events not only as a whole but also in the individual issues and in the individual elements also apparently of detail because on these issues it is not possible to lower the level of guard. We therefore ask, despite the Government's willingness to accept it, that on the G2 agenda (text 2) the House vote precisely to give more strength to the act itself. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation of the G1 agenda presented by Senator Scilipoti. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u111	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, colleagues and citizens, Senator Pezzopane has just said that thanks to the agenda of Senators Marinello and Caleo Ombrina Mare 2 I dare say it's false. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Abruzzo, it's fake! Minister Guidi aims today, like his predecessors, to plunder the marine and terrestrial subsoil from the poor Italian oil that - let me tell you - is full of sulphur, mercaptans and various pollutants. It is an expensive oil to extract because it is up to 7 kilometers deep. The more you dig, the more you spend, but you extract anyway, because it is an oil made convenient by control regulations that are bland, by simplified permits and by canons of cultivation. In fact in Italy you pay 54 euros per square kilometre, that is about 2,000 euros per year by concession on average, compared to 500,000 euros per year paid in Norway. It is excavated and spent due to reclamations charged furbly to the Italian State, due to environmental impact assessments written in photocopy and presented from North to South of the Country without any obligation of a real evaluation of the territory that you want to drill and without any social limit. It is pierced in Italy even less than a kilometer from a hospital, inside the areas of valuable agricultural cultivations, within the countries, along the sea coasts and within the areas of recharging of the water basins, which feed the springs of the rivers whose waters then end up in our food chain. Now, I do not want the undersecretary Vicari, but what you said today is certainly not flour of your sack, as certainly is not flour of the sack of Minister Guidi, because the national energy strategy was written by the former minister of economic development Corrado Passera, the author of the infamous article 35 of Decree-Law 22 June 2012, n. 83, of which we are asking for the abolition. In fact, allowing to pierce 5 nautical miles from the coast seems to me an undue favor granted to mining companies compared to the limit of the 12 nautical miles imposed by the previous legislative decree, as a sea area free from the platforms. And - allow me the Senator Pezzopane - not to mention that "Ombrina Mare" with its 40 kilometers of pipes and a oil refining unit, more than a platform is a real floating factory. The mining companies look to the interests of their titles, certainly not to the interests of the environment, and put a platform just 5 nautical miles from the bathers, with the bottoms definitely lower than the bottoms that the platforms would find at 12 miles, it certainly has lower times and costs. If we then add that the 90,000 tons of toxic waste that a platform throws to sea in the course of its life are dangerously closer to the coast, to the health and to the food of the Italians, this does not seem, rightly, a problem for the oil companies: they look at the maximum yield with the least expense; the rest, the fish to mercury, the toxic muds, the water to the chicory and the barium, the heavy metals in the sediments and the seabed, are simple details, a price to pay for the progress, but the progress of their accounts in the bank, in the tax havens [[Applause from the M5S Group]] in whose seas and land - I bet a dinner with Scaroni and Passera - will most likely be forbidden to pierce. I overlook the rhetoric of good governance that should be concerned and prevent, on behalf of the Italians who vote for it, precisely the abuses and arrogance of industrial activities in general; see the case Ilva di Taranto and the mining activities in particular. However, since we have not seen a good government for more than thirty years now, perhaps the time has come to understand two things: the first thing to understand is that the twenty-year continuity of the various central-right and centre-left governments alternating in the country's Inciucio is seen precisely by the Ministers photocopied to the Ministry of Economic Development; the second thing to understand is that it is time for a special law that frames all the facets of the mining activities in a single regulatory framework, separate from other industrial activities, to protect public health and the human food chain, precisely because mining activities have, by their industrial nature, a much higher invasivity towards the environment and its inhabitants. Ministers photocopied I said; and in fact, it is now stated: that he appointed them the PdL of the last Berlusconi Government, like Paolo Romani, the one who trivialized the perforations in Basilicata calling them "four holes on the ground" [[Applause from Senator Lezzi]] ; or that the PD of the only Government of Alema, such as Pierluigi Bersani, the man of the "rigassifiers" in every port has appointed them; or, again, that he has appointed them the "technical" Mario Monti, as in the case of Corrado Passera, the minister of the cunning of article 35 of the decree-law n. 83 of 2012, who has pretended to confirm the limit of the 12 miles "imposto" in 2010 from the tragedy of the Gulf of Mexico, except, however, to recover the permits in existence before the law of 2010: or, finally, that they are ministers of the economic development photocopy, appointed by the government of the broad understandings, like Zanonato and Guidi, who want, for example, to make legal the fracking, the most disastrous practice possible for the national water reserves (only because someone assures them that it is a convenient technique, obviously for the oil tankers, not sure for the nation); in short, now it is conclaimed, dearest of the Vicari: they are able to appoint them to name them, the "Procuratore" the only one of the economic Development, that is certainly the one that is not to name, the one, the one one that has not known to name of the development of the one, the one, the one one, the one, the development of which is not certain the Italians of the Our opposition to oil - know this - is not ideological, but logical and linked to the fact that the petrochemical industry is the one that more than any other has poisoned the planet, to the greater glory of the much-honored freedom to go in the car where you want to go, in addition to the certainty that oil is a finite resource. It is not NIMBY syndrome, but the fact that the exit from fossil sources and oil is not a choice, but an obligation. In the transition towards a future free from fossils, date to be marked on the calendar of any political agenda for those who think of a planet Earth still habitable, we demand that stricter legislation towards mining activities be designed and proposed. It is not possible, in fact, that in California the whole chain of oil, from seismic prospecting for research to the full of gasoline in the car, is considered carcinogenic and is subject to ruthless controls, even social, while in Italy not. From us, in fact, bodies overpaid to control the quality of the environment in the surroundings of the refineries of crude oil (as in the case of the now failed Metapontum Agrobios, paid about 6 million euros by the Region Basilicata for a study of 2 years around the Oil Center of Viggiano) do nothing but reiterate: It's all right!It's all right, when in reality we have come to count in a glass of water to drink the presence of 37 toxic and harmful substances. It is not possible for the World Health Organization to say that hydrogen sulphide emitted into the air during industrial activities - whatever is in place - must not exceed the limit of 0.005 parts per million, whereas in Italy it is 5 parts per million, if it is a non-oil industry, and 30 parts per million, if crude oil is refined. These are some of the reasons that led us, like the 5 Star Movement, to work on a new law on the effects of oil, for which we have turned to international and independent experts; a law that is omnipotent even of those subterfuge bureaucratic thought of art to favor the mining companies, of which I could recall the main ones: the possibility for the regions to evade environmental impact assessments; the exemptions to the rights of citizens; the perverse flattery of royalty, which are a misery, put in the hands of administrators with small budgets, and are nothing more than a legal and public system that acts with the same effects of a tangent. Not for anything else, President and colleagues, instead of jumping into the fracking adventure, it is now time to calm this drilling anxiety that still transmits today the CEO of ENI, Scaroni, and to start a real path that saves fossil fuels. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, Mr President, in all this, it is clear that the 12 nautical miles that we want to restore with the abolition of the cleverness of Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012 are only an extra precaution and not a solution for our seas (there is in fact no limit of tranquility when every platform can throw into the sea in its life 90,000 tons of toxic filth). Despite this, we are voting in favour of the first-signed motions Castaldi and De Petris and the first-named agenda, Nugnes, because at least this way the chemical filth produced by a platform of another 7 nautical miles from the coast, and, in my opinion, is already a good starting point. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u114	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda submitted to the vote of this House does not and cannot have the ambition to solve completely the problem of drilling and drilling of the seabed for oil and gas. It raises only some of the most urgent issues to be addressed in the coming months, pending new amendments to the rules in force (among them Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012), and the transposition of Directive 2013/30/EU. In the same document there is a general reference to the Mediterranean Sea and the Adriatic Sea, highlighting the delicate balance of those sea areas and their seabeds, where the sole objective of research and intensive extraction of hydrocarbons should be pursued without taking into account the ecosystems present there. In this respect, I would like to highlight the natural fragility of our marine systems. Among the various literary quotations, I like to recall Braudel, who defines the Adriatic as a narrow sea and Predrag Metvejević, who depicts it as a sea of intimacy, because he has always somehow forced the people and peoples who live along its coasts to be close to him. Expressions that, beyond rhetoric, make us understand not only the delicacy, but also the strategicity of our seas and, at the same time, the need for their protection. In this sense, the agenda G2 (text 2) commits the Government to revise what has already been decided with the recalled article 35 of Decree-Law No 83, which allows to recover the old requests for drilling of the seabed. Certainly significant is the need, underlined in the document, for a constant involvement of local authorities, whenever the issue of mining licences at sea is discussed. Not lacking in importance is the objective of a greater reflection and of a more careful deepening in the investigation phase of the requests, with the involvement of the National Institute of geophysics and volcanology and CNR. The most convincing part of the agenda is not that which introduces suspensions or limits to new oil crops, but rather the part in which we are trying to promote, accelerate and better define a common Euro-Mediterranean strategy, aimed at agreeing to regulate the exploitation of submarine oil deposits throughout the Mediterranean basin. Moreover, the document anticipates a rapid ratification of the agreements and international conventions to which our country has acceded, in order to prevent and minimize the impacts produced by the activities of research and cultivation of hydrocarbons along our coasts, as well as to reduce the impacts produced by the transport of hydrocarbons and dangerous substances by sea. Here I would like to remind you of some dramatic events which concerned the transport and spilling of hydrocarbons into the Mediterranean. The traces of the sinking of the "Haven" are still imprinted in the Ligurian Sea. We wonder what would have happened in our small seas if the sinking occurred in 2002 in Galicia, when the oil tanker "Prestige" sank. In that case, the damage, which was huge, was reduced only by the fact that everything happened in front of the Atlantic Ocean. It is therefore clear that much still needs to be done to prevent such occurrences even if for some years the navigation control system - I think of the VTMIS - guarantees greater safety in our seas. Finally, I would like to make two further comments on the part that I would like to highlight most. The first point concerns the fact that, in addition to the conventions and international agreements of various kinds, it is time for the European Union to have appropriate instruments to plan and plan activities such as those on the G2 agenda (text 2), in order to prevent the various states and local authorities from having to chase the legitimate proposals of oil companies without having any direction on such industrial policy choices. In this respect, I would point out that on 26 June the 13th Senate Commission unanimously endorsed the proposal for a new Community directive focusing on the objective of making planning between Member States on the maritime area and coastal areas compulsory. Such planning would prevent the effect of a deviant NIMBY syndrome and prevent what, for example, cannot be done in Italian territorial waters from being done a mile further in Croatia, France, Greece. The adoption of such a directive and the practical implementation of its principles could, in the medium term, allow a coordinated and homogeneous response to projects such as drilling and drilling for oil and gas. The second and final reflection brings us back to the issue of the lack of a true national energy policy (we are very far from that national energy strategy that, with the Berlusconi Government and with the Roman Minister, had attempted to identify), a lack that does not allow companies to operate in a framework of certainties on which to base their choices and investments, nor does it allow the communities and bodies concerned to express in a unique way their acts of authorization, or refusal, when there are the prerequisites. Only with the aforementioned programming and planning will it be easier to confront on more constructive bases even with the same oil companies, avoiding their demonization and trying to grasp, with modern and safer technologies, also the economic opportunities that can derive from them. For these total evaluations I declare the vote in favour of the Group of Forza Italia on the agenda G2 (text 2). [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u117	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Vicari, we have debated today an important debate after the 13th Commission (environment), for which I would like to thank President Marinello and all the members, has in recent months carried out an important work of deepening, analysis and listening (verifiable to acts), urged by several draft laws and various motions presented on the issues related to exploration, research, cultivation and extraction of liquid hydrocarbons at sea, with particular reference to the consequences of these on the national coasts. It has been a rich and fruitful work - as others have said - from which we have received numerous requests, proposals and guidelines on the existing acts and on the next ones to be adopted. The legislation governing research, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea in Italy, although advanced and highly attentive to the reasons for the protection of health and the environment, has not been able to remove the strong concerns of local communities and companies located near the coastal areas close to the plants, which fear the risks of accidents and contamination. It follows that the awareness of the risks and environmental consequences that would fall on the Adriatic Sea requires a careful assessment of the research, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons off the coast of our country. Evaluating with caution what the country needs today on a matter such as energy does not mean at all affecting the valorization of our heritage of energy reserves and natural resources. I say this because we are equally aware that our country needs a clear, medium and long-term strategic framework that can guide investment with a view to fully integrating the prospects for the development of the energy system and policies to combat climate change. It will therefore be necessary, alongside the important assessments made on this subject, to launch as soon as possible a climate-energy strategy, revising the current national energy strategy, with targets at least 2030, and defining certain tools through which to guide sector policies, reducing contradictory and ineffective interventions, and thus supporting and expanding one of the few sectors that has invested and guaranteed employment in these years of crisis. In our country, the number of oil extraction platforms off the coast has increased considerably over the last few years, reaching marine areas already subjected to severe environmental stress. Most of these are located in the central-northern Adriatic, other than on the south-western edge of the Ionian Sea and in the waters of the canal of Sicily, between Gela and Marina di Ragusa. These platforms operate in relatively low waters, with a high risk of pollution on the coasts, in many parts already acclaimed. This complex of factors raises, especially for the populations and the enterprises involved, strong concerns, linked both directly to the protection of health and to the economic activities of the area, in particular the fishing, tourism and agriculture. In addition, some of the platforms, both in operation and in the process of completion, are located not far away from protected areas and natural marine parks, intended for flora-faunistic conservation, for which it is necessary to maintain high standards of protection. On the agenda of the G2 (text 2), signed by Senators Marinello and Caleo and the other Majority Leaders, it is therefore sought to give a first important response to these concerns and to these themes of perspective, with the aim of avoiding the danger that oil research and activities in the Adriatic Sea have a negative impact. At this time of serious and continuing economic crisis, due to the dynamics of the local economy and to the level of employment, it is also necessary to safeguard small local enterprises and the entire economic and productive induced sectors related to tourism, fisheries and agriculture, as well as to protect the environment and marine fauna in coastal areas, which would be seriously compromised in the event of accidents. It is undeniable, as other colleagues have also said, that the ambivalence of the legislation has generated non-univocal interpretations, which have produced confusion, in which has been inserted those who did not have much at heart the marine environment and its protection. For the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the content of the G2 agenda (text 2) collects in a balanced and complete way the various requests that have been represented during the hearings and I would like us to be aware of them all, including our colleagues in the opposition, that voting on them could give a sense of unity and compactness, even if on some points there are different sensibilities. On the agenda, in fact, there are clear guidelines and commitments that the Government has agreed to take and that represent a strong point of parliamentary action that has been conducted collectively. I would like to stress four of these in particular, so that we do not repeat what Mrs Pezzopane has already said. The first is that our country has a precise obligation to adapt its legislation, albeit advanced, in a timely manner to the provisions of the Protocol " Offshore" of the Barcelona Directive and at the same time to ensure the transposition of Directive 2013/30, paying particular attention to the assessment of the applicant's technical and economic capacities. This is an issue that the agenda clearly addresses by asking the Ministries of the Environment and the economic development of precise commitments and deadlines. The second commitment concerns liquid hydrocarbons, that is oil: many during the hearings, even from opposite positions, have represented a similar estimate regarding stocks in the Italian marine subsoil, of little quantity and of poor quality. It is therefore not with such elements that the country's energy deficit can be filled. The report on the agenda for the suspension of new activities for the cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons in territorial waters is a first important and decisive response, especially to coastal areas, and does not prejudice the development of the gas supply chain. As for the project "Ombrina Mare" (Ombrina Mare), dear Senator Petrocelli, we too know how to read the papers. Mrs Pezzopane did not say the false: that activity will be suspended. This must also be clear to those who listen to us and we know that this is a first step. The third commitment concerns the consideration of the role of local communities in authorisation procedures. The agenda calls on the Government no longer to consider the views of local authorities as being an integral part of the environmental impact assessment process on authorisations, even if, as has often been the case, this is the case. Finally, the fourth point that I would like to stress is the question of the royalties to be asked of the companies, which have been indicated by several parties as inferior to the other coastal countries, and that for the new permits to the perforations is expected to increase up to 50%. This is a field choice, which aims to have more resources for the Ministry of the Environment and for the coastal territories, to strengthen the activities of control, monitoring on pollution and prevention and protection of the territories, in certain and functional times and modalities. I want to reiterate this in conclusion: to evaluate carefully and prudently, without delay, what the country needs today on a matter such as energy, does not mean to prejudice at all the valorization of our heritage of energy reserves and natural resources. Instead, it means having at heart the idea of a sustainable and lasting development of our economy, that can look more than in the past to common goods, to their protection and protection, to their valorization as finite resources, to their beauty and irreproducibility as indivisible heritage, for all of us, but especially for our children. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Party will strongly support the G2 agenda (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Marinello, and calls for a vote in the Chamber because it is able to give the first balanced responses to the territories, businesses in the sectors involved, without ambiguity, with determination and clarity. We have not missed any opportunity, anything else; and the "fuffa" is, dear Castaldi, the one who keeps barking at the moon without doing anything to change things before the new day comes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). Bravo! [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u119	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u120	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I shall not be voting on this agenda for a very simple reason. I would like to thank President Marinello and the Environment Commission as a whole for reporting to a large extent on the work carried out in the previous parliamentary term by the Berlusconi Government and the 13th Commission. However, I cannot help but say here that the danger that our sea is in any attempt at drilling that is authorized is a danger that those who govern and those who sit in the benches of Parliament must see for future generations. We cannot work for small immediate mirages of refreshment, which we do not know what they can be, compared to the very serious prejudice that future generations can find in case of inconveniences that happen in the mining activity. Even from the economic point of view, it is enough to take a tour of Sicily, Mr President, to see how the industrial dream of sixty years ago has been translated into cathedrals in the desert, environmental disasters, in the absence of employment, in a mirage that, after a few decades, has already revealed all its inconsistency, with the fact that the national companies that had invested in that sector have now yielded almost all their activities to foreign companies, and we therefore find ourselves unable to negotiate with those companies environmentally friendly treatments. The Mediterranean is a sea that already has a concentration of hydrocarbons ten times higher than the other seas of the world. I believe that the Italian Government should be more concerned with giving new concessions than with negotiating with the other coastal countries efficient conditions of protection, security, blocking or moratorium as well as a regulation of the transit of oil tankers into the Mediterranean Sea, which indiscriminately leave non-adjustable product trails and are not allowed to do so. This should be done by our Government, rather than being sensitive to the demands of those who actually have no interest in economic development but only in direct personal development. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Blundo, Candiani, Mussini and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u122	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u123	RUVOLO (GAL). Mr President, I will be truly European. I speak to say exactly this: enough drilling! Enough of any form of drilling! We can't do this anymore! Once again, I respect what has happened in this House, I am perfectly convinced that there is an effort, and I also appreciate the work of the Government, but we cannot continue to predict assumptions or any prospect of drilling: the outcome of our tourism, our environment and the health of all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u124	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas of G1, G2 (text 2) and G3 will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 39. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 39, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. The president was Mr 39, 85, 90, 91 and 92. I remember that motions nos. 85, 90 and 91 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 92. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we must once again check that we support the request for a vote by electronic means. Since we are voting on separate acts and not voting on articles and amendments of a legislative measure, we need to check that we support every single vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote by electronic procedure on motion No 92. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. The president was Mr 39, 85, 90, 91 and 92. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G1 agenda presented by Senator Scilipoti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. The president was Mr 39, 85, 90, 91 and 92. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda (text 2). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G2 (text 2), presented by Senators Marinello, Mancuso, Dalla Zuanna, Caleo, Di Biagio, Lanièce, Arrigoni, Bruni, Piccoli, Iurlaro and Liuzzi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. The president was Mr 39, 85, 90, 91 and 92. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Nugnes and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on the G3 agenda. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u127	SIMONI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say that I have not been able to vote in favour of this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u130	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you to have - and I am waiting for your reply on this - checked whether the text of the constitutional reform has been assigned to the Senate. I would also like to ask that there be a verification by the Offices of the text in the Commission and that, according to the Minister, it should be the one that was sent for the signature of the President of the Republic. In fact, there are errors in that text that seem so coarse to me, that I cannot believe it. Let me give you an example. The Lombardy Region, like all the larger regions, will have six senators; the Trentino-Alto Adige will have instead eight. I've never been very skilled in math, but I can't believe it's really like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u131	Senator Calderoli, in Trentino-Alto Adige there are several language groups: perhaps it was thought to give satisfaction to everyone. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, compared to Trentino-Alto Adige, we have already given. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I have seen slides on the news, but the text has not yet been submitted to Parliament. Just settle for slides. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u134	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as a member of the Presidency Council, a newspaper article has been brought to my attention, although I will not mention either the newspaper or the journalist who arrived outside the door of the House yesterday. Regardless of what will happen to the Senate as an institution - it is not up to us, it is a choice that each of us will make - a qualitative leap has been made: not only if they take it out on us senators, but also and above all, by making names and surnames, with Parliamentary assistants who play their role seriously and conscientiously. I therefore appeal, with great serenity, to the President of the Senate to defend and protect this institution until the last day, for the good and dignity of our country. Enough with these black articles throwing mud on people (I use this word but I don't describe in other terms the way in which this article was written). I repeat, if it has been decided that journalists can enter the Chamber and sit on our desks, there is no problem, just know that. My appeal to the President of the Senate, however, is not so much to protect us senators as, I repeat, those who work seriously in this House and for this institution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u135	Senator Mussolini, you are an authoritative member of the Presidency Council, in which I believe we must address these aspects, because there is a limit to everything, in freedom of thought, but also in respect of the institutions that do serious work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u138	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, since February I have presented to the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities the questions 2-00122 and 2-00131 relating to the Parco delle Rimembranze in Modena, but they have not yet received any answers. Meanwhile, the cementification of the park is proceeding where eight mega-kiosks in reinforced concrete, already under construction, against which Italy Nostra, FAI and many environmental associations have intervened. Meanwhile, the judiciary has intervened - which in Italy, alas, intervenes in the inertia of the municipalities and the superintendences - which carried out the seizure of the whole yard in order to prevent the destruction by these eco-monsters. To a great surprise, however, today on the "Gazzetta di Modena" is reported an interview of the undersecretary Borletti Buitoni who would have had to come to the Chamber (she or the minister) to answer the questioning that I presented. In this interview the Undersecretary, instead of attacking the cement builders of the park, attacks me wondering where Senator Giovanardi was when the works began and why, although he was Modena, he did not say anything about the degradation already existing. I would like to remind you that Senator Giovanardi, like Italia Nostra and the other environmental associations, said nothing because this project has never been discussed in the municipal council. Senator Giovanardi, along with environmental associations, said something when these reinforced concrete monsters began to rise in the Park of the Remembrances, which was dedicated to the fallen of the First World War, and which has been protected since 2005, according to a decree of the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activities, which binds its destination to the park and explicitly prohibits the presence of buildings that are not kiosks or small buildings to store the tools used for the maintenance of the park. My speech is somewhat atypical because, when I call for answers to questions 2-00122 and 2-00131 on this particular matter, the Undersecretary - I repeat - instead of coming to the Chamber to respond to the acts of inspection union, he gives interviews to the newspapers entering into the substance of the issues on which I asked Parliament to account for a lack of intervention to protect the peripheral structures of the Ministry that could have prevented a disaster. Among other things, since this has been reported since February, the date of presentation of the first questioning, with some intelligence and foresight the Ministry could have come to limit the damage caused by what is happening and avoid even a traumatic intervention of the judiciary. I therefore ask the Presidency to urge the Government to come to this House to respond to these questions and I repeat my surprise at the interviews given to the newspapers by a Undersecretary who should respond to them in the appropriate forums.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u139	Anyway, Senator, you got a first answer. Then we hope to follow the formal one. There will also be elections in Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u142	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, perhaps the House has escaped, but Senator Zanda spoke in the middle of the morning, remembering and blaming an incident that happened at the headquarters of the Democratic Party in Turin: probably representatives of No TAV, of the social centres, disobedient and so on have caused damage to the seat. We must rightly give solidarity, in the sense that every gesture of this kind must be condemned. But I would like to point out that the League no longer counts the number of acts of vandalism and the damage that its headquarters have suffered. I don't know how many times our windows and windows have been replaced. I have never actually heard a great deal of solidarity in those cases. Even our militants, even the elderly, have suffered aggressions: I quote as an example that happened in Trentino and what happened in Padua a few weeks ago. We do not want double standards to be used: anything is possible or justifiable against the racists of the League; however, if such facts are carried out against the seats of other parties, this must be put to the public and, in any case, blamed and condemned. We condemn every act of aggression against every party, party seat and every militant of its own. Speaking of double standards, we would like to invite the judiciary to use caution. We read today the news of about thirty arrests, and it seems to me that I rewinded the tape in 1997, when another agricultural tractor was disguised as a tank and triggered the investigation by the prosecutor in Brescia (at the time the old prosecutor had done the first investigation in Verona and then in Pavia). You are out of all contact with reality. While Parliament is talking about emptying the prisons of convicted and convicted, they are putting in jail the independenceists that I can call ineffective, harmless and perhaps pranksters. We use the same firmness. We don't use double standards. I remember that the Venetian identity has always been very high. Each Venetian family has a flag; on every historic Venetian house there is a stone with the effigy of the lion of San Marco. The Venetian identity we know is different from any other Italian identity, to the point that the Venetian flag in nautical is worth as much as the Italian flag for boats that travel all over the Adriatic. We therefore call on the judiciary to have common sense in operating in this difficult time for the Italian State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u143	We use tractors for agriculture, which is always better!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u146	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in this House, last week, we voted on a monstrous and unconstitutional draft law that reform the Provinces, saying that it abolishes them, which it does not do. On the contrary, it suppresses the elections. It was introduced into this bill, giving everyone to believe that it would be implemented in the next round of elections, the restoration of the number of municipal councillors, as established by the legislation prior to the reform by decree of 2011, and the possibility of the third term for the mayors of municipalities with population up to 3,000 inhabitants. It is news of these days, indeed I receive it today, that the municipalities are receiving the convocations of the electoral rallies obviously with the old legislation, because the bill approved by the lords of the majority, thinking that what it established would be applied, has not yet been approved by the House. Therefore, we have monster on monster: something that had been seen as done and on which many had voted, tinging, instead is not. And they hurt. And many are the obscenities present in the rest of the provision. That was also a scam, because they are obviously summoned by the rules in force. Therefore, the haste that has been put to the Senate has been misplaced for this too, unless there are different positions, and I would like to ask the Presidency, since it is something that has to do with the legislation of these days, to ask the Government for an answer. This is also due to the fact that yesterday, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Minister who technically calls himself competent did not respond to anything. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u149	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like to remind the House that today, 2 April, World Autism Awareness Day is taking place. Maybe an original way is to illuminate our institutions of a blue light, just to light a light in our consciences and in our hearts and to be able to accompany these people, these children and these girls, who then become boys and girls, men and women, because people suffering from autism grow and we cannot leave them alone during their lives. Autism, as is well known, is a behavioral syndrome caused by a disorder of biological development determined, with onset in the first three years of life. It mainly affects areas related to mutual social interaction, the ability to communicate ideas and feelings and the ability to establish relationships with others. It is a permanent disability that accompanies the subject in his life cycle, which is expressed in a variable way and is characterized by an atypical mental function that requires therapeutic and socio-assistance interventions particularly delicate. That is why I appeal to this House: because we too have important responsibilities, because the problem does not only affect the medical sphere, but above all the social sphere, because we have a duty to accompany these people in their lives. In fact, at the age of 18 it often seems that the problem of autism disappears, but in reality these people no longer have access to school, so if there is no organized territory, if there is no state ready to support them, families can not manage to accompany them all their life, or they do, but at the cost of their own lives. And then, when these parents are gone, these kids will be alone and the work that was done before is likely to be thrown away. They are men and women, they are boys and girls who have the same rights as everyone else: the right to study, the right to work, the right to health, the right to happiness, like any other being. We must therefore all grow in this awareness, accompany parents, support families, educate the community to awareness, as we are reminded today. In the Health Commission, we are drawing up a bill that will come tomorrow, in its basic text, hopefully shared by everyone, in order to be brought to the House precisely to give those social and not only medical answers (because scientific literature thinks of them) that are due to these people. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-221.ana.u150	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.43 p.m.
