ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 24 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (14.07 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] On Saturday evening, August 2, a terrible calamity that upsets for its violence and unpredictability hit the community of Refrontolo, in the province of Treviso. The waters of the river Lierza suddenly turned into an avalanche of impetuous and devastating water that overwhelmed cars, trees, rocks and human lives, causing the death of four people: Luciano Stella, Giannino Breda, Maurizio Lot and Fabrizio Bortolin and the injury of eight others. The repetition of woe among whose causes, in addition to the violence of nature, can be counted also the hydrogeological failure, once again strongly proposes the inescapableness of a further and concrete commitment of all the institutions aimed at safeguarding and securing the territory. The Senate gathers, with deep emotion, to witness closeness and participation in the pain of the families of the victims and of the entire community of Treviso. I therefore call on the House to observe one minute's silence and silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u11	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you and all your colleagues for the memory of these faces, those of Gianni, Fabrizio, Luciano and Maurizio, who are friends, there are municipalities, they are basically neighbors. I would like to take this moment not only to express my emotion before the heartbreak of families and to associate myself with the moment of pain that struck the reality of the Treviso, but also to reason on these issues, which can no longer remain outside of these classrooms, nor can we conceive of considering them only at the moment of tragedy. The water bomb that struck Refrontolo, in Treviso, rekindled the spotlight on the chronic inability of most of Italy to absorb and adapt to current rain phenomena. Politics seems to awaken only in the face of a new tragedy such as the one we are now crying. The numbers confirm what said, if we think that in the last twenty years almost a thousand people have died because of the hydraulic and geological failure and Italy has spent about 3.5 billion euros per year in management for the single emergency. As Salvatore Settis writes today about the Republic, taking up themes dear to the late Treviso poet Andrea Zanzotto, in this country is a general conviction that pharaonic working yards will bring economy and well-being for everyone. If these will serve to build new great works, shopping centers, new residential areas, it will mean that Italy has traded the future of our country, for an illusory well-being and quickly in exhaustion. To which Italy, to which Veneto will be able to serve the great infrastructures when the municipal roads become rivers, the regional and interregional trains are not there or are too poor to replace the traffic of cars and trucks and their climatic emissions? Why has the millennial water culture been lost with the protection not only of the natural beehives of rivers and streams, but also of the adjacent lands, suffering repeated floods that also knock down bridges whenever it rains only a little more? How can too much money always be justified in vain great works, in the TAV of Val di Susa, MOSE and new highways, if we are not sure that the ground on which we rest our feet does not break at any moment? The North-East, Veneto in particular, is prone to episodes of landslides, landslides and floods, so much so that the current one has manifested itself in the first seven months as a real annus horribilis for devastations, deaths and wounded and the beginning of August seems to aggravate a well-known destructive dynamic. The same use of expressions such as "water bomb," "crisi" and "massacre" of fields and hills, "nubifrage" and "disasters" announced, "monsoons" and "uragans" makes evident the now generalized perception of a perennial state of war, apparently only against the climate, in reality a real assault on the territory that presents its salty account. The climate change associated with an increase in natural phenomena is evident, but attention must be paid to the human responsibilities behind these great tragedies. Veneto is the most cemented region in Italy, the region where this disastrous process travels at higher speeds. It has been built everywhere and continues to be built, although the territories are cemeteries of abandoned sheds. The new house floor and the PRAC, that is the hollow floor, recently approved by the Region, are the clear example of a total political insensitivity by President Zaia and his majority to these phenomena. These are associated with the most permissive regional law on deforestation to the advantage of planting vineyards and consequent remodeling of the hills with landslides and land returns that make landslide to every rain hillside. In my own province of Treviso 523 have been recorded by the IFFI project and the list is extended every day. The most absurd in these days is to see how these episodes become even catwalks, spread crocodile tears or late efficiency, closeness a posteriori, yet another sponge that intends to erase obvious political responsibilities for a contradictory action produced against verbal statements of protection never implemented. Those who in recent years had the task of protecting Veneto and preventing the disaster must take on their responsibilities today, change course or have the dignity to stand aside. This is the reflection that I want to put to the attention of all the institutions, even the national ones, asking for a real change of pace, not through words, but through the initiatives that will be undertaken tomorrow, starting from a more detailed cartography on which to finally be able to set up a programming work. We now need a plan for the recovery of the territory and the renaturalization of the rivers, according to the best techniques known and applied by the neighbouring countries of France and Switzerland, which involves the Central State and the Regions: a multi-year plan with secure funding, recovered also by giving up those great works that, in some cases, risk to aggravate the problem, without bringing any serious benefit. We are now being asked for four lives that will no longer be between us and I think that we owe them, as we must put an end to such disasters. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u14	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the face of a tragedy of this scale, it is very difficult to find words. I too am from that territory, I am from Treviso, and what happened the day before yesterday is a tragedy of indescribable proportions, because it has resulted in the loss of four human lives and the injury of eight people, of which it seems unfortunately two still in serious condition. On behalf of the entire Group of the North League, I express our immense closeness to the families affected by this pain. Imagine what they are feeling now and we do not have the words to truly describe a feeling of lively and profound solidarity. We are close not only to the families of the victims and the injured, but also to the whole community that was involved in this tragic fatality of very large proportions, which concerned the Municipalities of Refrontolo, Cison and Farra, Municipalities of an area in which we really did not imagine being able to see in a few minutes poured a quantity of water such as to cause the flooding of a stream, landslides and landslides. The people who were gathered in those places to celebrate an event have seen themselves overwhelmed in a completely unexpected way by a real avalanche of water, mud and debris. With this intervention I want first of all to express the pain we feel for what has happened, but also a feeling of thanks that we address to those who have assisted immediately and then throughout the night and yesterday. I am referring to all the personnel of the Police, the Carabinieri, the Fire Department and Civil Protection, as well as all the volunteers who have worked without sparing themselves. A true feeling of deep recognition and deep gratitude must be addressed to them. What I would also like to say is that here I am sorry to hear someone use this opportunity in an instrumental way - and I would also say in bad faith - to make unnecessary and instrumental polemics. Unfortunately, we note that such events happen nowadays and it is absurd that people lose their lives because of bad weather and bad weather conditions, albeit of exceptional and unexpected proportions. What we have repeatedly denounced in these classrooms and asked the government to finally put in hand a policy of long-term structural interventions for the settlement of our territory and for the prevention and its safety, because such incidents have occurred on many other occasions and continue to register. It is certainly not going to tamponare from time to time and to chase the emergency that you can think of solving them. Long-term strategies must be put in place and investment made, and we all know what needs to be done in terms of hydrogeological planning. I remember that the Veneto Region has asked the Government, already on the occasion of the last alluvial events that have hit our territory, to be able to have the availability of more than 2 billion euros already previewed so that a plan of conformation of the territory, adaptation and safety is put in place, that it is ready to start with cantierabile works for the figure of 850 million euros. However, we have not yet received an adequate response from the Government. I do not want to make controversy here, but I believe that the Veneto Region, against the 21 billion residual liabilities and against all the taxes that are paid by our Region to the Central Government, deserves an urgent response and immediate help with all the means and resources, for a prompt intervention that gives relief and support to families, businesses, the activities of the affected areas and the territories of those municipalities that find themselves strangled and in difficulty. It is not the first time that we ask for it and that we denounce the fact that compared to other areas of the Country the Veneto Region has not always and in a prompt way had adequate answers, although it has always been the Venetian population among the first to help other populations in similar disasters. We ask here and on this occasion that the Government immediately prepare for the interventions of aid and support. The area that was hit by the event the day before yesterday - and investigations and investigations are still underway to understand the extent of the damage - is really very extensive. I therefore hope that, not only all the Members of Parliament of the Veneto, but also all the political forces represented here will help and give support to the immediate activation of these intervention measures. I conclude by once again bringing solidarity and closeness to the families, hoping that soon news of the healing of the wounded people will arrive and with the hope that the Government will take note of what happened in order to put on the field the safety works necessary for the conformation of our territory. I repeat: Veneto asks and has already asked at the last events that the resources that are due to it be allocated; I hope this is the opportunity for the Government to realize that there is no more time to lose. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u17	Conte (NCD). Mr President, I also speak on behalf of my colleague, Mr Sacconi, from Treviso, to express first of all the condolences and closeness to the families who have been affected by this grievous event. I also express closeness to the municipal administration, which, just established, finds itself living a situation of great difficulty, because, beyond the mourning and tragedy that has occurred, with the loss of four human lives, there is also the problem of a series of damages that have occurred throughout the municipality and in the contermini zones. These are damages that are not unexpected because already for some time have been reported - it has been remembered also from the colleague Puppato - beyond 500 zones at risk of landslides throughout the foothills that goes from the west zone of the Municipality of Borso del Grappa to the east zone of the Municipality of Vittorio Veneto (it is an area of about 50 kilometers). We do not start from a situation from year zero: having been city council member of the Province of Treviso and having lived the phase in which the provincial urban plan was drawn up, I know that this had among its elements also a plan that identified the zones at risk hydrogeological. Indeed, these are densely built areas, so the risk of these accidents, which may have further tragic developments, is considerable. I believe it is our duty to do everything possible to move from what has been a plan that has identified the situations at risk to a concrete plan of interventions, for the restoration of damaged areas in these days, not only in the Municipality of Refrontolo but also in the Municipalities of Cison di Valmarino, Farra di Soligo, Pieve di Soligo, and for the damages occurred last night in the area of Crespano del Grappa and Borso del Grappa. These are actually significant damages that have occurred and that originate mainly in the abundant amount of precipitation that have affected the Province of Treviso and the Veneto Region in recent weeks. A territory already fragile in itself has therefore been put in this situation of great difficulty. I was saying before we have to try to find solutions. These are also situations that have already been identified; there are municipalities which have their own resources and which may be ready to take action, but unfortunately they are blocked by the constraints of the Stability Pact. Therefore, one of the first things I would like to ask this House - I also asked the President of the Council and the Minister for the Environment in a question - is precisely the possibility of derogating from the constraints of the Stability Pact in order to restore normality in the face of these situations which continue to be in danger, as well as creating numerous foreclosures to traffic transit. There are many economic activities that are unable to continue. We therefore need urgent action, we need to declare the state of disaster (and I did so in my question), but above all there is the need to finally move to a concrete and operational phase in order to restore normality in the face of these great risk situations. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u20	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I express solidarity and closeness on behalf of Forza Italia, as well as my staff, to the families affected by this very serious mourning. The Veneto Region has already been martyred by disastrous alluvial events, which have put a hard, hard trial a hard-working Veneto, that has never been discouraged, that has rolled up the sleeves and that has always proven to be able to start again. But we cannot always take into account the capacity of a population like that of Veneto to self-determine itself. We urgently need to carry out a serious monitoring of the territory and the holding of the hydrogeological system. We also need urgent action from the Government to meet the needs of this population, to meet the needs of the people. But we do not need interventions today, aimed at restoring normality, a necessary normality, but we need structural interventions capable not only of bringing our Veneto back to the normality of everyday life, but of giving certainty, security to our population so that events of this kind no longer have to repeat. Therefore, I want to urge the Government to work, in the sense of intervening immediately and in a structural way so that there are no more days like these beginning with a gesture of solidarity, but then, behind the wave of emotion, there is nothing left. I want measures to be taken today to ensure that these disasters do not occur again in our region. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u23	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I also live in Treviso, a kilometer from the river Piave, a sacred river to the country, which often still gives us problems of exondation. First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims and my thanks to all the forces of order and to the volunteers who are working to minimise the consequences. I had already had the honour and the burden of intervening on the occasion of the commemoration of Vajont a few months ago, and I explained a number of cases by saying that, if we do not intervene on them, making only commemorations is a hypocrisy. On this occasion too, I would like to talk about the causes and point out that every time we talk about exceptional events we are doing bad information. In fact, climate and weather experts have been saying for years that these situations will become more and more common due to the ongoing climate change. Here it is no longer necessary to wonder if the planet is actually overheating: very simply man's activities, for more than a century, have broken that very delicate climatic balance that has formed on the planet in millions of years of activity. For more than a century we have been putting in the air enormous quantities of gases, called clihalterants - the word already says everything - that have broken this very delicate balance. Just to explain to the citizens, whenever we turn on the car, have an industrial process or use a boiler, 60% of the energy we consume is not used to move the car or to carry out the production activity, but simply turns into heat. So the vast majority of what we do every day just feed heat, heat, heat into the atmosphere. Imagine a banal pressure cooker: if we continue to heat it, it is clear that at some point the valve opens and puffs. The events that have occurred in the last months in Sardinia, in Liguria and the day before yesterday in Refrontolo, are nothing more than the warnings that the atmosphere is too full of energy and must restore a balance. Understand the causes, we must move on to remedies and change our way of producing and consuming; otherwise we will continue to passively and blamefully assist in these situations. We need to change the way we produce and consume by ensuring that our activity is zero-impact, that is, we do not have to produce pollutants and carbon dioxide and we finally have to activate that concept, that Community principle expressed in a nutshell: those who pollute pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We can no longer accept that there is a word called "externality," which means: I, company, do what I want, create a series of problems but I do not manage them internally and turn them on the outside. And then we all pay, through these tributes that nature sometimes tragically proposes to us. This - I repeat - is a Community principle and the technologies to bring about this change are there and would even create hundreds of thousands of jobs, which we desperately need. Instead, we have gone to depreciate and depress one of the few supply chains in counter-trend since the 2008 crisis, precisely that of the energy efficiency of renewable sources; and this we do especially because of the pressures of the industrial and financial lobby that earn immense amounts and do not pay the damage they cause. We need to increase our level of energy efficiency, not to disperse the heat we use. We can no longer think that we can disperse the amount of heat and energy into the atmosphere. On the other hand, Mr President, let me say that we have been here for more than a week talking about institutional reforms that do not create a job, they do not go at all to fix that hydrogeological balance that we have lost. It is clear that the second side of the medal, in addition to climate change, is the abandonment, neglect of the territory and the hydrogeological reorganization that is lacking. As the 5 Star Movement, several months ago we had already had a press conference in which we denounced the situation and, together with the forest associations, we provided figures on the jobs that can be created if we take seriously to correct the planning of the territory. And I repeat: we are here talking about institutional reforms instead of thinking about the jobs that we can create with the hydrogeological reorganization of the territory and with energy efficiency and renewables. Everything else is hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u26	DE POLI (PI). Mr President, I too would like to express my closeness to the Marca Trevigiana community and my condolences to the families of those who are no longer there today, as well as my thanks to all the forces of order, civil protection and to all the volunteers and those people who worked day and night to help those who couldn't take it anymore, managing to bring out dozens of people who could have much more serious problems. The tragedy of Refrontolo must never happen again and I think it must make us think. We have also seen these tragedies in many other parts of Italy as well as in Veneto in recent months and a few years ago. I believe that this must be reflected in order to ensure that the preservation and maintenance of our territories are taken into account and implemented as a matter of urgency, starting from the simplest aspects of our territories, our municipalities, our small canals and our homes. Our dads and grandparents have taught us this, but perhaps, in the history of recent years, in many respects we have given priority to cementing and abandoning our countryside and safeguarding our territory. Today, more than ever, urgent action must be taken: for example, in our territory we calculate interventions for about EUR 2 billion that are needed to secure the territory and to do this, by us as in all the other parts of Italy, it is necessary to ensure that this type of work, as all the colleagues who have spoken, is outside the stability pact. Beyond the political and party aspects, I would very seriously like this House to have the memory of those who can no longer be here with us today. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u29	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, also on behalf of the Group for the Independents-PSI-MAIE, I would like to express our solidarity and sympathy for the families affected by this tragic accident and, of course, solidarity also goes to all the communities concerned. Beyond the reflections and solidarity, of course, the request to the Government to intervene immediately to bring help and support to ensure that the wounded can recover as soon as possible. It is necessary to reflect on what has happened. In particular, the Group of Autonomies has for months, within various legislative measures, emphasized the importance of intervening on the problem of the abandonment of the territory and that of the hydrogeological failure that is dramatically affecting our territory. A few weeks ago, I myself, with the Agriculture Commission, carried out a survey in the territories of Emilia affected by the floods and daily in this House we have to deal with these emergencies that unfortunately are forced to remain. Even in my last speech on environmental emergencies, I said that there are too many emergencies in this country and that we cannot solve them. So it is necessary to act upstream by finding solutions to prevent hydrogeological failure. From here, attention to the mountain, within the measures that continue to arrive in the Commissions. Inside the Senate Hall, I, together with my colleagues from the For the Autonomous Groups, particularly those from the mountain regions, continue to stress the need for special attention for the most difficult and fragile territories. These are territories that are at constant risk of depopulation; many are already depopulated and others are at risk of becoming one, if we do not succeed in putting in place particular regulations, to free them from the constraints of bureaucracy and to restore dignity to the populations that continue to remain, with great difficulty, in difficult conditions. Unfortunately, we are not always heard. On the contrary, I believe that neither the Commissions, nor the Government, nor Parliament can comprehend the difficulties facing the regions, the mountain regions and the unfortunately very high tendency of young people to abandon them today. And, without human garrison, the territory is destined to become uncontrolled and to be exposed to risks of hydrogeological failure everywhere. As an interparliamentary group, "Friends of the mountain" we have worked on this issue: a very profitable table has started with the undersecretary Bressa and with Minister Lanzetta and we are working on a link for the mountain. Within this connection, the attention to the territory and to hydrogeological prevention are among the fundamental themes. I hope that the Government is sensitive to these issues, that it can find the necessary resources and that it considers this as a real emergency of the national territory. Let's try to think for a moment what could have happened in Treviso and in the village of Croda di Refrontolo if this kind of water bomb had not hit only four people but caused a massacre. The number of people present was over a hundred and indeed the consequences could have been much more disastrous. I repeat once again the willingness of the Group for the Autonomies to cooperate and to bring proposals, also because of the experiences that each of us brings in their respective territories and the positive results achieved, for example, in the Regions with special status and in the autonomous provinces in preventing the failure; we are exposed every minute of our time to these dangers. I hope that the country will finally emerge from this emergency, which unfortunately often causes victims. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as senators of SEL and the whole of the Mixed Group, we want to express our solidarity with the families of the victims and the injured and with the communities that have been so severely affected. Of course, Mr President, like other Members, we also want to offer some reflections on this point, starting from the tragedy of Refrontolo. Unfortunately - alas - we are now obliged with an impressive frequency to devote some reflections in this House to the victims and tragedies of floods. Unfortunately, the day after the misfortunes we obviously witness the many announcements of the various governments that happen on the fact that from now on we will begin to seriously address the issue of prevention and then we will develop a plan for the hydrogeological failure. I have collected all the ministers and all the Heads of Government who have succeeded each other in recent years and the statements are in the end always the same. Unfortunately, however, all we do is witness a repetition of these tragedies, with a frequency that now makes sure that they are certainly no longer rare events, but have become ordinary. The same definition must also be revised: by now all the experts tell us that the so-called "extreme events" have become almost ordinary. I therefore believe that we can no longer allow ourselves, for the respect we owe to ourselves and, above all, to the many victims that have been there in recent times, not to take concrete decisions. As President Gasparri will remember, during the discussion of the law of stability (in conjunction with the flood in Sardinia) we fought together with other colleagues very important so that within that law the necessary resources for the plan against the hydrogeological failure were provided. Of course, things did not go as we wanted and now we are faced with interventions that, in my opinion, continue to be insufficient: without the determination to take decisions that are now indispensable for our territory. 80% of our territory is now in disarray, more or less serious. The problem, in the end, is not to identify responsibility for the individual event; but the whole of our territory is in such conditions that I believe we can no longer afford to continue to deal with the issue of failure with superficiality, as has happened so far. Mr President, we spend more than three and a half billion euros a year on emergency intervention. We think how much in all these years we would certainly have saved if we had begun to secure our territory. There is, however, another issue of the combination between the disruption of our territory, soil consumption and climate change, which are producing and will increasingly produce these effects. I believe that we can no longer ignore what some scientists now call climate chaos, mainly due to the effects of rising temperature. It is not a disquisition that we can leave to scientists: we must put in place mitigation and adaptation plans and, however, a real change of strategy from the energy point of view; which - as unfortunately shown by the competitiveness decree - the government does not intend to do. I hope that this tragedy can really, this time, make everyone understand that we must completely change the verse, invest in our territory in the works that serve and finally change strategy to tackle the climate change in place. [[Applause from the SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u35	Barani (GAL). Mr President, we, too, of course, take action to bring our solidarity to the victims and the wounded and to make a contribution of much more basic and not as challenging reflections as those that many of my colleagues have addressed. We do not intend to demagogically reflect on the hydrogeological failure, even if important, but more elementally on the normal maintenance of the watercourses: it would be enough to do as at the time of my childhood, when the citizens removed the wood that accumulated during the floods, cut the wild vegetation, kept the rivers, the streams and the channels clean, removing the gravel; therefore there was no overflooding. My colleague, Mr Rubbia, at the university, teaches that if there is a tank of capacity ten and five it is occupied by solid material, the liquid has 50 percent less capacity available; if the container is full up to 90 percent, it has only 10 percent. If even in the course of the rivers there are piles of mule piles higher than the embankment, they change forces against the banks and weaken them. I would remind you that the reference framework law is a royal decree of 1904 and that since then, that is to say, 110 years ago, Parliament has not issued a framework law on the maintenance of rivers and forests. By now, the rivers have become woods and forests rivers; there is no longer the peasant culture that recommended digging dimples between one property and another to regulate the water well and let it flow. These basic notions would be enough to significantly reduce the risk to our populations. I think there's watermelon policy involved, green outside and red inside. We must begin to intervene on the rivers like our ancestors, our fathers, our grandparents, who had the culture of keeping them clean and of not making them a container of bulky even solid that form dams and therefore favor the erosion of the banks. I think it is appropriate to redelegate the protection and cleanliness of the watercourses, now the responsibility of the Regions and the Civil Genio, to the municipalities that today can do nothing by allowing them, through the Stability Pact, to conclude conventions with the Civil Genio or with the Regions to intervene (since they know the territory) on the rivers because I believe that this is the real prevention. We must not always tear our clothes to pieces and blame the climate or hydrogeological failure. It would be enough of the simple maintenance that our parents, our grandparents well taught us but that we do not do for the so-called "culture of watermelon," green out and red inside, the real responsible. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u37	As President of the 8th Commission, Senator Alberti Casellati has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u38	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to make a request to the government, not out of controversy, because when I was a member of the governments I could not get it through. I think it would be appropriate for the government to examine the possibility of making the municipalities spend all the money available and which they have received for several years now, but which they cannot spend on hydrogeological planning because, in doing so, they would blow the Stability Pact. I would ask the government to consider this possibility so that, at least for environmental and hydrogeological issues, we can overcome the Stability Pact. There are billions available to the municipalities; some funding allocated by the Government between 2002 and 2006 and not yet spent, because the Stability Pact would be missed. If the government could do this, it would certainly not solve all the problems; but many of the flood phenomena recorded these days could be avoided. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u39	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, twenty years ago Giovanni Spadolini, a man of state who, like few others, tied his life and his experience to the Senate of the Republic, was missing. Elected senator at 47 years old, without any party militancy behind him, but with an already long journalistic career that had seen him also at the head of prestigious newspapers, such as "Il Resto del Carlino" and "Corriere della Sera" and a prestigious academic career of historian of the parties and institutions of contemporary Italy, had already built a strong bond with the Senate. In fact, very young he began to attend the Library of the Senate (which he wanted as President open to the public and in a new office, which was then named after him) and as professor he was several times a member of competition commissions for the selection of our officials, well before becoming senator. Senator was without interruption from 1972 to his death: elected in the ranks of the Republican Party before, and then, since 1991, senator for life. Statist and man of culture, Spadolini - as Leo Valiani wrote - is the highest symbol of the synthesis between culture and politics. A summary that, after long years of being President of the Education Commission of Palazzo Madama, led him to be the protagonist of the institution of the Ministry for Cultural and Environmental Heritage, a department of which he was the first holder. Strong of his profound knowledge of the political history of contemporary Italy, as head of public affairs he understood with foresight that the season of the Republic of the parties, of which he was also an undisputed and authoritative protagonist, was closing both from a political and institutional point of view. From this the centrality which for him had the need for a profound reform of the institutional mechanisms. Called by Sandro Pertini in 1981 to lead the Government, he wanted first of all to mark the autonomy of the Government institution and its leadership: the Presidency of the Council. As he had the saying in these classrooms: For those of us who move from an idea of the centrality of Parliament in the constitutional system there is no doubt that parliamentary institutions are institutions of government and that vice versa the Government - the Government in Parliament - is a parliamentary institution. "To an institutionally strong government" - continued Spadolini - "a strong parliament corresponds to a weak government corresponds to a weak parliament." In that same speech of August 1982, with which he presented his second government to the Chambers, he addressed the theme of a general update of our institutional framework and also of our Constitutional Charter, a Charter that, recalled Spadolini, è not come down from heaven and was not the result of the elaboration of a group of experts behind a desk, but represented the conquest of all the Italian people in the struggle for freedom. According to Spadolini, every update of those norms is assumed - that is, every revision of the Constitution - the involvement of all the parties that elaborated it, without excluding the contribution of new forces overlooking the Italian political scene and without claiming an impossible unanimousism that, moreover, on several important points, did not even come true to the Constituent. These words seem to me to be more current today than ever before. Spadolini's experience at the head of the government was brief. After being Minister of Defence, in July 1987 Spadolini crowned his career as a man of the institutions to the Presidency of this Assembly which he held during the X and XI legislature. Here he resumed the thread of that reform path that he had so far-sightedly begun in 1982. The result is the incisive revision of our 1988 Rules of Procedure, which President Spadolini himself had the opportunity to promote, in particular as regards the discipline of the secret vote, and the debate on the reform of bicameralism which ended with a text approved by the Senate in 1990, which, however, failed to conclude its process in the other branch of Parliament. Even then the positions of the parties that faced the Constitutional Affairs Committee under the chairmanship of Leopoldo Elia were very distant; even then not all the divisions were settled and the text did not express a broad unanimous position. After an in-depth and open discussion, however, it was necessary to make a choice between the various advanced hypotheses. But this choice was a fundamental turning point: as Spadolini effectively wrote then, it was in fact the first form of self-judgment and self-correction that Parliament has given of itself in over 40 years. That date from the Senate - Spadolini continued - is a response to all those who, on many sides, mock Parliament's ability to modify an institutional regulatory framework that undoubtedly needs profound changes. I believe that remembering these words and that experience is the best way to pay tribute today, in this House, to the figure of Giovanni Spadolini. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u40	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1582: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 90 of 24 June 2014, introducing urgent measures for simplification and administrative transparency and for the efficiency of judicial offices" already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 1 August the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Pagliari, if you're going to intervene. Mr Pagliari, draftsman of the opinion. Mr President, I confirm the opinion given to the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u43	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have followed the whole process of this decree carefully, we confirm all our concerns, because in our opinion, and today's news confirms this, that a decree that should have the ambition to reform public administration does not have urgent requirements. We continue, in fact, once again, to use the decree of urgency to approve norms that the Government is not able to issue in an ordinary way. We then ask ourselves where is the urgency of this decree, whether there are the conditions for constitutionality and where is the extraordinary nature of legislative intervention, where it is expected, on the basis of Article 77 of the Constitution, that the government should intervene. Yet in this House we have had a debate many times in the light of the many censures of the Constitutional Court and the many calls of the President of the Republic. I remember, and we all remember, a long session on 28 December 2013, in which we discussed for a long time a letter sent by the President of the Republic, which contained a reference to the homogeneity of the decrees and therefore to compliance with the constitutional requirements. We consider this decree an important measure, for the rules it should have dealt with, to be dealt with in this way, because it is a decree that appears as the sum of so many important measures. We had welcomed the approval in the House of Deputies of the famous amendment to quota 96. The President of the Budget Committee, Boccia, had declared that the necessary cover was in place. Then we ask ourselves - and I immediately take the opportunity to ask - who is lying in this situation. Who told a lie, to use the language so dear to the government? In fact, the rapid approval of the decree that was also required of us, confirming the reference to Article 77 of the Constitution, was linked to the fact that 4,000 school workers could, in very fast times, have seen their right to retirement recognized, since they could have chosen to retire by August 30. The news, widespread, had raised a lot of expectations in the world of school, because it would have concerned not only the 4,000 workers directly involved, but also many precarious people who had glimpsed in that retirement a further opportunity to stabilize. On the other hand, we have discussed this matter too many times in this House - I see Mrs Giannini here - with amendments and agendas that all the groups have presented across the board and we expected a positive signal from this Government. The President-in-Office of the Council had in fact presented the guidelines for his term of office when he spoke of the school. Then we thought that that announcement, so striking, could achieve a first concrete fact, which we did not find. We wonder if, instead of continuing in this way, perhaps today a reform of the public administration should not be done through an ordinary procedure and follow a different path that can first repair the vulnus that have been created, but above all that it can really proceed, as the Constitution indicates us, to reform such an important sector of the State. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u44	. I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, the decree-law in question, in our view, does not meet the requirements laid down in Article 77 of the second paragraph of the Constitution for the application of the decree-law. This is because - as my colleague Mrs Petraglia has just concluded - the decree certainly presents itself with necessary interventions, but equally certainly with interventions that define urgent, but above all homogeneous between them, is an expression of great fantasy. I understand that lies are being invented virtual worlds, but I remember that in this very Chamber Minister Boschi mentioned a quote from Amintore Fanfani in politics the lies are not needed. What lies have been told, for example, to those who have been deceived by the trust placed by the Renzi Executive itself to a decree-law that today comes to be, in all probability, subject to other confidence, after the Commission has proposed four amendments (abrogatives of some articles) when it had already obtained the confidence just a few days ago in the House? I do not know if I have been able to explain, but the principle of identity and that of non-contradiction, at the time studied and brought to the attention of all human beings, rational and normal, from Parmenide and Aristotle, are precisely disregarded: first we ask the House for confidence to make a derogation from the Fornero law and then, after a few days, we go to the Senate and we ask for confidence in a text from which those same amendments were expunged that went by way of derogation from the Fornero law. I would like to understand all of us, Italian citizens, with whom we are dealing: the first requirement that must have the interlocutor of a rationally founded debate must be the credibility that is gained with consistency, with the maintenance of logical principles that all give equal value. You who recall Fanfani then, at the same time, trample on his words, because he first disproves it. And I'm not just talking about the 96th rate for public school teachers. In this decree, in fact, they nest themselves - using the words of Senator Pietro Ichino - flashing examples of inequality when, having found, for them, the necessary financial coverage, it is granted to journalists the possibility to derogate from what is established by the Fornero law, which - I repeat - has been voted by all of you, and now instead you ask to derogate from it. Pietro Ichino, in the course of his examination by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, reiterated that there was no understanding of the ratio in terms of fairness for which action should be taken in favour of a particular category of workers, i.e. journalists. Then I wonder if perhaps journalists should be protected more than other workers, more than nurses, more than public security workers, more than teachers. Perhaps so, because journalists, being the expression and expansion of the system of power that you represent, must also be protected. First of all, I would like to ask for justice to be done on this matter too, which has been brought to Parliament's attention by a senator who is himself a majority. Have the courage to address these issues. I am sorry that, as usual, the President of the Council is not here because, apart from formal, procedural and certainly impeccable data from a substantial point of view, the problem is of an economic nature. As we all know, public finances are going very, very quickly, but not in the direction proposed by the President-in-Office of the Council: remember when he said that they prudently set the target of GDP growth at 0.8, sure that they are positively denied because we would have grown much more? Well, we heard on Wednesday that you expect a hail from ISTAT in relation to the growth rate of our GDP. Then, why not, for example, collect the invitations of a certain Fassina, not Fassina chi?, who writes on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] , published today, with which it recalls that perhaps this Government should commit much more than it has done, that is nothing, on the issue of the fight against tax evasion, which is probably 17-18 percent of the official GDP. On these issues we would like a reasonable commitment and not a word from the Commission, but on them the Commission is always fugitive, not to mention absent. A fugitive perhaps sounds better, because he is fugitive in the face of his moral commitments, as well as his political commitments with those who voted for the government parties, fulfilling the words of the President of the Council delivered on 23 May - perhaps because a few days later there was an important electoral round - according to which the 80 euro bonus would also be extended to other categories, such as the incapienti and pensioners. In fact, it would have been extremely unfair to guarantee it to some and not others, perhaps even more unfortunate and needy. But the voters will then have to agree to that. Finally, I remind everyone of what has been unveilingly - or perhaps probably - written in the official daily newspaper of the PD, i.e. "the Republic" (since "the Unity" ceased the publications, as we all know, a few days ago), by Eugenio Scalfari, who, just yesterday, informed the reader - and not only - that perhaps we should entrust ourselves to the troika. I do not want to comment on this exhortation, I would first of all entrust myself to serious rulers: evidently, if Scalfari relies on the troika, those we have so serious are not. I would remind myself that in another interview our President-in-Office of the Council - who, rather than taking action, is committed to giving interviews - argued that it was irrelevant for the daily lives of Italians that the increase in GDP was 0.4, 0.8 or 1.5%: so much Italians do not perceive. But those 4,000 of my former colleagues who worked like me in the school and thought they could retire and then under the Fornero law this alleged right if they are denied, until a few days ago they had the legitimate expectation - because you allowed it - to caress the idea of the pension from 1 September 2014. For a measure that the same president of the Budget Committee of the House, Boccia, had assured to have the necessary cover (it is, if I remember correctly, 417 million euros). You, within a few days, first say yes and then no: it is you who are sending the country to ruin! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is you who must first assume the responsibility to tell the truth to the Italians, because truth and justice are not irreconcilable demands but complementary, but because you are very little interested in justice, it is equally little interested in the truth, and therefore also in terms of public budget continue to rape Amintore Fanfani continuing to tell lies! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u47	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are still here: not later than Friday we have commented on the ritual - now habitual - absence of the constitutional requirements of the decree for the prison emergency. We are in the 16th decree of the Venetian era and, once again, President, we must see that there is a total lack of constitutional presuppositions that legitimize an exceptional activity - I stress - of the government of a legislative nature. We in the Forza Italia Group, of which we naturally vote firmly against the legitimacy of the constitutional conditions that are lacking (and therefore contrary to the opinion of the 1st Commission, which once again fails to have its own constitutional filter), do not need to remember how fundamental it is, not only for the principle of separation of powers but also, for an elementary respect for the characteristics of our form of government, for Parliament to make the laws and the government to deal with the political direction. The legislative activity of the Government must be exceptional; this Government is so aware of it that when President Renzi - I remember very well - came to list us, not long ago (we are on the thirteenth day of his Government's activity), his chronoprogram, moreover substantially unexpected, told us that he would not abuse the instrument of the decree of urgency. Unfortunately, that is not the case. We must legitimise, certainly not for our part, we must undergo a sequence of decrees that are all lacking in the presuppositions of constitutionality that would make them lawful. Once again, we have to find out how far this measure has in its own way totally uneven arrangements with respect to each other. Alas, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to quote you - I should be bored once again, since we have mentioned you so much that we could send you to memory if you wake up suddenly during the night - the copious constitutional jurisprudence that tells us that an emergency measure must be characterized by an objective and functional link that keeps you together, that unites all its dispositions. It cannot go from the telematic process in the civil jurisdiction at Expo 2015 (which is now like the black color, it goes on everything, we find it in every provision of this Government, moreover they are all decree-laws for which we do not struggle to find Expo 2015); we cannot talk about the specialty schools of the medical sector and at the same time of the transfusions of infected blood; we cannot think that the public word is sufficient in itself to unite all these totally heterogeneous, uneven, through a bond of homogeneity. It's not like that. This provision is, as always, an omnibus. And here, colleagues, let me have a little inscription. We all know that we learn for comparison, not only of the present and of the future but also of the past: if our Government had allowed itself to issue decrees so clearly lacking in the presuppositions of constitutionality, surely certain red and blue pencils would not have failed to trace their signs. On the other hand, once again, also this decree that was born as a public administration decree, split after about twenty days of parking at the Quirinale - but unfortunately not made, through this unpacking, more homogeneous - has passed free through all the filters of constitutionality [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , just like his twin, the competitiveness decree, which is hoped the government will withdraw (so we have heard, but perhaps not true), and it would not be bad if this too were withdrawn. But, alas, the activity of the decree of urgency that distinguishes the Renzi Government cannot but be characterized by these pathologies. With regard to unevenness we have already said - and it is not necessary to quote judgments that inevitably, from 1996 to 2012, tell us how this is an indispensable prerequisite for making a legitimate decree - but what about necessity and urgency. Minister Madia, we are at the fourth reform of public administration: Cassese, Bassanini, Brunetta: of these reforms still remain implementing decrees to be issued. The precedents still have to be implemented. Do we want to talk about necessity and urgency? And to return to a reference made earlier to a provision contained in the decree, how urgent are the rules governing the schools of vocational training of doctors? Just to give an example. How urgent are the arrangements we find in this provision? How repeated, not to say stratified, are the measures on the telematic process? Even at the beginning of the previous legislature there was talk about it and there are still acts of secondary standardization that must be enacted by the government on old measures. Colleagues, we have already understood that we are faced with yet another abuse, yet another expropriation of legislative activity by the Government towards Parliament, against all of us. And this we cannot fail to stress and stigmatize. In addition - we have made this clear in the Commission, and unfortunately we have been easy to do - this measure is characterized by another profile of constitutional illegitimacy: under Article 81 of the Constitution, it lacked cover. I say "missed" because, appropriately, they were put in place, deposited and accepted, it happens, only those amendments of the Government that have eliminated significant and, I must say, very advertised aspects of this decree (specifically the famous "quota 96"), totally lacking in financial coverage. On these aspects, however, there had been a surge of shields not on the part - and here too it must borrow an ornithological jargon so dear to our President of the Council - of the usual "gufi" but on the part of the officials and technicians of the House and the Senate, by the General Accounting Office of the State, by the Ministry of Economy itself, which had pointed out that it was not possible to cover new expenditure with expenditure cuts not yet implemented. Alas, as punctual as fate, this constitutional illegitimacy, which we had stigmatized in the Commission, was punctually confirmed by the action of the Government. It is rather unfortunate - let me say this - that we did not very welcome - I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group - because, once again, we in the Commission have had to accept a 'already made', to endorse the 'already said', to have to see a sequence of cassations, rejections of amendments that had been put in place with the usual improvement and collaboration with respect to a very ill-designed measure that does not make public administration more efficient, neither more transparent, nor simpler. Alas, all this has been done in the Commission, and unfortunately also in this House: once again, in fact, we do not need to be cousin sybils, but we are easy prophets, we recommend with great ease the next confidence that this decree will also suffer. Therefore, once again we will be faced with an imposition, which we do not share and do not want to share, of which we do not want to be complicit, because - let us remember - in addition to the Quirinale, the Government filter, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Parliament is also the guarantor of the constitutionality of the measures. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that this law of conversion of decree-law, which is not constitutionally legitimate in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, will also be spoiled by subsequent scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. Having said that, and for all the reasons which have already been expressed and on which I will not dwell any further, because - alas - we have already said so much and we will also be forced to say in the future, we express our opinion absolutely contrary to the opinion of the 1st Commission, which endorses the constitutional legitimacy of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u50	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to tell you something new. According to the Constitution, the laws must make it Parliament. The thing I've learned, working here in the Senate, is that what should be a particular case, linked to particular situations of necessity and urgency, is the norm. The government replaces the measures it could and should do, i.e. the draft law, with the decree-laws. The latter, however, should have characteristics, in addition to the need and urgency of all the rules contained therein. They should also deal with homogeneous matters, and this is also to allow, given the limited time we have available to examine and convert them, an in-depth analysis by all the parliamentary representatives, therefore by the Members of the House but also by us here in the Senate. This is not the case. As the government's activity is set, that is, the executive power, we already have a sort of de facto monocameralism: in fact a decree is examined very carefully in one Chamber while in the other, given the tight times and the large amount of matters touched, passes quickly, possibly with confidence. Taking the opportunity to say that this decree does not have the characteristics required by the Constitution to be converted, I am pleased at this moment, noting the link existing between the way in which the Government operates, which it does not execute but basically legislates, and what we want to do with the reform that we are dealing with in this same period. From a government that has exonerated its competences, and instead of enforcing laws and implementing them, it makes new ones (so much so that we are full of new laws), we move to a government that intends to crystallize such distortions in the Constitution, defining the maximum time for implementing measures of important aspects of the government program, as provided for by the draft law of constitutional reform dismissed by the Commission. That is to say that what has been happening for years now is crystallizing in the Constitution, that is, Parliament's expelling from its powers, so that Parliament no longer legislates but simply puts the stamp on what the Government has decided, analyzing in a hasty way laws that are fundamental to people's lives. How long can this kind of attitude be maintained and what is the productivity for the citizens who keep us here in Rome in this way of operation? What kind of Republic are we going to? What kind of political leadership do we offer the country? I think I can say that, rather than changing to change, we are speeding up the way policy has worked in recent years!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u51	I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 90. It's approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u52	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at the sitting of Friday 1 August the examination of Article 2 and the amendments tabled to it was concluded. I would like to take this opportunity to inform my colleagues that Senator Calderoli was grieved by the death of his mother. I believe I interpret the sentiments of the whole House in addressing the sentiments of condolence to Senator Calderoli. However, our work will continue with the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro. I take this opportunity to extend my condolences to Senators Micheloni and Maturani, because their families have also been affected by mourning events. Before moving on to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 3, it is necessary to wait for the presence of Senator Finocchiaro, momentarily absent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u54	You have the floor, although we are waiting for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u55	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, while waiting for the rapporteur, the 5 Star Movement Group confirms that this piece of reform does not deserve the participation of the opposition... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u56	Language is not the right language. Your assessment, however, was known. Language, as the Presidency has made clear... Okay, but you did have the floor, Senator Petrocelli. PETROCELLI (M5S). The legitimacy of this House... [[The microphone is switched off]] The presidency now has the floor. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.36 p.m. and resumed at 3.42 p.m.) The session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to explain the whole of the amendments to Article 3, which essentially concerns the issue of presidential senators. Our proposal is twofold: some of the amendments we are proposing are deleted; with another amendment, on 3.14, we believe that Article 59 of the Constitution can be amended in the sense that it is a senator of law and life, except for renunciation, only those who have been President of the Republic. We have tabled a number of amendments which may seem to some people not to be very legislative, but which, as far as we are concerned, are regulatory. In fact, they set and indicate the age of the presidential senators, for a reasoning that I have also made within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that concerns the nature of the office, which we believe must be bound by the fact that we have already explained the Homeland. It must be avoided that these senators, perhaps too young, can be or become an element of conditioning for others, futures, career advancements. Mr President, this is a very sensitive issue. The call is to realise that the amendments we have tabled on age are not serial or lack of regulatory scope, but they want to send a clear and precise message. Apart from that, of course, we believe that there can be no, in a non-elective Senate, even five senators appointed for seven years, which would make up five percent - a true party - of that House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u58	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 3.24, which seeks to eliminate the possibility for those who have been President of the Republic to be appointed Senator of Law and Life. I would like to make two small reflections. The first is the presence and the duty laid down in the Constitution - and I thank the Commission for accepting my amendment - to participate in the work of this House. I do not know in the past, but in the current parliamentary term it does not seem to me that the senators for life, either for health reasons, or for other reasons, have made a constructive contribution to our work. With regard to the former Presidents of the Republic, they were very often called to trust a government. But since this House will not be called to express trust, I think they no longer have this usefulness that more majorities have used in the past. I therefore think that this issue should be deepened and that future former Presidents of the Republic should not become senators for life. They will certainly be able to make their contribution as they have done so far, but not in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to explain to you the meaning of Amendments Nos 3.21 and 3.23 (text 2) which I have tabled in Article 3 hoping to find some of your attention, because they are paradigmatic to the various amending proposals that have already been tabled before in the Commission and then in this House, and they are both an expression of a reflection which aims to strengthen competences in the Senate in certain specific areas. This is a reflection that has raised interest and feedback from some constitutionalists, intellectuals, the press and so-called civil society, but I realize that unfortunately it has not warmed up the minds of this House very little. I must also add that confronting the reality of constitutional reform and above all the climate with which we are proceeding to its first approval is a new experience for me, but quite disappointing. Even by restricting the field to the composition of the Senate, and even more to the component of presidential nomination, I cannot fail to observe how, from my point of view, many of the initial hopes have been lost. I would therefore like to explain to you the attempt to make these proposals by submitting two reflections to you. With the first, I would like to stress that the heart of the amendments I have tabled is to better design, consolidate and implement the competences of the presidential senators, therefore of senators who, in my opinion and without wishing to exclude anyone, should perhaps be deprived of party affiliations, precisely in order to provide another vision compared to the reflections brought by members of political representatives and so that the choice of these five senators can benefit the whole House, whatever the final features that Parliament will want to give to this Senate. I had therefore imagined that alongside the political competences and the various cultural areas already present in this House there could also be a stronger number (actually, I was hoping more than the one now considered) of senators with specific and very high skills in science, technology and innovation. These are competences that almost never enter the democratic representation circuits, for obvious reasons, and I believe that this is a damage. In my opinion, the reason is that these are difficult, complex, high-speed and renewal skills, which must be understood and developed together with policy with a daily work of fertilization and mutual understanding. I have already said in this House that hearings are certainly important, but they are not enough - in my opinion - to properly bring back such complex competences to a Parliamentary House with the very difficult attention due to their inherent complexity. We have had continuous examples and there are also ad hoc international studies that confirm this. That's why I think it's important to strengthen the concept that those five senators are chosen from among the protagonists of innovation, because only they can help shape from within the legislative policies that can transform scientific achievements into social improvements. I believe that every Member of Parliament should try, perhaps a little humbly, to think about the mistakes that have been made even recently, about how Parliament has come absolutely unprepared on many issues that concern its own science, innovation and technology. My concern, ladies and gentlemen, is not that a Member has not been able to distinguish a stamina from a handful of debris, but it is a real and proven concern that does not have the mechanisms to distinguish a trivial scam from medicine. It means that policy does not always have the tools to act and react to the challenges of knowledge and innovation. Not understanding and denying it means not knowing how to protect citizens and not knowing how to innovate, where instead we are faced with a real scientific achievement. That is why I had proposed a slight increase in the number of such competent senators in these areas, imagining the disciplines of knowledge that should be present (I had tabled amendments but then withdrew). That is why I now ask you to consider Amendment 3.21 (or Amendment 3.23, in the reworded text), by which I have tried to imagine at least how the choice of the President of the five senators is not confined to his important and exclusive sensitivity, but is governed by subsequent constitutional law that dictates the procedures and requirements for the identification of citizens who actually possess the qualities referred to in Article 59 of the Constitution. In concrete terms, I have imagined the need for a specific reflection by Parliament on this subject, providing that the criteria and methods of choosing the nominations - while remaining in the availability of the President of the Republic - are identified with subsequent constitutional law, and, in the immediate transitory way, that the exercise of the power of presidential appointment is tempered, to a more or less strict extent, by a collaboration - for example - with the Accademia dei Lincei, as the maximum Italian cultural institution. Founded in 1603 by Federico Cesi, this Academy is the oldest scientific academy in the world: it became one of its first members Galileo Galilei and since 1992 has been a scientific and cultural consultant of the Presidency of the Republic. The Assembly in united classes of this Academy covers the entire complex of scientific and humanistic culture. I have therefore imagined two ways of competing in the choice of the President in the transitional phase: in the first, the Accademia dei Lincei in united classes prepares a list of names from which the President of the Republic proceeds to the nomination of senators; in the second, the President of the Republic submits to the opinion of the Accademia dei Lincei a list of personalities - precisely - for an opinion. This proposal, like all, absolutely perfectible, in my opinion, would have the merit of not giving up entirely the idea of a Senate that is also a bit 'the place of knowledge and specialist skills, postponing over time a more in-depth discussion of the exceptional complexities of the technical and scientific challenges with which parliamentary democracy is destined to try more and more frequently. I have a second general reflection, sad for me, which I shall clarify with practical examples. The intention with the appointment of these five senators from perhaps less political areas is to incorporate their competences into the new Senate. Let's try some simulations. In other words, let us imagine that there is an established professional who excels in his field worldwide, specialized in mathematical logic, whose specialties are sought after by organizations or countries, or a professional specialized in probability calculations or quantum physics, who is 40, 50 years old working in a public institution together with his group. To do that work in that public agency he has given up offers from other bodies and is therefore developing ways to challenge the world on renewable energy, in astrophysics, in nanotechnology. Maybe in his future there's a chance to run the Max Planck in Germany. Well, we tell him to come to the new Senate instead, but we also tell him that he will not work too hard in the new Senate. That professional would like and above all could be extremely useful to his country that calls him, but as he calls him his country also tells him not to do too much, that he will not be paid, that the tickets of the trains will still be refunded, that he will sit next to municipal and regional councillors, these yes paid, from the institution of origin for the civil service absolved. You see, asking these Italian colleagues who are participating in designing excellence in the world to sit here not to work too much is humiliating, and once again reveals to me how much a good part of politics actually wants to do without many skills to decide independently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've run out of time, Senator, I ask you kindly to conclude. CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I should like to conclude by addressing the last sentence to Senator Calderoli, who on 14 July, in his illustration of the reform, expressly welcomed the fact that the 21 Presidential Senators have disappeared in the text drawn up by the Commission. He was equally pleased to say that not only will the remaining five remain in office for seven years, but they are all-inclusive in terms of number and at the present time - I think no one has noticed - we have also forgotten to give him the salary, so they will not receive anything anymore. I welcome this 'forgetfulness', which also applies to the former Presidents of the Republic, and I believe that it says a lot about the consideration that this House, Parliament and the Government will want for these particular senators. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to these amendments and I would like to thank those of you who are going to support them with the vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak about the amendments tabled by Senator Cattaneo, asking for clarification. I would like to add my signature to Amendment 3.23, which seems to me quite correct to introduce this novelty of the scientific personalities that can make a contribution, especially at this specific stage of our history and progress that is continuing to progress. It seems to me that this proposal maintains, but I would like to make it clear that the senators of life chosen by the President of the Republic are also present. If that is the case, and I believe it is confirmed by my colleague, I would ask that my signature be added to Amendment 3,23.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u61	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u62	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments referred to in Article 3, otherwise I am against, including the rewording of amendment 3.23, signed by Senator Cattaneo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u63	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u65	You have the right to do so. On your feet, though, if you ask for the floor. It is the Rules of Procedure that provide for this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u66	[[Comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). What a regulation! It's rag paper! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please speak, Senator. Montevecchi (M5S). I take advantage of my ability to give up speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u69	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u70	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator D'Anna, identical to amendments 3.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 3.3 tabled by Senator Minzolini, 3.4 tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators, 3.5 tabled by Senator Bruni and other Senators, 3.6 tabled by Senator Longo Eva, 3.7 tabled by Senator Milo, 3.8 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco, and 3.9 tabled by Senator Mussini and other Senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Minzolini and other Senators, identical to Amendments 3.11, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other Senators, 3.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 3.13, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, up to the word "Republic". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.15 and Amendment 3.14 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3.17, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.20 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u73	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to all the amendments signed by Senator Cattaneo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u74	Does she subscribe to the amendments signed by Senator Cattaneo, with the exception of Amendments 3.20 and 3.22, which have been withdrawn? IN MAY (PI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.21.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u77	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I will vote in favour of Amendment No 3.21, because competence is an issue which, in my opinion, has been unmotivated by the work of the Commission and the work of the rapporteurs. In fact, the very important attempt, made by Senator Cattaneo, goes precisely in the sense of establishing the criteria of this choice so as not to make it an arbitrary decision and - so to speak - a royal decision of the President of the Republic, but rather a practical and productive choice that brings in a structure, in a maximum institution of the State, those competences of which Italy is particularly rich and which can be reported by the Accademia del Lincei to the President of the Republic. From this point of view, I believe that the vote in favour of this amendment marks a useful point and criticism for the forthcoming readings of how we have worked so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u80	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the PD Group will vote against Amendment 3.21. The first assessment that needs to be made in this regard is that the autonomy of the constitutional bodies cannot be conditioned, as is intended by the amendment in question, by the nominations by the Academy of Linceans. Secondly, if we had, in the reform, a Senate with a specifically scientific function, we could also understand the type of indication made. In this context, this indication is not consistent with our constitutional system, which - as Article 1 says - provides that sovereignty belongs to the whole people. And the people are all made of science and knowledge, but also of other arts and professions. Therefore, in this logic one does not have the primacy of one category over another politically. On the other hand, the cooperation of all categories and the dimension of the political role of Parliament must be assumed by the representatives of the people. In this representation there are also the very authoritative voices of science which, however, for this only fact, do not - with all respect - have a legitimacy that determines their access to this function by a privileged way or without passing through the ordinary framework of the choice of representatives of the people. After that, from this point of view, it is certainly the task of politics to open up to the collaborations of science, but it is also the task of science to open up to collaborations with politics, in a relationship that respects roles, personalities and individuality. Certainly there are different levels of science and ability, but this does not allow judgements in any way that prefigure preferential and privileged roles when it comes to the polis government. In the polis government there is first of all a problem of the overall solidarity of the entire population and then, for each category, their role and function must be played - as the Constitution says - in a context of solidarity and of supposed difference. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u83	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to ask you to subscribe to Mr Cattaneo's amendments 3.21, 3.22 and 3.23 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that Amendment 3.22 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u86	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I too am speaking to support Senator Cattaneo's amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u89	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to explain my group's vote against, although I appreciate the understanding of Mr Cattaneo's amendments, with one consideration. The Accademia dei Lincei renews its members essentially through a co-opting mechanism. Now, it does not seem appropriate that the choice of senators for life should go through a mechanism which, while justifying itself in the statute of an ancient academy, may not be entirely appropriate in relation to the choice of members of the Senate. That is why my group's colleagues and I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u90	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Cattaneo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.22 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.23 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cattaneo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u93	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, in view of what I have also said in the general debate, in my opinion (if you want to maintain a right to the former President of the Republic), it would then be more correct, at this point, to make him a member of parliament for life, since the composition of the new Senate will deal with autonomy. Perhaps such a context could make a greater contribution to the House of Deputies. I hope that the rapporteur will be able to assess my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u94	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senators Baptist and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Scilipoti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "not less than". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.30 and amendments 3.31 to 3.50 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.51, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.52, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.53, tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.55, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 3.56, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Scilipoti's calls.]] I'm sorry, Senator Scilipoti, but the vote is closed. However, we take note of your presence. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.57, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.58, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 3.59, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.60, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "social." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.60 and Amendments 3.61 and 3.62 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.63, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.64, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.66, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.67, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.69, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.70, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.71, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3.72, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.73, tabled by Senators Palma and Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.74, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.75, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "with the following wording." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.75 and amendments 3.76 to 3.79 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3.80 tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.81, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.82 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.83, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 3.84, tabled by Senator Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,85 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 3,86 tabled by Senator D'Anna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,87 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3,88 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,89 tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.90, tabled by Senator Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u97	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I rise for an explanation of vote against this article and also raise the following problem. The question of presidential senators, kept in fact within the new Senate, seems to me particularly pressing with what will happen to elected senators abroad who, in fact, will no longer be there. They can only legitimately be represented in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, since citizens residing abroad, regularly enrolled in AIRE, should have the right to be represented, some mechanism will have to be considered to guarantee them the possibility of being represented, even in a Senate of the Regions composed of elected representatives within the council members elected within the Regional Councils and therefore municipal elections. The same rights must therefore be enjoyed by these citizens residing abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u98	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u99	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u100	Mr President, Amendment 4.9 is very clear, in the sense that it once again proposes an elective Senate. It is true that this seems to be a concept we have already considered, but I believe that in this matter of voting on Articles 1 and 2 there are many things that have not been said and that have been...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u101	In fact, it will be declared foreclosed - I was surprised that you yourself asked to explain this - as a result of the vote on Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u102	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Since you, unexpectedly or generously, leave me room to explain my amendment, which will still be foreclosed, I take advantage of it to say those few concepts that I have not been able to emphasize at other times and in other circumstances. It seems to me that this is a bit of a tale of removals, a story in which there have been so many things removed, since some contradictory aspects have been removed several times highlighted, and that they will be even more so. A Senate to which the subjects added by the amendment adopted by secret vote will also be responsible will have to ask itself what possibility and what effective operation it will have. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Mussini. Your group has run out of time. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u103	I call on all the amendments referred to in Article 4 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u104	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4.1, which is identical to Amendments Nos 4.2 and 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u108	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u109	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendments 4.2, tabled by Senator Campanella, and 4.3, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 4.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 4.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 4.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.9 and 4.10 are precluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to amendments 4.15, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Tarquinio, 4.16, tabled by Senator Bruni and other Senators, 4.17, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other Senators, 4.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 4.19, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 4.20, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on amendment 4.0.100. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.0.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 4.0.3 and amendment 4.0.4. are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u110	Mr President, I shall give a very brief explanation of Amendment 5.0.1 just to indicate the subject it is dealing with. It intervenes on Article 65 of the Constitution and in particular proposes to add a rule after the same article which concerns the prediction of cases of incandidability, ineligibility and incompatibility with the office of Member and Senator, specifying cases of conflict of interest. This is a matter which has recently, and not only recently, affected Parliament in depth and with considerable clashes, and it would be appropriate for such issues, precisely because of the social, political and ethical effects they have, to be foreseen by the Constitution, giving the law to determine the cases of incandidability, ineligibility and incompatibility and specifying in a concrete way also cases of conflict of interest. This is amendment 5.0.1, which is proposed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u111	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u114	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification. In the text proposed by the Commission, a sentence has been removed which is currently contained in our Constitution in Article 65, namely: No one may belong at the same time to the two Rooms. I would ask if it would no longer make sense to keep this wording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are now dealing with the amendments that are being voted on, Senator Battista.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u117	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I am referring to what Mr Battista said. Considering that in Italy the mayors of the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants can become deputies, nothing prevents the same mayor, who is elected as mayor, then can be elected senator, at the same time holding the positions of mayor, senator and deputy. If you do not explicitly indicate that you cannot belong to the two rooms at the same time, perhaps there is this risk. I therefore expect the rapporteur to clarify this point. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now we're on another point. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u118	Mr President, I would like to make an invitation to withdraw or, if not, to vote against all the amendments. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to say something that I did not say at the beginning. As my colleagues know, Roberto Calderoli cannot be here this afternoon. Since, as we proceed with the work, we will meet with the rewording of Articles 70 and 71, that is, the heart of the measure as regards the legislative functions of the Senate, I would ask the House to be able to close the votes until Article 9, including, in order to refer then to the sitting in which Senator Calderoli, co-rapporteur, will also be present, the task of examining the rest of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u119	Now we're in Article 5, Senator Finocchiaro. Then we will eventually pass on to the examination of the decree-law: there is always something to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u120	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u123	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we agree with the proposal by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, and we would add that, although the other groups agree, the sitting could continue with the examination of the decree-law on public administration. I would also like to ask that the votes of all the amendments tabled in Article 5 be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u124	As you know, according to the timetable, the Presidency is entitled to include on the agenda the debate on the decree-laws on the agenda and will certainly avail itself of this option when we arrive at Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u127	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we also agree with Senator Finocchiaro's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u128	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator D'Alì, identical to amendments 5.2, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio, and 5.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.10, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I should like to point out that I wanted to vote against Amendment 5.13. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, we record your vote against. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u129	Mr President, with regard to Amendments 6.11 and 6.10 I would just like to point out that the rapporteurs say that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Members guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities; rightly so (since I do not know what will be done with this electoral law) and rightly refer to the Rules of Procedure, because the Regulations have to guarantee this. Too bad that in all subsequent articles other aspects are included in the Constitution which, instead, in line with the principles with which a Constitution is written, should be within the Regulations. I merely point out once again that this text is, in the end, a birth full of contradictions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u130	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 6.0.2 which makes it possible for the law to determine the cases of forfeiture due to unjustified absence and repeated by parliamentary work. Since we have included in the Constitution the duty of Members of Parliament to participate in the work of this House, I would point out that there are two of our colleagues in this House who have 99.79 percent absences (11 out of 5,265 votes); another colleague of ours has 94.81 percent absences; in third place there is a colleague who has 80% absences. There should be a debate here. Do we believe that it is right to set an example for the citizens who keep our seats and can we continue to be parliamentarians even with 99% absent? [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u131	Time's up, Senator. We are here to explain the amendments, not to check the attendance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u132	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u133	Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 6.7 by the rapporteurs, and I would like to call for the withdrawal of the other amendments, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u134	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u135	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u138	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u139	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by the rapporteurs, identical to amendments 6.8, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio, and 6.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.11 and 6.10. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u140	I'll withdraw it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u141	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.13
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u142	I'll withdraw it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u143	I take note of that. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.14, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u144	I'll withdraw it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u145	I take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.25, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.19, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.20, tabled by Senator Scilipoti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.23, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.24, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.26, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.27, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.22, tabled by Senator Anitori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.2 tabled by Senator Battista and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.3 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.4 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u146	Mr President, we have tabled amendments 7.5 and 7.6 on the issue of admission certificates for members of the Chamber and Senate. Amendment 7.5 is a follow-up to Amendment 5.0.1 which I mentioned earlier. This is the story related to the Election Councils and, in particular, to the fact that at every legislature there are renewed disputes and controversy, which instead would need a decisive word, at least from a normative, constitutional and ordinary point of view. The proposal that we have put forward on this point is, at first instance, to confirm to each House the verification of the admission certificates of its members and also of the causes of ineligibility, incompatibility and conflict of interest. This is an extremely sensitive issue, which has seen us, wrongly or rightly, on the one hand and on the other, often opposed even in the course of this parliamentary term. We believe that a solution to the continuing conflicts could be the one indicated in amendment 7.5, that is to say to allow, at the end of the checks, an appeal to the Constitutional Court by the person who has a direct and immediate interest. I do not go into the details of the procedure indicated, but I believe that this intention is, from a political and constitutional point of view, worthy at least of a thought and reflection. Amendment 7.6 is much simpler, because it proposes replacing the words "judical" of the titles "judical" with the words "check" the titles "judical." Also this aspect, during the work of the Junta, has caused considerable contrasts, even recently. Considering that neither the House nor the Senate are judges in this case, but represent constitutional bodies with other tasks, it seems more appropriate to use the expression "verification" rather than "judge" of titles, because the verb "judge" could involve all procedures concerning other processes, even from a defensive point of view and of appeals, and which can lead to other parts and complicate procedures instead of simplifying them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u148	What amendment do you intend to put forward? BATTIST (Misto-ILC). I do not want to table an amendment, but I would like to go into it. In particular, I want to speak on the new paragraph of Article 66 of the Constitution because, from what is apparent from a note of the dossier on the further causes for the continuation of the mandate, future presidential senators are excluded. I would like to point out that a communication is planned for all the causes of the future senators. The Regions, then, will meet and decide and the President the Senate will communicate. The question and the reflection I invite you to make is whether the future presidential senators are excluded from any comment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u149	Senator Baptist, we are now in the process of illustrating the amendments. Then we'll go into more detail. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u150	Mr President, I call for a withdrawal or I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 7. I thank Senator Baptist for the insights he is giving us in the course of the illustration; since, however, they do not normally correspond to amendments, it will be in depth that the rapporteurs will subsequently carry out in the depths of their conscience.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u151	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u154	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u155	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 7.11 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 7.19, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 7.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.26, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.27, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.28, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u158	CHITI (PD). Mr President, thank you. I would like to address the Government and the rapporteur, to whom I would like to ask a brief question. We have reached Article 8, which deals with the question of immunity. We are moving forward, the issue of the Constitutional Court with regard to ineligibility and the issue of conflict of interest have already passed. In this article we will address the issue of immunity, which was one of the big issues, after the decision on how to elect the Senate, on which we had to deal. Does anyone tell us what is going on, because we know that there are meetings with the Groups, or will we know after these articles have been voted on? That was the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u159	Of course, the rapporteur will be able to explain this to the House, Senator Chiti, but the amendments we are considering are on the mandate. These are the additional amendments to Article 8 which affect the question that you have correctly referred to, but the amendments to our examination are on another issue, that is, the mandate. I say that because we could possibly distinguish the examination, but let us hear what the rapporteur says about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u162	FINDING, rapporteur. President Chiti raises a question that is absolutely logical, since this is a particularly important subject for the rapporteurs and for the reasons that I will have the pleasure to explain to my colleagues, interlocating with all those who wish to speak and remain with the text they have introduced in the Commission and which has been approved by it: I refer to the restoration of the existing regime against an original forecast of the measure which provided that only the rules of insanity should apply, exclusively for the senators. That is the point of view of the rapporteurs who call for the withdrawal of the amendments, but you also asked for the opinion of the Government, in addition to that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u165	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am referring to Senator Chiti's speech because we have tabled an amendment on this issue as Article 8-a. It obviously interferes with the examination of these amendments and I therefore believe that there should be a clearer response from the Government on this subject, because it is clear that if the current situation is maintained, the amendment will fail. So, if you want to talk, I think you have to put that aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u168	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I too have tabled amendment 8.0.4, which proposes immunity as originally incorporated in the Constitution by the Fathers or the Mothers, as I have heard here: of course it takes courage on the point, it takes ability and arguments to give the new Constitution - as our constituent Fathers had done - the right balance between powers. I realize that it is not popular, but the Constitution adopted in 1948 was not popular either, for which the Constitutionalists had to debate in the face of several problems that emerged, and a fair balance had been found between the three powers of the State, that balance that we no longer want to recognize here. So Mr Buemi has rightly taken this issue, as has Senator Compagna, who has tabled a similar amendment. As Senator Chiti told us, I also invite the rapporteur and the government to reflect better on a teaching that comes from our history and that has allowed seventy years of democracy, with a few brackets of media-judicial coups that we obviously have to remedy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u171	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like a confirmation, and you must excuse me if I disturb you on this: are there no amendments by the rapporteurs to Article 68 of the Constitution? FINDING, rapporteur. Not in the state. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). So I'm not in the state? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, responded to the question: I am a decoder, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). However, Article 68 of the Constitution concerns...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u172	Senator Palma, the proposal was to proceed now to the examination of all the amendments referred to in Article 8, concerning absences, presences and the revocation of the mandate. The additional amendments, on the other hand, which relate to this question of immunity - which would therefore not be addressed now, but at a later stage - could possibly be examined at another time, even in the light of any proposals that are not excluded, since the rapporteur has given an answer on the basis of what is happening in the state of the Union, and in essence also accepting the comment made by President Chiti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u175	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that we are voting on Article 8 and we are not voting on the proposals for Article 8a.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u176	We are in favour of the additional amendments to Article 8: the proposal that has been put forward is to vote on the amendments to Article 8 and Article 8, leaving open the question of the additional amendments, which concern the question of immunity, which can therefore be dealt with in its specific nature later, even in the light of any proposals, if any.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u179	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, we can certainly proceed to vote on Article 8. With regard to the proposals that have been made on the additional amendments to Article 8, it will be an assessment by the House to address the issues in today's debate or not. It is obvious that any initiative - if it were considered that the rapporteurs should take one, on the basis of the debate in this House - must be taken when the other rapporteur is present. However, I would like to stress to my fellow Members how complex the issue we are examining is and to invite them to consider the solution adopted by the rapporteurs as the one which, in the state, guarantees first of all equal dignity to the two Chambers, without prejudice to any profile - which I believe is what Senator Chiti and the others referred to - which concerns the assessment of the insanity or the need for authorization to proceed, which is another aspect of the problem that we have to face, on which, of course, so many amendments have been tabled, on which colleagues will be called to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u182	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, as the House knows, the Government had presented its own text on this part. Following the discussion in the Commission, it was considered to have access to the idea which emerged there, with a view to abolishing the part proposed by the Government. As the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, said, the debate on this point is open, so the Government is equally open to the reflections of the House. As far as the specific issue is concerned, it is quite clear that the opinion that emerged at the time in the Commission is what the Government has taken on board.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u185	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I fully agree with what the rapporteur has said about the absence of a mandate and I would like the Government to take note of her words, correcting in later stages the fact that those who are regional advisers remain so on the basis of a logic common to other systems, such as the German Bundesrat, but not only, in which the senators elected by the Regional Councils, and there by the Länder, are obliged to follow the indication of the majority that elects them, since they are members of the same Council. This is therefore a further reflection which I believe the Government will have to carry out, after the approval of this reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u186	At this point, we are on Article 8 and on the amendments to which they are referred, while we leave the additional amendments to a later stage. We shall then proceed to the presentation of the amendments by the authors.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u187	Mr President, I would like to withdraw the amendments I have tabled to Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u188	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u189	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 8.1, which deletes Article 8. I refer in particular to the new wording of the future Constitution whereby senators will no longer represent the nation and this function of representation will remain only for Members. Now, it goes without saying that, because of the fundamental difference that there has been in the course of all these weeks of discussion, it is clear that there is a very strong divergence on our part on this point with respect to the Government's proposal. We believe it is entirely wrong to build a Senate of the autonomous whose members, even if regional councillors, will no longer be representatives of the nation. This has not been sufficiently discussed in the course of these days; it has been held in the background, but it is not merely a terminological point: it is obviously a point of political substance and it makes us say once again, on the basis of this formulation of the Italian Constitution that will change the functions of the Senate, that the reform we are doing highlights some points of crisis in our opinion quite evident. This simple subject which I am raising today also highlights this aspect of the debate, which obviously remains open. As we have also seen during these hours and these days, this is not simply a concern of some environment, let's say, of the political left of this country, perhaps accustomed to being a little prickly on some aspects, but it is a very serious point of criticism that also comes from authoritative exponents of liberal thought, as you are seeing and as you have the opportunity to read on authoritative newspapers. I believe that these remarks, which were raised - and I insist - also by very authoritative members of liberal thinking, were to be listened to by the Government with a little more attention; perhaps, before handing over the reform of the Senate, as it was done with the proposal of this text, it was necessary to have the cultural strength to open a somewhat more serious debate within the country. Minister, I say this once again in this House: the issue is not the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, on which we all agree. The theme of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, in many political and cultural circles of our country, is acquired, and not since today, but for at least thirty years; the theme is instead, although within the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, how we build a political system that has weights and counterweights and within which also the future Senate, although it is no longer a Chamber that votes for trust, continue to be a Chamber that expresses a significant political function. It is on this fundamental point that we have not agreed in the course of these weeks and it is on this fundamental point - I insist - that the Government should make a little more serious reflection. I repeat: if criticism does not simply come from small sectors of public opinion, but from large and significant sectors of public opinion and political culture in this country and the thought that has helped to build the history of the Constitution over the last fifty-sixty years, perhaps more than trivialize it and consider it simply a pointy criticism of someone who wants to waste time and who opposes change, it would have been wiser to question these fundamental aspects. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, I would like to withdraw all the amendments at my first signature to Rule 8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Mussini, you have 30 seconds to explain your amendments to Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u190	So, look, I don't even talk. Keep it up! [[Comments of Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u191	It's an expression to invite you to be brief. It's extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u192	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). It is not a matter of extra times: one can speak or not. If you tell me I can talk, I'll talk. I have never wasted any time on this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Illustrate quickly. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I would like to stress two aspects of Amendment 8.11: the first is that every Member of Parliament represents the Republic and the second is that he performs his duties without a mandate. I was also directly involved in these days: I have experienced what it means to be here and to feel like representatives of a public res and not of an alicuius res, private or even nullius and feel the duty to be invested with a freedom to represent it. The reflection on this aspect seems to me all the more serious and important because, a few days ago, we saw a vote which, by secret ballot, expressed the need to reflect on what is being represented here. You have to think about whether you represent a res publica, a party or a movement, as in my case, and whether you have to have the freedom to reason on the res publica that you come to represent. I believe that this reflection does not concern a simple amendment, but that it is a reflection that each of us must take place within it carefully for the next few days and for the next voting. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u195	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I wanted to see whether we are now voting on the additional amendments to Article 8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, we are voting on the amendments to Article 8. The additional items will be voted on at a later stage. CASSON (PD). So I wanted to ask whether we can reserve the illustration at the time of their actual examination and subsequent vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u196	That makes sense to me. Therefore, Senators Russo, Maran and Lanzillotta will also be able to explain their additional amendments later. The remaining amendments to Article 8 are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u197	I call on the authors to withdraw the amendments or the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u198	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u199	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1, which is identical to Amendments 8.2 and 8.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u202	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u203	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendments 8.2, tabled by Senator Bencini and Romani Maurizio, and 8.3, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, up to the words "Articles 67". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 8.5 and amendments 8.7 and 8.8 are therefore excluded. Amendments 8.6 and 8.9 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.12, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u206	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I wanted to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 8.13 and on all the amendments relating to the lifting of the mandate, the so-called retell, a proposal that must not remain undisputed. Many Members want to introduce the possibility that during the term of office of a senator or a Member there will be a collection of signatures from a number of voters to put in referendum the mandate of this individual Member. I will vote against these amendments because, in my opinion, they are very risky precisely for minorities, because from the numbers that Members have predicted (in some cases 12% of college voters, in other cases 20% and in others 1% of the national electoral corps), in the various cases... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then, if anything, online who knows what happens. Orellana (Misto-ILC). I don't think they wrote that. But it seems to me that there are ways that are likely to affect minorities; it could be a member of the opposition more easily hit by the majority because the collection of signatures is facilitated. That is why I shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u207	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.13, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.15 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.16 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,17 and 8,18 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.19, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.20 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.21 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.22, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,23, 8,60, 8,24 and 8,25 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.26 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 827 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.28, 8.29, 8.30, 8.31 and 8.32 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.33, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.34 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.35, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.36 tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.37 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.38, 8.39, 8.40 and 8.41 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.42 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.43, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.44 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.45, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the words "from day to day." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 8.45 and Amendment 8.46 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.47, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.48, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.49, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.50 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.51, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, until the words 'of mandate'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 8.51 and amendments 8.52 to 8.56 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u210	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you have now stated that the amendments following amendment 8.51 are not included. However, I would like to make a remark, which is evident to the world, that it should remain in the proceedings. You voted on Amendment 8.51 to the terms of the mandate, but it is clear to everyone that the spirit of the amendment tabled by Senator Minzolini is profoundly different from that of the subsequent amendments. That's what I'm saying to keep to the record. They are pure artifices, because it is clear that the amendment tabled by Senator Minzolini introduces the recall, although in the first part and in the first paragraph. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But there's also the first part. So you understand, Senator De Petris, that foreclosure comes from the first part, which is identical. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But one thing is to reiterate that first part with the next retell; one thing is to restore exactly Article 67 of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, you made your point, which is now on the record. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Since there are three of my amendments which would all be foreclosed together, I would ask you to vote on the following three in a single vote, because they are not the same, but they are different from 8.51.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u211	The Presidency's remark is perfectly relevant, because the first words we voted on Amendment 8.51 are as follows: Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation and shall perform his duties without a mandate. Of the foreclosed amendments, I quote 8,52 (one of its own), which reads: Each member of Parliament represents the nation and carries out his duties without a mandate. It is clear - and my fellow Members are looking at the file on the amendments - that the Presidency's assessment is absolutely correct. After that, I do not want to create a polemic for an extra or less vote, but - frankly - it is not logical to do so. Therefore, I would like to maintain the Presidency's position, knowing that it would take us less time to vote on the amendments. If you read the text, it is logical: we cannot do things to exchange courtesies. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my vote is distorted if you do not now put the second part of Senator Minzolini's amendment to the vote, because it is the report. It is clear that the amendment itself, between the first and second paragraphs, is completely different from my own, from a political point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, we first voted on the retell, so that some of our colleagues, including Senator Orellana, have spoken to make a statement. You missed it. We have voted both on the principle of retell, rejecting it, and on the principle of mandate. So, don't worry. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.57, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.58, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.59, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 8.61, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,62 tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.63 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.64, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, until the words "electoral collegues" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 8,64 and Amendment 8,65 are therefore excluded. Amendments 8.66 and 8.67 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendments 8.69, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, and 8.72, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.73, 8.70, 8.71 and 8.74 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.75, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.76 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.77, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.78, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.79 to 8.83 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 8.84, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the words "more than". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 8,84 and Amendment 8,85 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.86, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the word "represent." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 8.86 and amendments 8,87 to 8,91 are therefore excluded. Amendments 8.92 and 8.93 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.94, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, up to the words "from day to day." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 8,94 and Amendment 8,95 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.96 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u214	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a very small point about the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, if possible, if Senator Barani can keep his hands firm; he can set an example for everyone. Vote with balls: I watch these scenes and it's indecent. Senator Barani has to extract the ball he inserted into the inside of the hole. Senator Barani did it, the Undersecretaries did it, and so many other senators did it, both on the right side and on the left side. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u215	Senator Barani is standing here under everyone's eyes. Now the senator secretary will check if there are too many balls. Amendment 8.97 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.98 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.99, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 8,100, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,101 and 8,102 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.103, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 8,105, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "at least" at the moment. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 8,105 and amendments 8,106 to 8,11 are therefore excluded. Amendments 8,112 to 8,119 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As agreed, amendments to add additional articles after Article 8 are provided for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u218	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, without prejudice to the provision of amendments aimed at adding additional articles and taking up Mr Chiti's call, I think that perhaps a minimum of debate on the point of view of any of us who wish to intervene on the possible immunity is necessary and necessary, otherwise we risk that tomorrow, at the recovery, the rapporteurs will express their opinion directly on the amendments that have been tabled. Where, on the other hand, we should feel that the views of the Government and the rapporteurs can also be determined on the basis of the debate that we are going to have, I would ask you, for a matter of method, whether it would be possible - if you would, even after the vote on Article 9, since we had to stop - to take advantage of this period to discuss the amendments aimed at including an additional article after Article 8. In this way, everyone could offer the Government and the rapporteurs their point of view so that they can be in a position to give the Assembly either a new wording or an opinion on the additional amendments that have been tabled, after the matter has been thoroughly assessed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u219	Senator Bruno, having postponed the vote on the amendments intended to insert additional articles, having also Senator Casson, in the context of the illustration, made this subject clear and having said myself that the explanation of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles would have taken place later, for me it is obvious that (and its clarification is useful for this purpose) the discussion on that point must take place in the vote, with the possibility of the Groups to intervene (your Group, among other things, has a suitable time). It seems to me, therefore, that your comment is correct. Not only is the vote postponed, with the expression of opinions, but there will also - I imagine - be a debate. I would now like to turn to Rule 9; then the Groups can also discuss with the Presidency how to use the next time. In fact, from a timetable, the sitting is scheduled until such a late hour that even more can be done than you wanted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u222	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I rise to support Senator Bruno's request, which I think is absolutely plausible. It is not a question of making particular mysteries: there is a question on the table, which has been resolved in a certain way in the Commission; on the point there are different opinions and it is expected that the Government will give its support to what the rapporteurs have done or will return to the House or do what it legitimately intends to do. I do not see the need to postpone the matter: it is laid down in law here. Let us now leave this small parenthesis aside, but I believe that, in the very short term, it must be discussed and then dissolved, otherwise we begin to postpone all the nodes. Today we are in a position to loosen this knot: let us loosen it and let each one assume his own responsibilities. Moreover, there are many parliamentary passages planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u223	In fact, Mr Casini, the alternative is to vote on Article 9, to which no many amendments have been tabled, and to open after this debate. Since the rapporteur, even in the absence of the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, had given us no objection, we could then proceed to the examination of Article 9 and then open the debate on the amendments aimed at including articles in Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u226	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I find myself with Senator Bruno's proposal. If you want to vote first on all the amendments tabled in Article 9. I think it would be right to have a minimum of discussion on these issues, to make a minimum of point out, including the explanation of the amendments, to hear the Government's assessment because this is a relevant issue - in my opinion the biggest issue after that of the electoral model, which has been dissolved - and to have an overall approach to understanding whether the Government and the rapporteurs consider the issue to be closed, as contained in the draft that came out of the Commission: in this case the amendments could be voted on; if, on the other hand, there is a mandate to reformulate them, the amendment will be evaluated and voted on...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u227	I propose to vote on the amendments tabled to Article 9, which are about twenty (unless someone is withdrawn); then - having no other articles ready to vote (as is said in the jargon), in the expectation of Senator Calderoli, we could move on to the debate that many people want and that seems absolutely necessary to me. I therefore propose that we explain the amendments to Article 9, that we listen to the relevant opinions and proceed to the vote on these amendments and then move on to the debate on the amendments to add additional articles to Article 8. At another stage, if this issue is resolved also in the light of a debate that could lead to real solutions and not to stop being a formal debate, we will move on to another, so much so that the closing time of the sitting allows us to do much more. If there are no comments, this remains the case. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u228	Mr President, our amendments are very simple. In fact, we were allowed to take up one of the issues that the President of the Council has put to the attention several times by saying that the compensation of Members of Parliament should be equal to that of mayors with a population of more than 500,000. To our great regret we have seen that this amendment in the Commission has also received the opposite opinion from both the rapporteurs and the Government. We now offer it back to the debate, but since when the President-in-Office of the Council speaks we think that there is some consequence, then we want to see if at least on this point the consequence is there.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u231	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). I withdraw Amendment 9.9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u232	Mr President, Amendment 9.25 provides that the allowance is only for the current function and that therefore any reference to various types of vitality is excluded, except for provisions which can be made, however, by taking them out of the allowances. The other question is the one that requires a legal definition of all elements of conflict of interest that might arise when the parliamentarians take office.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u233	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u234	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u235	I give my assent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u236	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u239	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u240	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u243	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I just want to point out that I was unable to vote on Amendment 9.4. Of course, I would have liked to have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u244	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.8, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.9 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.10 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 9.11, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.12, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, up to the words "self-employed province." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 9.12 and Amendments 9.13, 9.14 and 9.15 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.16 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 917 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 918 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.19, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u247	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I preannounce the vote in favour of Amendment 9.20, at the first signature of Senator Crimi. This amendment raises the question of allowances for Members of the Chamber of Deputies who are deprived of their personal freedom or who are held in detention because they are so ordered by the judicial authority. It proposes the suspension - and therefore not the total elimination - of their emoluments, pending a final judgment. I am thinking of the image that is taken out, of the public, of the Italian citizens, if a person detained, perhaps because the Chamber of Deputies authorised his detention, is still receiving the allowance. This is a problem that needs to be resolved. Amendment 9.20 rightly proposes to suspend the allowances pending a final judgment, when, if necessary, all the compensation that has not been received will be refunded, perhaps even with legal interests. I believe, however, that as long as the person is in prison he should not receive this allowance. Otherwise there would be an incredible difference between those who carry out a free profession, and being in prison obviously no longer succeeds in following his professional activities, and those who, sitting in Parliament, are put in detention by the judicial authority, among other things with the approval of the House of Membership (in this case, the Chamber of Deputies). I believe that this issue must be addressed by voting in favour of Amendment 9.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u248	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.20 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.22, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 9.23, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.24, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Buemi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 9.25. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.26 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u251	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to remain with the acts which I voted against all the amendments, but some of them, such as Amendment 9.15, had roughly the same predictions as the text approved by the Commission, namely that the regional senators are entitled to the Regional Councillor's allowance. I would not like us to reject these amendments and say that the regional senators are not even entitled to the allowance. I believe that this is contrary to our will.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u252	Well, senator, you could say it would reduce interest in participation. Clearly, however, it will be the text that will make faith. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, at this point we can turn to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 8 of the draft law. We will not vote on other articles today, because we are waiting for the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli. I also say this to my fellow Members: we will not vote for any further articles and amendments tabled to them on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u255	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I may not have been able to explain my request. Let us take advantage of this moment to discuss immunity. We had a government text voted in the Commission and then there was the deletion amendment, which my political side, for example, holds true. However, I believe it is necessary and necessary to have a debate on this point. Then if the rapporteur and the government are ready, because they have made the choice, we must and can vote on the amendment to add an article to Article 8. That is my request. CASINI (PI). That is the logic: it is not a request!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u256	Senator Bruno, I was referring to the fact that we will not proceed to the vote on the articles following Article 9: I meant that we will not go beyond Article 9, because we are also waiting for the other rapporteur. With regard to the amendments to add an article to Article 8, we have put the matter down to hold a debate on this subject which can also be concluded with the votes and decisions of this House. Then, if the rapporteur will table amendments and there will be sub-amendments, this does not concern the Presidency at this stage, because the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, has said 'to the state' and since I give weight to the rapporteur's words, I do not think she has used them at random. (The rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, asked to speak.) I see that the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, is asking to speak. I would therefore ask you to open the debate on the amendments aimed at adding an article to Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u259	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, I shall now open the debate. As I said earlier, the rapporteurs obviously believe that the Commission's text is the one to be voted on by this House, not on the basis of a sort of supposition, but on the basis of the content of the debate in the Commission and also of the public debate on Article 68 of the Constitution. As I said earlier, we were starting from a text in the draft law which kept the senators exclusively indisputable for the votes given and the opinions expressed in the exercise of the mandate, while retaining the indisputability (the one I have just mentioned) and also the authorization to proceed with arrest, search, seizure and interception of the telephone. The first order of assessment concerned the need or not to have the same regime for Members and senators. Moreover, the fact that we are so strongly innovating the system of perfect bicameralism does not remove, as we have also recently seen, the prestige of the Senate and, above all, the fact that it is considered to be a full House of Parliament. What does this mean in a parliamentary republic, it is useless for me to present it here. The second point concerns the fact that, despite some confusion that has been made in the public debate, it is certainly not the immunity that existed before 1993 that, as is still the case today for the judges of the Constitutional Court and diplomats, before 1993 Members and senators were taken away, without permission to proceed, from the same possibility of going on trial. As we know, after the constitutional reform of 1993, Members and senators are also subject to criminal jurisdiction, as it is right that it is and like any other citizen, and permission to proceed is required only with regard to arrest, search, interception of telephone and seizure: therefore, the restrictive measures of freedoms strictly understood. In the light of this debate, it is obvious that there have been very strong echoes in the public debate by colleagues or political forces or individuals who believe that this form of authorisation to proceed should also fall, both as regards Members and as regards senators. It is obvious that there have also been echoes in the debate of those who believe (and you will find some amendments in this regard) that the authorization to proceed as it was before 1993 should be re-introduced and that it is therefore necessary to re-think that there is a privilege regime for Members and senators compared with other citizens. Now, it is clear that we are discussing a particularly sensitive subject. As someone mentioned earlier, we are thinking about that complex and delicate system that regulates relations and balance between powers. The rapporteurs have therefore moved among these many proposals, some of which are still present and concern the possibility of even entrusting this judgment to the Constitutional Court: this is a hypothesis that has been in the field of public debate. We are moving on a particularly delicate terrain. It would also invest in regulatory reform, in my opinion, because, for example, it should begin to be expected that the election committees and the authorization to proceed, guarantee bodies, will be made up equally and not on the basis of the principle of majority voting. But, indeed, it is a particularly delicate and complex issue that has found very different hints. The operation, carried out by the rapporteurs, of returning to the current regime, on the one hand, does not confine itself to a re-introduction of the authorization to proceed before the 1993 reform and, on the other hand, restores equality between Members and senators. We believe that it can also respond to a whole series of further suggestions that have come from colleagues from the point of view of the method that we have tried to follow and to which I mentioned in the introductory report: that of the transaction, being this - so to speak - the essence of the law and much more of the constitutional law. Nothing, of course, prevents Parliament from returning to this issue in the form of Article 138 and the aggravated forms of regulatory reform in the course of regulatory reform or at a later stage of rethinking. It seems to me (and in this sense I defend the Commission's solution) that the solution we have adopted is, in the state, the one that best guarantees a balance and therefore, where none of the extreme solutions win, with a reasonable and balanced composition, safeguarding a principle to which the rapporteurs hold very much, yes, equal treatment of Members and senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u262	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had tabled amendments on the passive electorate of the senators and I had dealt with them precisely with the problems arising from Rule 68. Well, Article 57 has been voted and we know how the new Senate of the Republic will be formed. I personally believe that any solution we can give to this problem will not be good, in the sense that every solution has pros and cons, and for many reasons. With regard to the first reason, should we consider the protection plan of a senator other than a Member's protection plan? It is possible because the senator's protagonist commitment to the legislative process is less than that of the Member, but it also exists. It exists for the constitutional revision, for Articles 29 and 32, as they have been incorporated as a result of an amendment. It exists for regional issues, for treaties and, not least, for the participation of senators in the election of the President of the Republic. Therefore, to imagine a different system leaves some perplexity precisely because of the participation protagonist. On the other hand, giving the senators immunity under Rule 68 identical to that of the Members of Parliament also leaves bitter in the mouth. We all know, in fact, that they become senators because of their primary role, that of regional councillors and mayors: basically, on one side, of pure administration management that of mayors; on the other hand, of participation in an institution that has become a management body. And the experience of recent times - alas - which I hope will never be repeated, sees the judicial pages of the newspapers precisely focused on the events of regional councillors and mayors. With which I mean that, in the event of immunity being granted to senators, but at the same time as regional advisers and mayors, I am convinced that at the first such event, public opinion will loudly demand that immunity be changed. Nor can I imagine - I have to say the truth - an immunity to intermittent, in the sense that it applies to the acts that they may carry out as senators, but not to all others; apart from the fact that in this case we would give the judicial authority the opportunity to discern at will if it is an act performed in the duties of senator or in the functions of regional adviser. The other problem is that for Members immunity concerns not only what they do within their duties, but their life as a whole. With which I mean that, at least from my point of view, the evaluation we have to give is between the pros and cons, in the knowledge that any solution we go to adopt will not be the best possible. It'll probably be the least of the worst. As a result, it seems to me that the path to be taken has only one alternative: it is only the senators' recognition of the indisputability referred to in the first paragraph. However, we can do this by having a clear concept: I do not care about the search, the arrest and the seizure; instead, I worry about the telephone interceptions. Imagine all of you, in a system that provides for the freedom of telephone interceptions, with the consequent leak of news, how problematic this can be for the country in some ways. The second alternative is obvious: the recognition of full immunity to senators as well. The only way that I personally do not seem to be able to go is, in the face of the problem, to remove immunity, as well as to the senators, even to Members. Finally, since President Finocchiaro referred to you, I personally do not believe that the assessment, in case immunity should remain and therefore authorisation, can be handed over to a constitutional body other than that in which there is the subject, the subject of the request: to those who imagine to convey everything to the Constitutional Court, beyond the distortion of the functions of the Court, I reply however that this, if you want, can also be done, but putting in the cauldron also many other safeguards or guarantees that do not only concern parliamentarians but also other categories of servants of the State. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u265	CASINI (PI). Mr President, it seems to me that this issue has a complexity that stems from the relationship between Parliament and public opinion at a particularly delicate historical stage. This is the theme. For the rest, I would like to say that we are faced with a non-theme. In fact, either we see immunity as seeing it as parts of public opinion, that is, as a privilege that a caste holds for itself, or we see it as seen by the Constituents, who have written a good Constitution and who have considered it - as in all the world and also in the European Parliament, with legislation agreed between different political groups - not as a privilege but as a guarantee, perhaps today a desuited but very timely word, which goes hand in hand with what our rapporteur called balance. I, as a long-standing Member of Parliament, see immunity not as a privilege but as a guarantee of balance between different powers of the State. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, if I am brutal, but I think it is unusual, ridiculous, I could say that the allocation of decision-making power, which is being evoked, is not known on the basis of which principle, to another power of the State, the Constitutional Court. We can venture on any ground, but why didn't the Constituent think even remotely of the issue - it is not even present in the Acts of the Constituent - of the expropriation of this right-to decide by the parliamentary body, assigning it to the Constitutional Court? It is not a coincidence: this is because this is illogical; among other things it means burdening the Constitutional Court with an attribution which to no extent other countries consider to be the responsibility of their respective Constitutional Courts. Secondly, immunity. Senator Finocchiaro - who is very good and does not need my praises - explained that we are not discussing immunity before 1993. For those who did not notice the reform has already been and is one of the most restrictive reforms. I believe that a Parliament like ours should approve parliamentary immunity on the basis of the decision taken jointly by the right-wing, left-wing and centre groups of the European Parliament. We have an immunity that has already been reformed. Constitutional reform has already been there. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have, yes, a transformation of the Senate organ, but we have a reality that is not extinct with the reform, which is called Parliament, the electoral college of the President of the Republic. Therefore, Parliament as such cannot assign a series A discipline to one House and one series B discipline to another. Allow me to say another thing: it is true that the issue raised by Senator Palma has its own significance - and this is the weak point - but it does not concern Parliament and the Senate but rather an alleged, but in fact existing unequal treatment between the regional, parliamentary and senator councilor, the parliamentary and senator mayor, and the local administrators who do not enjoy the same prerogatives. It is clear that this disparity derives from a different function, from a different attribution that this regional councillor assumes in the act in which he comes to be part of the 100 Senate of the Republic. Finally, I would like to say very sincerely that we must bear in mind what is and what is happening in fact. When Senator Palma included the category "relationship with public opinion," I would like to remind you that this report has already made us change the specific situation. In fact, while we have a very long phase in the life of our Republic in which, for example, arrest permits were never given, you know very well that this practice has changed in the field. The legislator, in fact, aware of the impact of an increasingly intolerable case for public opinion, today has almost always given reason to those who ask for the arrest warrant for the parliamentarians, granting it to him; As it has been on the agenda in this parliamentary term. However, I would also like to call all my colleagues to a whisper of dignity about what we are; in fact, we cannot accept the representation of convenience that is being done, so the category of politicians and parliamentarians is basically considered to be a category of fraudsters on the loose, protected in their daily committing crimes from belonging to a House. But, dear God, I have been in Parliament for so many years and I think I am a decent person, as I believe that the vast majority of people who devote their commitment to political work and are legislators are good people. We cannot accept the simplification of complacency on the basis of a hypothetical pursuit of public opinion. Colleagues, that kind of public opinion we'll never reach. We can go after her, we can go to 300 an hour, but we'll never get to her. Instead we will add demagogy to demagogy, that same demagogy that rejected the Constituents who, aware of the historical experience - and history comes before the chronicle and also the simplifications of the same - have intended to create a system of balance between different powers. That is why I believe that the rapporteurs have done a good job and I shall vote according to their instructions. [[Applause from the groups PI and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u268	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, I believe that Senator Palma's starting point is acceptable; there is no solution to this problem that can give full satisfaction. But I also believe that, when assessing this aspect, we must also consider the method by which we are pursuing the reform. We have finally understood - I hope - that the Constitution is like the mechanism of a clock: touching one side, immediately creates a reverb and a reflection on another wheel of the gear. This is the basic reason why we thought that we should discuss together the form of government, bicameralism, Title V, electoral law. We have not been able to do this, and then we need more vision skills and more precaution to prevent the balance of the system from finally failing. That is exactly what we are talking about now: how the system of weights and counterweights originally provided for in our Constitution is changing. Our Constituents, precisely because the country was out of a long authoritarian season, attributed a great autonomy to the judiciary, and to it they matched article 68. That article was originally intended to safeguard politics and, above all, popular sovereignty over possible trespasses, so that many of the problems of the last twenty years stem precisely from the modification made in 1993, which probably corresponded to a logic of public opinion, but not to a logic of constitutional balance. I believe that today, even on the basis of that experience, we must not repeat the error. We are not just talking about personal prerogatives. This is a theme that comes after. The main issue is the necessary balance between the legislative power and the judiciary, and also the necessary separation of powers which we know cannot be total, but which must absolutely ensure an area of autonomy. If this is the case, in terms of the balance and autonomy of powers, then the issue of immunity must necessarily be declined in relation to the functions assigned to the new senators. This was the compass that we have followed for every aspect of the reform. If, among other things, the new senators are given the task of voting on the President of the Republic and even the function of being able to influence the process of constitutional revision, it is necessary and essential that it be granted the same immunity as the Members. And it is necessary and essential that immunity not only covers the size of the union. Imagine what would happen to the principle of separation of powers if a court order, on the eve of an election for the President of the Republic or on the eve of a constitutional revision, were to affect the plenum? These are theoretical arguments, but those who know the history and history of doctrines know that these things have happened in the past. I remember a very beautiful page by Alexander Herzen in "The past and thoughts," in which, compared to 1848, was told exactly this. Some of us may also be pleased that from the monarchy of July we have passed to the second empire, but certainly we cannot share the way in which this happened: precisely by modifying the college that could then have operated that constitutional change. It is therefore clear that immunity is required in order to guarantee an area of autonomy to the judiciary, to the legislative power, and also a balance between them. It is also clear that, in the light of the change in the Senate, we could do better. One could, for example, imagine a reform that redesigns the Junta and creates a single Junta between the House and the Senate. However, I believe that we must adhere to a precautionary principle here: at a time when we are not sure that the imbalances we are going to determine are not greater than those we are correcting, it is good to abstain. It is good to postpone this reflection to another forum, in which the texts can be deepened. We will follow this criterion with regard to immunity, with respect to the relationship between parliamentary democracy and direct democracy, with respect to a number of issues that we will deal with in the coming days. And we will do so because we believe that gaining vision and precaution at a time when we are working on one aspect of the Constitution and not on everything, is already a very difficult exercise. Let's try not to make it a rude exercise. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u269	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u270	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u271	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, today I finally hear a very careful reflection in this House on issues relating to the system of separation and balance of powers. I say this not to make an easy irony, but because it is one of the issues behind our opposition to the constitutional reform approach, repeatedly inviting individual senators to an additional reflection. I am a little surprised, therefore, that today there is such a great deal of attention to avoid hasty interventions, that they can disbalance the system of weights and counterweights or what concerns the separation between the various powers, so in the specific case between the legislative and the judiciary, now that the issue of immunity is being discussed. I do not want to seem always and at all costs polemical, but it is clear to everyone that at the moment when you, with the vote on Articles 1 and 2, totally modified the Senate by transforming it into an unelective chamber, you really had to have a great deal of attention to how you intervened on constitutional architecture: it was in fact clear, as it is for us, that such a change would create imbalances. We will see, when we discuss the election of the President of the Republic, how that question will return, because it is one of the elements that certainly does not work in this facility, as well as on the election of judges of the Constitutional Court and lay members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Having chosen the majority of this Senate to reach a non-elective Senate, it is useless to deny that the tout court application of the guarentigie system, Article 68, causes a number of problems, some already exposed by Senator Palma, to which I will add others. Differently from the House for the new Senate there is no precise, clear and popular legitimacy through direct suffrage: in the non-elective Senate it is the college of regional councillors who decide who will be senator between regional councillors and mayors. There is no kind of correspondence between the popular will and the choice of who will then be part of the Senate of the Republic. This is not trivial and it is clear that it does, however, make a great difference between the non-elective Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the fact that, as is evident to all, it would be very difficult to articulate Article 68. The first paragraph does not present any problems, because this is what we propose: Members of Parliament may not be called upon to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties as elected senators. But everything else is not so easy to interpret: when do regional councillors or mayors not have immunity, and when are they here enjoy it? You understand very well that this, in my opinion, is another of the highly critical elements, which are absolutely evident precisely in the debate on immunity. However, we are proposing an approach which concerns both the House and the Senate, i.e. all Members of Parliament. We believe that public opinion should be addressed today. I also respond to Senator Casini: we have warned you, in all these days, to continue to feed the demagogy, to continue to come more and more to meet the impulses. It is not that we can have a rethink only in the case of immunity, because the same affair of the non-elective Senate and the approach of this reform is a pure and simple concession not to the efficiency of the system, but to another purely demagogic operation. I think, however, that today there are such conditions that we have a duty to strengthen the first part, that is, the first paragraph, of Article 68, that which truly and most intensively protects the Member in the free expression of his opinions, in the votes he gives in the exercise of his duties, in the activity of inspection union, which does not happen very regularly. I sincerely believe that the time has come today: if this appears to the citizens in fact as a privilege, I think that today really has arrived the time and the sign of maturity for which the parliamentarians arrive to repeal the other two paragraphs. President Finocchiaro has well explained how the system of healings has already changed heavily in 1993. Today I believe that this very part that remains is not at all a system of protection; it is neither against the Member nor even against the Member of Parliament vis-à-vis the judiciary. In fact, sometimes it seems like a continuous and permanent challenge to me. On the other hand, I believe that today the time has really come and ripe for us to overcome this system and to focus instead on strengthening the protection of the freedom of the parliamentarians, of the opinions expressed and of the votes he gives during the exercise of his duties, for example the inspection union. I believe that this, yes, would give a sign, not only of maturity, but also of being able to understand the demands of citizens not in a demagogic spirit, but realizing that these times are now ripe. It almost always happens now, even by secret ballot luckily, that authorization is given to arrest, the use of interceptions, searches. All the more reason that the sign of maturity, especially in recent times, has also been given by Members of Parliament, I really think it is time to make this amendment in the Constitution too. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u274	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I agree with my fellow Members that this is certainly a sensitive issue: there are also risks of populism, to which we must not give in and to which we must not caress; but we must never caress, not every other day, otherwise there would be no coherence. I do not agree with many things that Senator Casini has said today: it is not a matter of knowing that public opinion is never reached; it is a question of understanding what the right demands are to be met in order to rebuild relationships of trust. Of course there is one problem that concerns us: how immunity has been organised and practiced in practice. It wasn't okay when you always said no and it's not okay even now, because of weakness you always say yes. So there will have to be some problem if we want to rebuild a relationship of trust. And one who believes that he does not share some aspects in this reform: one can give a message that gives a serious blow to this reform, because if you give the message - which is emerging here - that you can touch everything about the Constitution and the organization of the institutions representative of the Republic, but you can not touch immunity, that otherwise you crumble everything, it will not benefit, but it will be, indeed, a dangerous message. Society has changed and there is certainly less risk today in carrying out the work and the role of a Member of Parliament than there used to be. At the same time - and this too must be borne in mind - the other parliaments, including the European Parliament, have conditions guaranteeing those elected to situations of immunity. In my opinion, the problem is that we have decided to reform Parliament by ensuring that some - the Members - will (then see the electoral law) be directly elected by the citizens, while in the Senate there will be, as senators, mayors and regional councillors who, as has been said, will have to do precisely the mayors and regional councillors; so much so that - and it is a sign - the compensation for their elective function will be given to them as mayors and regional advisers. This is the question, which not only differentiates 21 mayors from the others and 74 regional councillors from the others, but will give these 21 mayors, even when they are mayor, and these 74 regional councillors, even when they are directors, immunity as if they were parliamentarians. It's the question that Senator Palma posed and it's the question, it's difficult, of course, but it's the question. I had tabled an amendment with others which states that immunity should be decided by the Chambers of its own, but that the judiciary may, as a last resort, appeal to the Constitutional Court. I have heard from Senator Casini that the possibility of appealing to the Constitutional Court as the final decision-making body, after the ruling of the Chamber, would be like abdicating to the role of the Chambers. I do not remember exactly whether Mr Casini himself, but still many, when a debate took place that I do not want to reopen on the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, had theorized that it was the Constitutional Court that had to be appealed to in the last instance. It is not that yesterday, if it had been possible, the Constitutional Court would have been called upon without losing its autonomy and predicting today that if a Chamber says no, the judiciary can appeal to the Court at the last decision-making stage, which is to degrade the function of the House. It's not like that! If you don't at least do this, you'll be short-circuited with public opinion. I say that I have many doubts about this reform: there will be a confirmation referendum and this will not only be an electoral model, but much more. I say this today because tomorrow you don't say you didn't know. Of course, you can also choose the way to let the House do everything. We leave the suspended issues to the senators. And the House will come back to it, hoping that it will do so that we can speak on those matters. Is that our role? Do we just hope that the House will change something, since we at second reading could not? I would, frankly, think about that. I think that in front of us there are two roads, I don't see any more and it's hard to choose one or the other. That's what I'm talking There is a way of leaving immunity for Members elected by citizens: only paragraph 1 of Rule 68, i.e. the indisputability of exercising the parliamentary function for new senators, or unifying on this level both Members and Senators. I think it is right for those who are directly elected by the citizens to leave a form of immunity and to provide for recourse, in the case of a different decision, to the Constitutional Court. I sincerely believe that this proposal was contained in one of the two amendments. But I don't think it can be said that senators, regional councillors and mayors can have the same kind of immunity. Of course, we object - quite rightly in part - that this is how Members and senators differ. Yes, it is true that Members would differ from Senators. But what has been done so far? What did we discuss? Aren't we distinguishing the House from the Senate for roles? And are we not distinguishing elected Members from the elected citizens and mayors and regional councillors in the second instance? And are we not introducing these differences written in the Constitution? And, then, tomorrow we will tell the citizens: we have differentiated MPs and senators, House and Senate, beyond the overcoming of equal bicameralism, apart from immunity. But do we really believe that this is the way to defeat populism, which is a risk? Is this the basic trench on which to rebuild a relationship of trust? I honestly don't believe that, and I invite everyone to think. In any case, I have this conviction and I will act accordingly in the vote. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u277	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, some of the issues have already been dealt with by my fellow Members, particularly Senators Quagliariello and Chiti, even though they are from different sides. However, I believe that it is necessary today to take a non-instrumental approach to public opinion. Therefore, Parliament must tell the truth and take responsibility for what it does: we cannot hide behind solutions that do not tell the truth. The truth is that the defence of the parliamentary prerogative for the Senate has failed at the moment in which it has passed from the eligibility direct to the eligibility of second degree, because it is not possible to guarantee the same type of treatment, in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution, to deputies who only perform the legislative function and to senators who, in addition to the legislative function, perform the administrative function of mayors and regional legislators and who do not have the cover in the Constitution pursuant to the same Article 68. We must recognize - and this is what I provocatively say to those who often suffer from moralism - that there would be no "reimbursement" investigations if there were an equal regime between senators and Members. The question, therefore, is not solved by pretending that the problem is not there. In Amendment 8.0.2, at my first signature, we have taken up a resolution from the European Parliament in 2004, tabled by Socialist Parliamentarian Willi Rothley, who was taken on an agenda by this House on 18 February 2004, following an amendment tabled by Senator Crema. In essence, this agenda asked that, while maintaining the prerogatives under Article 68 of the Constitution, the House's action should not be anticipating, but following the investigation initiated by the judiciary against the parliamentarians. In the face of an assessment of a persecutory attitude on the part of the parliamentarians, the latter requires a ruling from the House of Membership; the latter assumes the responsibility to determine whether that activity of the judiciary is legitimate or whether it is persecutory. This is the only way that today allows us to get out of a bunch of misunderstandings that over the years has demolished the public image of parliamentarians, both in the House and in the Senate. We must have the courage to assume responsibility and, when the action of the Member of Parliament is called into question by the action of the judiciary, the House of Membership must have the courage to confront the judiciary and public opinion. Otherwise we will never do truth operations on this subject; we will defend our friend from time to time and leave our political enemy to the lions. This is certainly not the right way to use Article 68 of the Constitution and, in this sense, we have proposed a change. If this attitude had already been adopted since 1993, we would probably not be here today to discuss, not only the splendour, but also the evils of certain judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u279	There are many senators asking for the floor. The Presidency is not carrying out a fiscal check on the timing, but I call on all Members to take into account the time available to the Groups, including those for dissenting speeches. Given the delicacy of the subject, therefore, I appeal to the evaluation of the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u280	Please, Senator Ichino, you have the right to speak. ICHINO (SPI). I will try to be very brief, partly because a great deal has already been said about this issue; moreover, many of the comments made in this House today are difficult to dispute, indeed they are fully acceptable. In particular, I find it difficult to dispute the need for parliamentary immunity as a guarantee of balance between the powers of the State, as I find it equally difficult to dispute the need for this guarantee to be available to both branches of Parliament. The Senate plays a different role than that of the House in the new constitutional system, but not inferior to that of the House. The problem of immunity arises for three reasons. First of all, for about four decades this guarantee has been misused, distorted. Mr Casini pointed out that for four decades this guarantee was used to turn immunity into impunity; and here the second problem arises: that of a public opinion suffering from this guarantee. However, I would like to draw Senator Casini's attention to the fact that the problem cannot be considered solved just because after four decades of excess in one direction it has gone to an excess of the opposite sign. If from the moment of the reversal of the trend there has been a situation in which, for fear of public opinion, the Chambers grant authorization in all cases indifferently, obviously there is something here that does not work. That is why, without prejudice to the fundamental need on which it seems to me there is a broad, albeit not unanimous, consensus, I think it is right to reflect on how to structure this guarantee differently. It therefore seems useful to me to discuss whether the best form of this guarantee is self-declaration, i.e. whether it is appropriate for the government of this guarantee to be entrusted directly to the body which holds it. In this regard, Senator Chiti proposed a solution, that is to say, that the Constitutional Court should be held accountable against Parliament's decision. Why instead (as a problem, why no one here has certainties) do not suppose instead that the guarantee itself is governed directly by the organ that is institutionally, by its nature, the referee among the powers of the State? In this regard, Senator Palma spoke of the "saturation of the functions of the Constitutional Court." I frankly do not see this distortion, since the Court is, by its very nature and by its essence, arbiter between the powers of the State. Senator Casini says it is "illogical" to entrust this guarantee, to which Parliament is entitled, to another body. But there is nothing illogical, since the guarantee is about the relationship between two powers, the judiciary and the legislature, to entrust the government of the guarantee itself to those who are by their nature referees between those powers. All the more so when, in other parts of the constitutional reform, we entrust to the Constitutional Court itself the task of prior control of the constitutional legitimacy of the electoral law. The Constituents did not do so in 1946-47, because everything that happened in the next half century had not happened yet; we are reforming the Constitution today, even by taking care of what has happened in the meantime. Having said that, we basically agree with the approach adopted by the rapporteurs on this point and before that by the Government, which has the initiative on this ground, and here I respond very briefly to the many who, during last week, have vehemently and even a little loudly disputed the role of the Government in this field. In this legislature, the government's initiative in this field stems from the fact that in the previous legislature, having been divided between the Government and Parliament, in the sense that the government was the responsibility of the initiative on the economic field and Parliament was the responsibility of the initiative on the ground of constitutional reforms, there was the failure of the parliamentary initiative on constitutional reforms. It is therefore good, indeed necessary, that today it is the Government that is doing what Parliament objectively has not been able to do in the other legislature, in the sense of taking and managing the initiative on this ground. On this assumption, if we are invited to withdraw our amendment 8.0.16, which is in the sense of entrusting the Constitutional Court with the guarantee and therefore the granting of the authorization to proceed on behalf of the Member of Parliament, we shall withdraw our amendment. Without prejudice to the fact that we fully agree on the fundamental principle. However, we believe that a reflection on this point is appropriate and necessary and that the solution of the referee can be the one that saves the principle and avoids the possible undesirable effects, in terms of relations between Parliament and public opinion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u281	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u282	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u283	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, my speech will be a very short one, which allows me to address my colleague, Mr Chiti, in particular, who I have learned to appreciate in this debate the merits of reflections and reasonings. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Chiti, because my approach to the reasons he has proposed, but also to the comments made by Mr Quagliariello, is based on a passage which seems clear to me at this point. I would fully agree with Mr Chiti's comments if the text were at this time the one that came out of the Commission. If the text were that of the Commission, which therefore has a prevalence of the origin (I would almost say the status) of those who will become the senators of the Republic, then I would agree with all the comments made by Chiti. But the text is no longer that, because that text has been modified by the adoption of Amendment No 1.1979, tabled by Mr Candiani, which introduces - and not in a surreptitious form, as some have observed, because it would only be an organisational dimension - the theme of the senator's functions, functions which are much more than those which had been formulated in the original text. So, paradoxically, I find the work done by the rapporteurs absolutely fitting and to be supported, because, precisely, in the light of the adoption of that amendment, we have quotas of bicameralism far more important than what we want to be believed. And I would like to be able to have this debate when this text comes back to this House, i.e. if the reading that can be given today is confirmed in the House. I therefore believe that on the issue of immunity the reflections should refer to a careful reading of the status and function of the senator hic et nunc, as the legislator states, when the text is approved in its entirety. As far as I am concerned, to date, with the adoption of Amendment No 1.1979, the nature of what the Commission wanted to determine in its first step has changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u286	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take part in a collegial reflection of this Senate and in the spirit that my colleagues Chiti, Corsini and Tocci have insistently invoked in recent days. I hope that with the help of the Government and the rapporteur we can really hear each other. I am not one of those who shout at the authoritarian danger; if the extremes are the thought of making a good reform, lasting and meditated on the one hand, and that parliamentary democracy is being abolished, as some scream on the other, there are average analyses: I put myself there. I repeat: this reform itself is not the death of democracy, nor the antechamber of dictatorship, but at the moment it is not a good reform and carries risks. On the issue of immunity we can eliminate a risk factor. Parliamentary immunity is a historically and legally complicated concept. It is not possible to go through all the details, but it arises as a need to ensure that the legislative power is protected against undue interference from other powers. The most dangerous power for a young and unestablished legislative, as was the English Chamber of the late 1600s and as was the French National Assembly of the late 1700, was obviously the executive, with his police, with his weapons and with his prisons. Thus three immunitys were born, a little in England and a little in France: parliamentary indisputability, understood as freedom of speech in the performance of the functions of representation of citizens and the promotion of legislative initiatives in their sole interest; immunity from criminal proceedings, in the fear that the procurators of the king could intimidate and persecute the representatives of the people, and the immunity of the seat, so that the Chambers of the representatives of the people would not be considered as any assembly, improvised or seditious, that could be dissolved by the police. These historical origins, under fascism, in Italy, have unfortunately found many confirmations and I refer to the cases Matteotti, Amendola, Lussu and, in November 1926, well after the Aventine, Antonio Gramsci, arrested by deputy in office, before the Chamber of Deputies, overwhelmed by the fascists elected by the Acerbo law, declared it decayed together with the possessors, he who had not been. From this review I have drawn the conclusion that immunity is linked to two concepts: separation of powers and representation. This is confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court No 390 of 2007, which states that Article 68 of the Constitution aims to protect the Member from unlawful judicial interference in the exercise of his representative mandate. Now, the new Senate that we are going to conceive is already largely separated from the other powers of the State, because it has origins in the territorial authorities. It is no longer rooted in the heart of constitutional bodies; it has no trust with the Government; it will make very few laws; it will not investigate and it will not exercise parliamentary control. And then it will no longer be representative of the people: its members will no longer be the expression of the general representation, as were the members of the House of Commons or of the National Assembly. In these years, especially after 1992, when the process of repealing the authorisation to proceed criminally began, which culminated in the amendment of Article 68 of the Constitution, we have heard many times that the judiciary was politically engaged in time investigations, that wanted to subvert the result of the elections by judicial means. These narratives, which were already wrong and interested in them, fruit of lying analysis, but today it seems to me that they return against those who rigged them. In essence, even the Berlusconian vulgate of red robes confirms that immunity is associated with representation. For these reasons I am addressing the rapporteur, who has more experience than I have and who lived in Parliament that season: was it no longer correct, Senator Finocchiaro, the original establishment of the constitutional bill on this point? What's the point of guaranteeing tomorrow's senators immunity outside the nature of their duties? Why does the clear distinction between Members and senators have such importance as to grant the former and to deny the latter the parliamentary allowance, and instead that same distinction is completely discoloured when moving on the ground of immunity? I would therefore ask the rapporteur to give an additional thought to this point and to see if there are any different solutions. For example, one could return to the original text of Article 6 of the Constitutional Bill - as suggested by Senator Lanzillotta's amendment 8.0.17 - and put the complete discipline of the senators' prerogatives back to the transitional provisions or a different constitutional law, as is the case for ministers and crimes committed in the performance of their duties. I should like to conclude with a final comment on the way in which Parliament's immunity is administered. I would point out that legal institutions are not only appreciated for what they say in theory, but also and above all for how they are interpreted and applied. The practical application of parliamentary immunity in the history of Italy is not an example of transparency and fairness. This Senate, in sixty-five years of republican life, granted only one arrest, that of Luigi Lusi, in 2012; could all the other senators, for which permission for arrest was requested, be poor persecuted? Is it possible - I come back to ask - that at the same time the House granted seven arrests (which are very few) and the Senate only one? Ladies and gentlemen, are we still surprised that we are screaming at caste privileges? That is why I ask once again for a second thought. For the sake of clarity of the debate, Mr President, I therefore recommend the adoption of amendment 8.0.8, which I have signed, and identical amendments 8.0.9, 8.0.10, 8.011 and 8.0.12, which, moreover, include a proposal for a law by my colleague Roberto Giachetti from the last parliamentary term. In the alternative, I shall vote in favour of the Lanzillotta amendment 8.0.17. I also reserve the right to speak on Amendments 8.0.15 and 8.0.16, whose spirit I understand but which have a clear constitutional and systematic flaw. Finally, I do not agree with either Senator Casini or Senator Quagliariello, because the notion of parliamentary function as we have known it so far is no longer unified: from now on, Members and senators will be different subjects. Precaution would like us to return to the original text of the Government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u289	I renew my appeal to the Group leaders and colleagues to help regulate the wide-ranging debate we are holding. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I have the opportunity to express an accomplished concept, I will do so, otherwise, if I have to make it monco... president. Come on in, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must say that both President Casini and Senator Quagliariello have reminded us of the historical reasons that led the Constitutionalists to draw up Article 68 on immunity. Well, these are things we know; I must say that Senator Ricchiuti was even more precise in describing the situation of those years, particularly who were the senators and who were the magistrates. Therefore, that balance that has been remembered and those guarantees did not represent the benefits of the caste; it is clear that they were not: it is correct to speak of reasons for balancing and guarantees between the different powers of the State and not already of the benefits of the caste. Today we are living in a totally different situation. The functions we have designed - at least until now - of the new Senate of the Republic, as composed of regional councillors and mayors, I would call them promiscuous. In the matter of promiscuity, the Cassation, also in matters of ordinary civil law, affirmed the principle of prevalence. What is the principle of prevalence? It is a principle that we find in various issues of civil law: when a function or in any case a title is accompanied and governed by two different legal regimes the legal regime applies for the functions prevailing. Now, Senator Quagliariello referred, speaking of the functions of the senator, the new member of the new Senate, to the election of the President of the Republic. Well, this example is the least fitting one could point out. Even at present, the regional councils are sending the electorate of the new President of the Republic to regional councillors, who act as regional councillors. Yet they have no immunity in the exercise of their specific mandate to elect the President of the Republic. When I say to apply the principle of prevalence, it is necessary to understand whether the person who will compose the new Senate plays mainly the function of regional councilor or mayor or mainly the functions of senator of the Republic. There is no doubt, as the functions were designed, that the prevalence lies in the function of regional councilor or mayor. Therefore, while the first paragraph of Article 68 of the present Constitution is also applicable to the new Senator on time, the second part creates significant problems. We see in fact that most of the crimes of corruption and concussion are charged or at any rate challenged to those who have the government of the territory, to those who carry out administrative activities. Therefore, to provide for a broad immunity, and therefore the whole current wording of Article 68, for both branches of Parliament, as it has been drawn up again, creates, in my view, a limitation of judicial activity also in the pursuit of such offences. On the one hand, we proceed to regulate the crime of corruption, vote of exchange and whatever else, with a bill at our examination in the Commission, on the other hand we go to assert an immunity that in some way paralyses judicial activity. Replying to Senator Ricchiuti, Forza Italia reconfirms all the considerations and affirmations towards a certain judiciary, but also possesses that wisdom and loyalty aimed at resolving the issues, to make a contribution to the resolution of the same in the way most free from conditionings. On this side there are those who claim that giving immunity to all senators, with the functions imagined, is a limitation of the judicial activity, which I do not want, because I want the judges, in compliance with the laws and without prejudice or at any rate conditioning with respect to certain political forces, to do their duty. So the matter is complex, as President Palma said. Senator Palma drew the issue perfectly and then we need to identify a system that, since the Constitution on the functions of the Senate has been modified, is capable of modifying the conditions of attribution of the new Article 68, with regard to the immunity of the members of the new Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u292	CASSON (PD). Mr President, as the first signatory, I have tabled two additional amendments: Amendment 8.0.8 and Amendment 8.0.20. However, having opened this stage, albeit a short one, of discussion, I believe that some preliminary considerations should be made. I must express immediately, on the one hand, a regret, and, on the other hand, a surprise. I regret that, on such a sensitive and important subject, which is very much felt at the level of public opinion, only a part of the senators can participate and participate in the debate in fact; other parties, which we know are highly critical of, would be desirable if they could participate and intervene at this stage and at the time of the vote. On the other hand, I am surprised that in recent days we have read, a little 'in all the newspapers, that there was a sort of openness, on the part of the Government, to reason together with the Senate on how to modify this constitutional norm - these constitutional norms - referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution. Instead, this afternoon we heard that there was a closure and, for the time being, we do not understand whether it will be confirmed and to what extent. As I said, it is a very sensitive issue because it concerns precisely the very essence of being a Member of Parliament. Now - of course - I do not want to make a historical excursus of this kind of immunity that date back, not so much to the Middle Ages, at the time when the British constitutional path was started in the 13th century with the Magna Charta. I mention only that such immunity even concerned the tribes of the plebs, chosen by the plebis conciliations, precisely to represent the people and the plebs. Therefore, it means that it is a strongly felt institute, which is connaturalized with people representing the people and ordinary citizens, especially in particular historical epochs, which are those in which there were regimes, dictatorships, particular state regimes, with the presence of kings, emperors and vassals, who could subject to arrest and worse things (in England even to death) representatives of the people and citizens. I believe that all those scruples that led to the establishment of that immunity in the historical eras that I recalled were entirely justified. In the same way, I must add that even when our constituent Fathers, in 1947 and then with the entry into force of the Constitution in 1948, had decided to adopt these immunities for Members of Parliament, they had seen right: they were anchored in a precise historical era and certainly those safeguards were due. Since these are immunity and, at least those referred to in the second paragraph of Article 68, i.e. the authorisations for arrest, searches and detention relate to procedural measures, they must then be coordinated with the reasons which led our constituent Fathers from 1948 to the cautious ones. In fact, let us bear in mind that at the time, in 1948, there was a completely different system of criminal proceedings, at least until the early 1980s: those who could order arrests and catches were directly a prosecutor, with two lines, not at all motivated. Until that time he could capture people by writing in motivation: there are clues as in acts. So, without any reason. That era has ended, fortunately for a few decades: now it is no longer a prosecutor who decides, but a gip. We have a gup, a review court and a Court of Cassation that repeatedly - even continuously, even every week - can verify the validity of the measures that are taken by the primary judge, namely arrest, capture, search and so on. That's the first reason. And then let's not forget that in that 1948 and in the early 1950s, rightly, our constituent Fathers saw a danger inherent in the social struggles that would start, because at the time it was necessary to protect against a judiciary that was still heavily culturally fascist, that certainly lived in a historical era and that against the workers' struggles, the trade union struggles and the struggles of the farmers intervened to the detriment of those who were weaker and those who had less. When parliamentarians intervened to protect dissent, to protect trade union, labour and agricultural struggles, they risked heavily, even from the procedural point of view. That time, as I said, is over, and that is why I think the institution itself of immunity is a historical heritage to be overcome, I would say that it is right out of history and from this point of view we have tabled amendment 8.0.8. This amendment certainly confirms the first paragraph of that article, namely the fact that the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of the functions of all parliamentarians must be exempt from any limits of jurisdiction, as well as in the wording of Article 68 of the Constitution. But the second paragraph no longer makes sense, let alone the third paragraph, precisely for the reasons I have indicated. We propose to repeal these two paragraphs, indifferently for the House and the Senate, precisely because they strongly clash against the principle of equality of all citizens before the law. I do not know whether it is time to declare the vote also on the solution of alternative means, which we propose or there will be time space. I would remind you that the alternative proposal that we are putting forward with amendment 8.0.20 to this Senate is to allow the arrest and search of the Chambers, respectively and personally competent, and, however, only if this authorization is refused, to give the possibility of appeal to the Constitutional Court. This allows me to close some of the speeches that have been made: it is not a distortion of the function and role of the judges of the Constitutional Court, because in part here, in some rules, it is already foreseen that the judges of the Court perform judicial and criminal functions, for example with regard to the President of the Republic according to certain procedures. I shall end my speech a little bitterly, saying that we are leaving one afternoon, in my view, which leaves me and perhaps leaves us puzzled, because we have tried to propose very delicate issues in this House, which perhaps required a shot of the kidneys from the senators. We have spoken, with some amendments, of conflict of interest, of ineligibility, of incompatibility, of transparency and these amendments have been rejected without injury, without even a word from the rapporteurs, as if the issue had not even been proposed. This almost gives me the sense and the fear that, in fact, no constitutional control and verification will be accepted on the role of the Member of Parliament and that immunity will be turned into impunity. I am convinced that the principle of equality in this historic era comes before any other principle and therefore, in this sense, I repeat my support for the first amendment tabled. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u295	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that President Finocchiaro has correctly set the issue in terms of balancing powers. Beware, in 1993, when immunity was changed, Senators Casson and Finocchiaro will remember it, a series of magistrates, including myself, were opposed to that change because it would lead to a clash between the judiciary and politics, which happened. I am still convinced that it was a mistake, but let's go to the reasons why that immunity was introduced in 1948 by the Constituents. In our system, we are the only ones to have an independent and autonomous judiciary with a Supreme Council of the judiciary, created after the model of the judiciary had been identified as the Napoleonic model of the public official, and it was then necessary to identify a particular body. And don't tell me about the other countries: still today in Germany there is a temperate obligation because there is a dependence of the public prosecutor on the Minister of Justice and there is a power of the Minister to intervene on prosecution and in France there is even the discretion of prosecution. On the other hand, there is a balancing problem with us. What's immunity for? The formula resulting from the 1993 reform, which is already restrictive, is not about the election, but about the function of the MEP in particular in terms of legislative activity and, here, also for the function of modification of the Constitutional Court. So, if that's power, let's go introduce limitations. I understand Senator Casson's amendment, which, with special attention to the criminal trial and the investigator rather than the judge, wants to free any possibility of restraint - not of braking - to the action of the judiciary for which it is proposed to eliminate everything. On the other hand, I do not understand who wants to introduce only the indisputability of the opinions expressed. I would remind you that the same is not only already provided for in the Constitution for regional councillors, but also for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There are many bodies for which the same guarantee is provided, but for their activity it is administrative in nature. We are dealing here with the legislative function. So the problem I referred to by Mr Palma on the profiles of the two functions, which I have already referred to with regard to the composition and constraint of the mandate, is the need to distinguish clearly and, therefore, to say that at least they were senators except those elected to the Regional Council. A Parliament, the legislative bodies, therefore a central power in the legal system of the State, in any country in the world have the ability to self-determine and cannot turn to third parties. Senator Chiti remembered badly: even in the case that referred to Berlusconi there was no indication that he suggested that the Constitutional Court should address it after the decision taken by the Senate on this matter. As the Junta was a judicial body - not for my own sake, but for that of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation - it was entitled to raise the question of the legality of the rule and not of the procedure. So there is no doubt, and even today, if we were to address the Constitutional Court to assess the legitimacy of a rule, there would be no problem. So it is clear that there is a problem, because having the same function, the senator is a regional adviser, but you will hardly be able to convince me that the solution adopted by the Commission in terms of balancing powers in the state is not the most correct. Rather, it is the Government that will have to take charge in the next steps to take account of these and other observations that we have made regarding the need to put the composition of the Senate back in place. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u298	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I am very pleased with the level of the debate on this subject. The need was felt, partly because it was an afternoon that had left us puzzled by the speed and lack of discussion. I shall immediately enter into the substance of the debate with a clarification which I think is very appropriate. We do not have the ambition - and I do not think we could even have it - to address all the problems that the Italian Constitution poses in relation to the limits it has demonstrated over time with regard to various aspects. At this moment we are dealing with a particular reform, the end of bicameralism, so from this point of view it does not scandalize me and I would not be shocked that, with reform approved, some of the problems on the table remain unresolved. I say this because we have just voted on the amendments to Article 66 of the Constitution, even when we immediately enter into the substance of the issues that concern Members, and yet that article also presents some critical issues that this House has experienced on the Berlusconi case. At that time, if you remember, not only in the Chamber, but also in the public debate around the case Berlusconi was immediately said (the wise men also said it, especially the then Minister Quagliariello) that Article 66 was inadequate, that it was necessary to put an end to the legislation chosen by the Constituents in 1948. Many of us have therefore set out to introduce the possibility of an appeal to the Constitutional Court, that is to say, to entrust the Constitutional Court with what we call the verification of powers today, because in that case, there is no discretion at all: if it is only necessary to check whether or not there are conditions for the election or the maintenance of a position of a single Member or Senator, then the Junta of the elections can do so, as we have done in the case of Berlusconi, but even more so, or in the same way, the Constitutional Court can do so. We could talk about that, too. I myself have tabled an amendment in the Commission, and indeed the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled an amendment which we have abandoned, not because we did not believe it, but because it did not seem ripe at this time, on this occasion, to go in that direction. Today we are talking about the prerogatives of Members and, in support of what the rapporteur has said, I would like to reconstruct the truth of the debate. No one has reconstituted or returned immunity to anything. We found ourselves discussing whether or not what we were drawing was bicameralism, albeit not equal, and, we were faced with an affirmative answer, that is to say, with the awareness that it was bicameralism that was not equal and that therefore there continued to be a Chamber of Deputies and a Senate, which we wanted to call the Senate of the Republic to give meaning to the functions that it will continue to have. In the context of this debate, it has emerged that if bicameralism is involved, as most of us see, it is not the system of election (whether first or second level), but it is the functions, so if the Chambers are two (the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic), then it is right to discuss in a single context the prerogatives to be accorded to parliamentarians. Therefore, this means that none of us have stood up for immunity, starting with the rapporteur who has presented the work she has done in this House today. None of us has argued that immunity should be those and remain unchanged, but that in a different climate and context it could always be discussed. For example, it is possible to opt for possible mediation, it can be assumed that the arrest should continue to be authorised and that the other forms of protection no longer serve; it can be assumed that the Constitutional Court will check. The debate has been so rich that there would be little to add, but I have not heard of one thing. Today we are wondering whether it is right or not to recognize these prerogatives to the senators. In this regard, I tell you my opinion, that it is not just mine. The problem of prerogatives exists much more for the House of Members who, Mr President, will be elected with a majority system and if we do not intervene heavily on the system, for example on the composition of the election committees, we will continue to live the film that we have already seen, that of a majority that votes and defeats its Members. You see then that the problem does not arise so much and only for the Senate, but above all for the House of Deputies. We have done well, therefore, to discuss it, but the other branch of Parliament will also do well to discuss it again, because it may be that the solution will not be found at the moment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u300	You may, but I appeal to you as a member of the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u301	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in the hope and conviction of accepting your appeal, however, I would like to make a contribution to this debate, which starts from that Constitution launched by our constituent Fathers, who - as I recall - were of the People's Party, then Christian Democrats, Communists, Socialists, Republicans and Liberals who at that time, coming from a dictatorship, had well aware of what they had to do. For this reason, they tried to make a Constitution that should be read together and that cannot be broken continuously. In 1993, in fact, it was broken restrictively - and Senator Caliendo is right - in order to alter the guarantees, balances and balance, while never this Parliament, neither the Chamber of Deputies, nor the Senate of the Republic, had the opportunity to touch Title IV: the judiciary is untouchable, while everything else is touchable, so that Title IV cannot touch anyone! But do you think that Calamandrei, De Gasperi, Nenni and Dossetti, those who made the Constitution, were amateurs to the erratic or had created a balance? This, which is the novel of democracy - a word difficult to understand - and it is a single one, it must be read all together, and from it we must pull out the balances. Let me give you an example: you know why in the United States, when Strauss-Kahn was arrested, it took the prosecutor thirty days to say: "Out, he is innocent." Because he would have been a waitress after that, and he wouldn't have been suing anymore. In Italy, however, the judiciary is untouchable: in 27 years from the point of view of civil liability, there have been four cases, but those responsible have not yet paid. That's what we can't understand! Of course we miss Togliatti here, because Senator Finocchiaro is not Togliatti; of course we miss De Gasperi, because in fact President Renzi is not De Gasperi and much less Calderoli is Nenni or Pertini. We therefore need to return to that spirit and therefore to see the Constitution all together and not to do something clumsy. We must be aware that we cannot follow the mood of populism: for example, today we have before our eyes the question of Pantani's death, which has re-emerged. At that time, there was populism and judicial protagonism turned against one who had been a champion and even did not want to grasp certain elements that could have opened an investigation on issues that instead emerge now. Yet, ten years ago, I had made sure that in his city there was a monument to a victim of evil justice, namely the monument to Pantani, which is still in Aulla.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u304	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to say that the FI-PdL XVII Group will vote in favour of the measure as approved by the Commission. Despite the debate, I must say that the statements by Mr Chiti and Mr Casson have not convinced me at all. This is the status of a Member of Parliament. I believe that all the other subjects have, unfortunately, an evocative representation, for a verse, but that it does not take on the mark. On the appeal to the Constitutional Court, let me remind you that Senator Chiti referred to the fact that when we voted on the Berlusconi case, the request had been made by several parties. The situation we want, however, is a little different from what it is: we have a Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity, which is a political body, in which only the Presidency is given to oppositions and minorities, but it is a fake one. The majority in it, in fact, in this case, is the one that supports the Government, if therefore it has been decided politically that Berlusconi must go home, goes home. Therefore, it would perhaps be appropriate for the Rules of Procedure to review this situation, without recourse to the Constitutional Court, using the same method and criterion as the Copasir, i.e. by providing for a joint representation. At that point, those decisions that were to be made would be decisions that would not have the political sense they have today. Therefore, we can do this and constitutional reform is not necessary to do so. So I believe, and convincedly, that precisely by virtue of the work that the senator is doing, even if not directly elected, it is right that he should have all the prerogatives that colleagues in the House have.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u305	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u307	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I too am in favour of voting on the text approved by the Commission. However, I would like to have a few minutes, also to say why I have this position. I consider this debate to be of good quality but, above all, I consider the subject to be extremely sensitive. We have addressed an issue of great importance, on which many of us have different opinions (different in fundamentals and different in nuances) and also different solutions. In the 1948 Constitution, which we all consider to be a great Constitution and which we all renew today precisely because we want to preserve it in its fundamental principles, two very important institutions have been incorporated. One we talk about now; another we talked about a couple of sessions ago. They are two very important guarantee institutions: one is parliamentary immunity, and another is the secret vote. These institutes were not always used as the Constituents had imagined should be used. The secret vote has sometimes been used for political manoeuvres, not to protect the conscience of Members. Immunity has been used to guarantee the freedom of parliamentarians visibly guilty of the accusations that had been brought against them by the judiciary. In the face of the problem that we are now facing, with regard to the new Senate, there are essentially two positions (as they emerge from the amendments): one is the position of those who claim that immunity should be abolished, that it should be abolished for both branches of Parliament and that only the unmistakable views expressed by Members should be preserved. There is another position which, on the other hand, calls for immunity to be maintained in the version in which today it is intended for both the House of Deputies and the Senate. There are then intermediate positions, such as that of recourse to the Constitutional Court. These are positions that come into effect with different mechanisms. But, basically, the positions are two, unified by one element. The two positions believe that Members and senators should have the same treatment: both those who want to abolish and those who want to retain immunity. I think there are more reasons for maintaining immunity, just as I think there are more reasons for keeping the secret vote than there are the reasons for it. I do not believe that the misuse of these institutions has been made is a sufficient argument to remove, remove and delete from the Constitution two institutions of great delicacy, which the Constituents have imagined, thought out, written and approved to protect the legislative power. We are defining a Senate other than the present, we are breaking the mechanism of equal bicameralism, but the new Senate, although representative of the territories, although elected to second degree, we attribute competences in constitutional matters, we attribute a role in the election of the Constitutional Court, we attribute a role in the election of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, we attribute a role of great delicacy. Now, you see, everything or whatever we have to review our legal system, even in the field of justice, you know, I think we will be dealing with it from next autumn. However, I do not believe that we have the right to touch on the fundamental principles. We will work to change Italian justice and make it more efficient, but we will not touch, we must not touch on the great principles that protect it as the independence of the judiciary. Similarly, I think we must be very careful when discussing immunity or secret voting. I think that deep debates such as what we have held this afternoon should be held in the House and the Senate on the use and abuse of these instruments, but I also think that it is very important for us to be able to resist the temptation to destroy something that has been imagined by the Constituents as a corollary of one of the fundamental principles of our Constitution: the separation of powers. I believe that this is an important element, I think that we need to think about it, and I think that for this reason we must approve the text which the Commission has approved after a very long debate, after a long debate and after much reflection. In respect of the principles of our constituent Fathers, in respect of the profile of parliamentary democracy, in respect of the need to protect the division of powers, I believe that we should vote on the text approved by the Commission and therefore maintain the limited form of immunity which has remained after the radical reform of 1993. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u308	At this point there are two requests for intervention from members of the Misto Group, which exceeded the time allowed by two hours. So I can give Senator Orellana a minute, a minute to Senator Maurizio Rossi. Then there was the request for intervention of Senator Corsini, I imagine in dissent from his Group (I say this to regulate our times), and that of Senator Pagliari, who however renounces to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u311	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I shall try to be brief. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has to be. Orellana (Misto-ILC). I would like to point out to you that from the point of view of the citizens, it makes a great difference between a directly elected Member (being well aware that by electing him immunity), and a regional councillor, or a mayor, who are not directly elected by citizens as senators, because citizens do not imagine that they can enjoy immunity. This immunity will be conferred on him by a limited number of persons, the regional advisers, who will extend this prerogative to him. I believe that this choice, yes, will feed the demagogy and the most varied roots, commenting on what President Casini said. That's the risk. I also believe that, if we do not differentiate between these two types of Members, this will be used by those who comment on the referendum as an argument against this reform. I do not think it is right for anyone who is in favour of this reform to make such a differentiation, because it will certainly be used as an argument against it. A careful assessment must be made; I have not tabled any amendments on this issue, but I believe that this difference must be made between the Member and the Senator, because it suits everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u314	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, first of all, I always find myself in the positions of Senator Chiti. I make a few small considerations: think, for example, of a region like Liguria, where one of the great voters of the President of the Republic was inquisition and had to resign, perhaps one of the people with the greatest problems. Think that Liguria is a region with 25 inquisitions and three arrested. Well, what can be the position of these subjects, since everyone (because we are going towards the elections) is thinking, believe me, of running again? First of all I think that the Regional Council has already pretended not to know what was happening, because in the Liguria Region five years ago there was an economic separation between the Council and the Region and therefore clearly the Junta pretends not to know the facts that happened in the Regional Council. But there is one thing that I think can be really important and it is a reflection that we will be doing in a few months' time. A reflection that I invite you to make all those who will have to fill out the lists: we will see how you will fill out those lists, all the parties, because you have all been involved in the scandal of crazy expenses, so much so that there is no longer opposition in a Region with Liguria (because everyone is part of it). We'll see how you fill out the lists. Will we take the names of those people? Will it really be easy to tell the voters what I said, that perhaps they are electing that person who could become a senator?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u315	I'm asking for dissent from my group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u316	I take note of that and give you the floor. The time allocated to your group for dissenting interventions is also exhausted, but I entrust myself to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u317	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I do not speak for a minute in dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not for a minute, but I warn you that your Group has run out of time to do so. Mr Corsini (PD). These are subjects on which we must argue and not send tweets that correspond to what Wittgenstein calls the cramp of the intellect, that is, a slogan. I will therefore ask you to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u318	He'll always disagree, but that's okay. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u319	Mr President, allow me a minute to make a few remarks. The first is that I come out from this afternoon not at all perplexed but, on the contrary, satisfied with a discussion that has manifested itself in all its breadth and depth. The second question is that I would like all my colleagues, first of all of course, to bear in mind that we are not deciding for ourselves, but for us, who will be the next Senate of the Republic. The third question is that, should we repeal the second and third paragraphs of Article 68 (this is my opinion, of course, and also that of Senator Calderoli), we would not make an operation with any sense, because the point lies in the prediction that the European Parliament is authorized to proceed in full (i.e. before the 1993 reform for Members of the European Parliament); but that might be an inappropriate comparison, given that MEPs are directly elected, but the authorisation to proceed also exists in other European countries where there is indirect election, as in Belgium and France. It seems to me particularly acute that Senator Lo Moro refers to two issues: the first is that a translation of the prerogatives referred to in Article 68 would also affect Members; the second is that, to assess the need for a regime such as that brought by the second and third paragraphs of Article 68 in a House which could be dominated by the principle of majority would certainly include greater reflection. I call on my fellow Members to reflect on one fact. If the Senate organ, as well as reformed, succeeds in fulfilling its promises, it will be an organ that will have very intense and penetrating control functions, being a Chamber without trust. Then I think that we can, and rightly so, discuss again the possibility of maintaining immunity or removing it from the senators when we see this organ and those functions at work. The call made by Senator Quagliariello, very opportune, to the principle of caution I think applies also because of this: the structure and balance between the different powers also concerns the structure and balance that is given by the new functions and powers that we attribute to the Senate of the Republic. After that, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite clear how the rapporteurs feel about maintaining the text approved by the Commission, which - as I said - is a satisfactory transaction point, in our view. Each of us, then, is free to think of it as transitional, in the sense of thinking that in the coming years, following a better and more thoughtful assessment of the effects of the reform, the issue can be rethought. But since I believe that this issue really belongs to the sovereignty of the House, I am referring to the various amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u320	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u321	We shall now proceed to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Buemi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.0.2, tabled by Mr Buemi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.3. In view of the absence of the proposer, it is deemed to have fallen. Barani (GAL). Mr President, I support it and ask for its vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.3, tabled by Senators Compagna and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.4 tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.5. In view of the absence of the proposer, it is deemed to have fallen. Barani (GAL). Mr President, I also accept the signing of this amendment and I would ask that it be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.5, tabled by Senators Compagna and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u322	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u324	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in these long days, sometimes even in solitude, we have heard a constant torment regarding the constituent Fathers and the great changes that have taken place. In short, it was all a choir: the mutations that took place, which would have made the Fathers themselves say that they needed to make important changes to the Constitution they gave us. Therefore, I really do not understand: if the prevailing element of this reform is represented not so much and not only by overcoming the perfect bicameralism, on which we have all basically expressed ourselves in favour, but precisely by the innovation, which we have opposed and contrasted, represented by this Senate of the appointed and not of the elected, then it is recognized the value of representing the territories, and each senator is representative of its territories and, above all, of its great voters, who have selected and made senator among equals. Well, no, we are not chasing anyone, it is not that we are following populism; others have done so. We are not pursuing anyone, but we are also convinced that instead we must not pursue, but lead a movement that can allow the increase of the participation of the citizens and the increase of the rights, those denied today, those paradoxically there were and that, instead, you propose to eliminate, obviously assuming the responsibilities. This is not about threats or special tones. Choices are made that reduce rights and democracy. You can turn it any way you want, but it's a fact. I am part of that generation that for example lived as an extraordinary value, even greater than the actual precise one, the lowering of the right to vote to 18 years. We felt fully within a democratic path and served the generation of which I have been part to feel fully part of a democratic path, within a recognition of the nation, of the country. For many of us, he made the "Piave" the fact that he could participate directly in the choices, assuming responsibility. Because - we said - we men are good for military service, but not to decide who is to represent us: simple concepts. Now you decide to remove this right for a branch of Parliament to which, even tonight, in order to counter our "senatic" judgment, you continue to say that you confer fundamental responsibilities. Well, then decide that the Italian people are all underage again! It would be nice if it were an historical fact, with a country of very young people, instead it is ugly, because we withdraw from fundamental rights. So, really, of the two one: if the prevailing one for this new Senate is the representation of the territories, then it is good that the rights and duties of the senators are harmonious with the rights and duties of those who represent territories, Regions, big cities, and who, however, do not enjoy the prerogatives such as those that are expected. Otherwise, there must also be consistency with the prerogatives which, as we say in Amendment 8.0.6 above, relate solely to the fact that Members of Parliament cannot be called upon to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u327	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am only speaking to make a proposal. Since there are four basically equal amendments, I would propose that they be voted on together. The explanation of vote will be made by Senator Corsini. I am referring to amendments 8.0.6 which essentially retain the first paragraph, 8.0.8 in my first signature, 8.0.9 and 8.0.10, which have the same effect. Therefore, in order to ensure that subsequent explanations of vote are not precluded and in some way blocked, I propose that a single vote be taken in conjunction with amendment 8.0.6. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, Senator Casson, that seems to me to be a correct request; we must also consider, since essentially identical, amendments 8.0.11 and 8.0.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u328	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u329	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u330	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, as always, Mr Zanda's speeches are in a discourseal and non-declamational tone and bring arguments which are far from peregrine. So I try to take seriously and give due consideration to the assessments that my colleague has presented to us. Moreover, in the choice of Mr Finocchiaro, the rapporteurs, to return to the Chamber, I read a wish to inaugurate, along this rather tormented and rough path, a climate of confrontation not only civil, but open in such a way that everyone can let himself be questioned by the reasons and motivations of the other. It seems to me that this debate can be assumed as a litmus test of what seems to me and some friends the inconsistencies, the apories, the contradictions of the reform text. And I come back to the sore point, on the central issue to which this debate too, I believe not by chance, can be brought back. If the prospect is a Senate of the autonomous, and if it is a Senate of appointed, who, moreover, do not represent the nation, well, how can these nominations have an immunity understood - because only in this way can it be understood - as a guarantee from abuse and certainly not as a privilege? Moreover, I have always listened with interest to Senator Quagliariello - but also Senator Mauro on the occasion of the discussion of another amendment - who pointed out that, if the senators who are part of the so-called Senate of the Republic, but who are materially the Senate of the self-governments, have the prerogative to vote on constitutional laws and electoral laws of national scope, it is evident that a discrepancy is created between this data and the original motivation, which re-emerges in all its importance also in this discussion. But there are at least two or three other elements that I think deserve to be highlighted. I can follow Mr Zanda, to whom I am also linked a relationship of familiarity and friendship, when he rightly recalls the passages he had in 1993, but the fact remains that today we are faced with a contradictory and improper use of the prerogative of immunity; in the sense that we have known immunity, alas, as a generalized amnesty and as the practice of impunity, on the one hand, and on the other hand, especially in the more recent era, we have known it as a behaviour which substantially ran towards a public opinion often forcaiola, which lives the resentment of parliamentarians, caste, and political staff. So, how do we get out of this contradiction? On the one hand, immunity as impunity; on the other hand, improper use of authorization to proceed as a punitive element, as a corrigial surrender. This I believe is the contradiction, and it is the first fact. I'll move on to number two. There is no doubt that there is a discrepancy, a kind of differentiation of status between the Regional Councillor and the Regional Councillor Senator. The same goes for the mayor. So, in practical practice, the possibility of acting on the legislation that is being proposed to us today, how can we distinguish - in fact - the particularity of behaviour that must be traced back to different statuses? I therefore believe that there are two possible solutions: indisputability, which, in my opinion, should be extended, as a category - as regards protection without any limit and without any constraint, the wider protection of freedom of expression and thought - also to the matter of interceptions; or recourse to the Court. Here I would like to report to my colleagues on an inconvenience that I live every time I have to make judgments, but I believe that my discomfort is the discomfort of all my colleagues. We have been elected to legislate; we have not been elected to judge. If I had time, I'd like to report some passages... I would ask you to conclude. Mr Corsini (PD). I would like to refer to some passages from an extraordinary book by Foucault on the power to judge as an expression of a sort of will for power. How can the individual Member, the individual senator, be called upon to judge a colleague with respect to a knowledge of the cards and the conditions of subsistence or not of the fumus persecutionis which, for the vast majority of colleagues, is completely absent? I say this and I conclude here not because you are seeking a disposal of responsibility, but as an expression of the awareness of my limit. I would even like to say, if I were to use a more general category, of the limit of politics: a mild policy does not judge, but tries to legislate taking into account the mediation and conciliatory dimension that is inherent in its essence. That is why I believe that the two possible categories of amendment that we have proposed answer the questions I raised. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u331	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to amendments 8.0.8, tabled by Senator Casson and other Senators, 8.0.9, tabled by Senator Biinella and other Senators, 8.0.10, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 8.0.11, tabled by Senator Campanella, and 8.0.12, presented by Senator Crimi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.13, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.14, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.0.15 and 8.0.16 have been withdrawn. In view of the absence of the proposer, amendment 8.0.17 has fallen. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.18, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.19, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.20, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.21, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We have completed the examination of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 8. I recall that we had a two-hour debate during which 21 senators spoke. This shows that there has been an in-depth discussion on this point, in which everyone has been able to express their views and the Government has returned to the Assembly. At this point, as the rapporteur suggested, having also voted on Article 9, we will resume the examination of the draft law at a later stage. I would therefore like to refer the debate back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u332	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1582, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, shall we not suspend? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now listening to Senator Pagliari's report, then we are opening the general debate and there are many Members who are speaking, so I think that the debate will engage in the next hours of the work of the House. 20.07 p.m. If senators lower their voices, Senator Pagliari can perform his oral relationship. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u333	Thank you, President. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u334	Wait a minute. Please, I ask who stays in this Chamber because they want to lower their voices and sit in their seats and others to go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u335	Senator Pagliari, I invite you to speak and begin your speech. [[Brusio.]] Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, in this situation I give up the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, she does it, but I still ask the senators who are stopping in front of the central exit, like Senator Minzolini and Senator Chiti, to move. Also because the one who sat down is interested, Senator Pagliari. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. I will add to this oral report a summary of the decree-law that comes today to this Senate in the context of conversion. [[Brusio. Recalls of the Presidency.]] It is clear that it is not possible to go into detail of the measures included in this decree except with a report of hours. Here we can only make some considerations about the establishment of the decree-law related to the case of conversion. We are faced with a decree-law that assumes the objectives of simplification, administrative transparency and the efficiency of judicial offices. The ambition, given by the heading of the decree, is very high and I believe that it could not be resolved, as has been done, if we were not in front of a decree-law that has a prodromic function in relation to the reforms announced by the Government both in matters of public administration and in matters of justice. It is in this key that the legislative intervention of the Government must be read through the decree of urgency and it is in this key that it is justified the re-understanding in the decree of measures that concern different issues, but that all belong to the reformer plan that the Government has proposed to realize. [[Brusio]] President, I do not claim to be heard, but at least to have the conditions to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u336	Colleagues, you who are behind the rapporteur, allow him to speak quietly. Senator Formigoni, please lower your voice. Please, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u337	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. From this point of view, there are the measures which have the function of eliminating some open questions of a contingent type and such as to create the premises for the draft reformer that is entrusted, as far as public administration is concerned, to the law delegation and, for justice, to the bill foretold. Measures concerning public administration shall be governed by the rules on employment in public administrations with regard to detention in service. The turnover is a measure relating to the identification of work units and which provides for the possibility of their movement to the premises of the public administrations in the municipality where they are served and their transfer to locations outside 50 kilometres. With regard to the issue of justice, the decree-law focuses on a number of issues in particular. There is a great deal of effort in the telematic process, both civil and criminal, administrative, accounting and tax. These are measures which seek to speed up the activation of this mechanism, which can undoubtedly be an element of speeding up the judicial process, but which is by no means the solution to its problems. I share the need to insist on this, but I would also like to stress here that the true reform of justice will never begin in this country until we start from the categorical imperative to create the conditions for the process to be swift and to ensure that this speed is an obligation for all operators of the system. If this is not done, the constitutional principle of equal law for all will not be realized, nor will Italy's entry into European countries and into international dynamics. It is a very difficult issue, which could not be addressed here and is not addressed. But it is an issue that questions politics, the government, the Parliament in "first person" because it requires a reformer courage, an ability to think about changing the judicial custom as a whole, which is as ethically important as it is politically for sure. In the context of the measures on the reform of justice there are also provisions on the administrative process and, in particular, judgments on major public works, both in the area of precautionary justice and in the area of substantive judgment. With this reform there is a very strong acceleration in the administrative process in the field of public works, in order to eliminate that brake which was charged to this process in the context of major public works. Especially when the suspensive precautionary ordinances intervened and then there were not the judgments of merit that had to close the judgment and give certainty to the next perspective of the case of construction of public works. The measure taken in this case is very drastic, very clear, and has rightly raised doubts and oppositions. But I think it's a base of departure and an experimental base that we can't escape from. In fact, if this country is to have legal certainty, it cannot fail to find the correct contemperation of the need for legal certainty and respect for legality with the need for the growth of the country itself. Moreover, this rapidity, this certainty in the matter of public works, is also necessary so that we can really begin in this field to break down all the corrupting system that is much of the blockage of public works and its exotic cost. In this respect, there are also other measures included in the Decree-Law under consideration and which concern, from an administrative point of view, the Public Procurement Code, in which some immediate corrective measures are introduced with a view to its overall reform, to which it will be expected in a logical belief of thinning the whole of the Public Contract Code. It is, in fact, a huge code which contains very fair principles, but which must go through a drying-up of the provisions in order to have clarity and certainty, as well as to ensure a more streamlined process of awarding public works, as is required by the need for the works to have a prompt execution, so that on this issue it can also create a virtuous circuit that will also help the economic recovery as a whole. What, in my opinion, is a limit of the decree-law in question, if I may make this observation? It is a "milleproroghe" - and I use this expression to take up the well-known "milleproroghe" - which, as such, has this limit in itself: the design that is at the base of it can be lost within the framework of the norms. There is, however, above all, a risk in the "millum" decrees, which I believe I have a duty to point out here, because it is a reflection addressed to Parliament and not a criticism to the Government: I am referring to the risk that there will be a conditioning of ministerial bureaucracies, which degrades the design desired by the Government and introduces elements that do not go in the direction of the objectives pursued. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] For me - although I believe that this reflection involves the Government and everyone who has been to the Commission today - this is a bitter moment, because having had to take note of the necessity, determined by the reference to Article 81 of the Constitution, to abolish the rule of the so-called "quota 96," that is, the one relating to school, the compensation of the victims of terrorism and the penalty, was indeed a reason for discomfort, from the point of view of conscience. It was a time when for me there was a moment of powerlessness in politics, to which I believe we must all react. What has happened with regard to these provisions calls for a reflection and a reaffirmation of the role proper to the legislative function. We were forced, as Senate, to note that there was no financial cover on those measures and therefore to decree the abolition of them: we do not understand, however, why this, if it happened here, did not happen in the House. If the lack of coverage is a data not questionable - and it cannot be - the lack of coverage was also there at the time of the vote in the Chamber of Deputies and cannot take over only when the Senate of the Republic vote [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] It is absolutely not acceptable for the technical role to be able to determine such conditions, in which there is a serious contradiction between the two branches of Parliament on a purely technical matter and not on the political merit of a choice translated into a provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Making it seem that Government and Parliament are going back on a decision taken when it should not have been allowed, if, under Article 81 of the Constitution, there was no budgetary coverage. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] I believe that this is a matter of profound reflection, which leaves me with a great bitterness. But I guess I'm not the only one. However, I hope that this will re-establish the role of the State Accounting and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance with respect to the indication of the possible lack of coverage, because the Government and Parliament make the choices, not the State Accounting, leaving at the same time - that is, outside the time required - on the lack of budgetary coverage. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u338	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u339	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u340	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, before we proceed with the general debate, I would like to ask, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a question for a preliminary ruling on this decree-law, as Mr Morra said when the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was put to the vote. The urgent decree is used for a measure presenting 50 articles covering the whole of human knowledge. It was supposed to be 50 bills, not 50 articles of a decree! A provision that has been approved in the House with a lack of cover and that arrives in a Senate that has to correct it: a Senate that will no longer be there, according to what you have just established. I would like to know how, next time, a State that finds itself with a House that adopts a measure without covering. I'd like to know where he'll find the money to pay for the wrong choices. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And they're not technical choices, Senator Pagliari. I am sorry, but they are political choices, because in order to make that amendment, in addition to the technical choices, there have also been very precise political choices. There was the House's Budget Committee which clearly gave the favourable opinion, and so the various relevant Commissions. Having said that, the question for a preliminary ruling is asked about the abnormal use, for the umpteenth time, of the decree of urgency for a measure that was to be adopted by ordinary bill (in fact, with more than one ordinary bill). Hence, from the point of view of homogeneity and urgency, we are actually merely dealing with government failures. There are a number of urgencys dictated by government failures: non-implementation of previous laws, previous decrees and previous norms. I'm just saying that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u341	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u342	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u343	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u344	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, I am a little surprised by this question, because I thought we were already on the subject. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] If Mr Crimes allows me to continue, I can recall that we have discussed the constitutional conditions and that the arguments that are offered are essentially the same. The homogeneity of the decree, the urgency and the necessity are precisely the premises we have discussed, on which we have focused and which we have voted. However, at this moment in time, the nervousness that exists between us in this House and that is in my colleague Crimi, to whom I am bound a relationship of respect (as with all my colleagues in the Commission, who are always very polite and make their political speeches, but always respecting the rules) does not surprise us. In fact, a little nervousness is spreading around because certainly, as the rapporteur said earlier, it is not good for one branch of Parliament to be faced with the impossibility of discussing, to be before the Government which has put forward amendments that have been deleted and, with this presentation, it prevents us from entering into the substance and understanding what could have happened in the other branch of Parliament. I make this speech, to ourselves, but also to future memory. We are discussing a structural reform and the bicameralism of which so much is said and to which we attribute so many defects will no longer exist and, in fact, this sort of ping pong between the two rooms will no longer be possible. We are seeing this situation too often, and on very sensitive issues, which also affect subjective spheres of citizens' rights. I am talking, for example, about workers who feel, and are being, penalised at the moment because, apart from the substance of the matter, getting to have one branch of Parliament that approves and the other that is forced to remove a rule is much worse than never having adopted it. This nervousness unites us, and that is what I wanted to say to my colleague. And I want to say that, of course, we will vote against this question. On the contrary, we are convinced of the need to insist on the defence of the measure, as it was born and as it appears in the general lines. There are so many issues of merit that we too will probably also be voting on, because there will be a vote of confidence. However, it is not said that everything contained in this provision convinces us to the full or that it would convince us to the full, if we had had the freedom to discuss it as does the House that assesses it first. It's just that we're in a very delicate situation. The heart of the problem, which is the heart of the decree-law, is something we cannot give up. This will be better said by the speeches in general discussion and in final explanations of vote, which have been entrusted to other colleagues. I would remind everyone that we could never opt for the extreme choice of dropping this measure for any reason, because this will be a measure that, on some matters, I am referring for example to procurement legislation, is well written and will also allow to achieve the results of Expo 2015 in the time and in the manner envisaged. That is the heart of the provision around which things have been built that we probably wanted and could have discussed more. Moreover, there is a parallel bill, probably much of this legislation would have convinced us more, if it had been inserted into a bill than the decree-law. So much, the heart of the problem, as I have said and I insist on saying, is absolutely to be preserved and therefore this measure must be voted on. We will presumably vote on it with a vote of confidence and this will not allow us to make our contribution properly. The Minister is here and he knows that there was a bit of nervousness in the Commission today and not just among the opposition benches. I, for example, shared many points, such as an amendment that I myself withdrew on behalf of the Civic Choice Group, which concerned the early retirement of journalists and a regulation that I would have liked to discuss much more, which does not convince me. However, I am convinced by the complex, which is strong and with respect to which the preliminary ruling has no reason to exist. For this reason, I am voting against the question referred for a preliminary ruling on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u346	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u347	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Madam President, the New Centre Group will also vote against this question. We defend the spirit of the decree, whose principles, already stated in the title, of simplification, transparency and efficiency, we certainly agree and for this reason we want this decree to go forward. We also understand the moment when this decree arrives at the vote here in the Senate, in the middle of the reform debate, so we also prepare to vote on it with a vote of confidence. However, I cannot ignore the uneasiness that our Group feels in dealing with the need to delete some of the rules that have probably been adopted in the other branch of Parliament with some ease, rules that deal with subjective rights of persons, to which we are now unfortunately giving a negative response. We would have preferred not to raise this expectation and not to be in this situation. That is why I wanted to stress this uneasiness, but I would point out that the Group of the New Right Centre will vote against this question. [[Applause from the NCD Group and ironic applause from Senator Crimes. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u350	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is true that it repetits iuvant, but I would not like to abuse the House's ability to listen to repetitions. We have already widely expressed, during the examination of the constitutional presuppositions that we have voted on today, our position of absolute conviction of the violation of the constitutional precepts contained in Article 77 as presuppositions of constitutionality necessary for the survival of a decree-law. We can only reiterate what we have said, namely that there is a vice under the decree-law that we are now dealing with, Decree-Law No. 90, which has undergone a series of pathologies in the race: it is born pathological, already uneven and spoiled by the total absence of the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency required by the Constitution. It is born spoiled in the covers, like moreover the decree competitiveness in question now in the House. We have repeated this repeatedly and have repeatedly asked the Government to listen to our cry not only for grief, but for our cry for constitutional legitimacy. Therefore, all this said and taking into account also the things that we have said during today's debate, I repeat that this intervention was necessary, but it is not sufficient and it is above all untimely what the Government has done by submitting four amendments and eliminating parts of the text giving rise to rules brandishly not covered that have resulted in the lack of "boiling" by the General Accounting of the State. I was saying: it is certainly necessary, but as far as we are concerned it is not enough, because there are other opaque parts of a text which is still uneven, but it is not an integral part of the requirements of necessity and urgency which must characterize a decree-law. However, the need for this Parliament - of this House and of the whole Parliament - to carry out a constitutional check as far as we are competent, having skipped all the other filters from the highest to ours. Another fact that we cannot fail to consider and that we add to the censures and criticisms that will lead - the advance - to a favourable vote on this preliminary constitutionality by our Group, is the fact that for us it is not irrelevant that the Government has forced a House of Parliament of the Republic to vote and approve a measure clearly spoiled by inconstitutionality, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, because the first approval to the Chamber of Deputies has led to the adoption of a measure through which, with four amendments submitted by the Government only now and only to the Senate, there is evidence of the obvious inconstitutionality of this provision. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] For all these reasons and still others, including the statement by President Renzi this evening (who candidly declared that he had eliminated the so-called "quota 96," but that there is no problem because it was not in the context of this measure and the Government will make an ad hoc measure dedicated only to this, because it was clear that the seat matter was not this), considering that it was not necessary to add anything else, because he has already said all President Renzi, I confirm our favorable vote on the question for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u353	MARTON (M5S). I wanted to clarify how we are going to proceed, because it seemed to me that you had announced a statement in favour and against, contrary to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I said before that every group had the right to speak for ten minutes. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] MARTON (M5S). In fact, it has announced something else: instead, Article 93, paragraph 4, deals with this. [[Comments from the PD Group]] There's no point in saying no.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u354	It's okay. I said a representative could speak for the group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u355	[[Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u356	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u357	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u358	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I speak very briefly because the subject has been taken up in this House several times. We are faced with measures of absolute complexity that are overwhelmingly going through the operation of the public apparatus, from local to ministerial administrations, and more than a condition for overall improvement of the bureaucratic machinery, we are going to see a further complication in its operation. In fact, they were all measures that would have the dignity of an even accelerated debate, but in their own seats. And this is demonstrated by the story of Article 81 of the Constitution, which we have referred to several times also recently and which we should be careful to consider properly. The House's Budget Committee cannot be the sore point of our parliamentary activity of controlling the compatibility of public finances. It is a Commission, that of the budget of the House of Deputies, which has difficulty in adopting a law such as that on aid to the populations affected by the flood in Sardinia, leaving it aside for months without any examination and without bringing it to completion, while at the same time risking, for completely incomprehensible accelerations, to determine an impressive hole in the state coffers. We are concerned that such a way of legislate - as we have already said a thousand times, so I am voting in favour of this proposal - is first of all unacceptable from an institutional point of view. Parliament cannot and must never, in a democratic state, be subordinate to the Government. The legislative body is Parliament and not the Government. Parliamentary majorities should not be used to relegate Parliament to a notary condition of the government's legislative productions, because this is a reversal of the fundamental constitutional principles of the functioning of the democratic public system. Around this story also develops the punctual lack of control of the covers. We all know that. We say this now and we will say it better in the course of the general debate and during the explanation of vote on this measure. We all know that financial cover is in a critical condition for all the measures in this exercise. If we do not start to have a strict attitude in this respect, we determine expectations, we delude important social strata and many parts of the world of work that are waiting for a solution to their problems, which we then unravel through a technical report of the last beach that is provided to the Budget Commission and, in particular, to the Senate Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u359	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of CRIME quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law No. 1582 PRESIDENT. I put the question referred by Senator Crimi to the vote. It's not approved. PUGLIA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u360	Madam President, we have done some of the thinking before. We would have liked - and I say this to the Minister - to deal first and foremost with the reorganisation of the system of the national public apparatus. And we would have liked to have done so through a substantive debate, which also involved all the parliamentary committees which have some competence in this matter. But, above all, we would have liked to gather, as it were, the courageous anticipations that we have heard from the Minister. I am referring, for example, to the fact that there could have been a significant revision of the so-called Fornero law, in order to allow a significant rejuvenation of the public framework and also a better organisation of this framework because of the objectives that we must give to our bureaucracies. Instead, we are faced with a measure made of so many small commercials, some of which are now passing to history as disappointments. I would like to read some text messages that come mainly from the teachers, who were waiting to get the right consideration that, moreover, had been announced to them. We're not gonna be able to solve the country's problems like this. I tell the Minister that he is a little distracted right now: we will not be able to solve the problems of the country in this way. We will not be able to do so by abolishing this or that House, replacing it in its composition by elected parliamentarians in one way rather than another, but above all we will not be able to do so because we are faced with a situation of absolute heaviness about the ability of our institutions to understand the living conditions of citizens, workers and businesses. We would have liked to see a measure set out in a few clear objectives. I am thinking, for example, of how to speed up the administrative machinery, how to better respond to the service needs of citizens and businesses, how to support qualitatively and quantitatively the country's effort to get out of the crisis. These are the issues that need to be put at the root of public administration reform. Otherwise we collect the opinions of this or that, of the magistrates or university teachers, rather than of the state lawyers, of some consumer association or of some trade union organization. These opinions are collected and plastic operations are made that leave the inside of the sick body and that, giving an artificial appearance to the outside, make the sick appear a little healthier. We can't go on like this. We are - and you all know this - in a worse situation than Italy was when the Berlusconi Government gave way to the Monti Government. We have fewer GDP points, higher unemployment, stronger poverty indices and higher public debt. It is, therefore, a much heavier condition of difficulty. It is this difficult situation that we have to report on when we are doing reform projects and not on the need for communication. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u361	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called "Madia Decree-Law" is a generally positive measure and I shall vote in favour of it. It is not acceptable in all its passages, but the overall plant must be appreciated, just as I personally appreciate some changes made in the parliamentary examination. The first objective of the decree-law is to promote generational replacement in public administrations, repealing the institute of detention in service and widening the scope of the institute of unilateral termination of the contract by the public administration towards employees who have completed the pension requirements. These institutions are important, because they aim to break established positions of powers of public leaders who have occupied the post for too long, mortifying other people against whom the discipline so far in force had launched signs of mistrust and immobility. There are no public apparatuses in which only one person is indispensable and the others are incapable: if this were the case, the summit so far held in service would also be incapable. So let the replacement come and above all let's restart the turnover soon, so that they can resume the recruitments for competition in public administrations, who need fresh energy, new motivations, digital natives, who know the languages and have been abroad with Erasmus, for example. Derogations for magistrates are necessary, but are interpreted restrictively and do not open the trap to block renewal. There is also a very welcome ban on the provision of advice to pensioners in the administrations: the advisory system perpetuates power chains between those who were in charge of public structures and those who were designated as successors. This is a vicious circle that had to be cut off and the decree does so. Then there is the sliding of the rankings of various competitions already held, which I think is very important, because it revives certainties and hopes of those who had studied and who had loyally confronted themselves to find work with their own abilities. There are many other measures that convince me because they are aimed at removing rigidities in public administrations. The new rules on mobility in the public administration provide, in particular, for the transfer of employees within the same administration or, subject to agreement between the administrations concerned, in other administration, in premises located in the same municipality or at a maximum distance of 50 kilometres from the place where they are used, without the need for the consent of the worker concerned. Specific derogations are provided for employees with children under three years of age who are entitled to parental leave, and for employees who can benefit from paid work permits for the care of a relative or a disabled relative in a serious situation, who may be transferred from their work to another place only with their consent. Specific standards, then, are related to school staff. The introduction of the limit on the consent of the mother of children under three years of age has been debated in the newspapers and I believe that it has been a wise change by the House. Then there is the reduction of the mountain hours for union permits. It doesn't shock me, but let's hope no one thinks they're affecting union rights. If there are conservative tendencies in the unions of the public service, I believe that it is the same unions of the public service that have to deal with it soon and well. Then there is the part about corruption, which seems convincing. Of particular interest are two provisions in Article 19 aimed at strengthening the flow of information to the National Anti-corruption Authority. For example, it is expected that the so-called whistle-blowers, whose figure is protected in the so-called Severino law, will be able to make communications on anomalies, irregularities and illegal acts. It is also expected that state lawyers who become aware of this in the handling of the dispute, in the exercise of their function of representation and legal protection of the State administrations, will also be required to make reports of anomalies, irregularities and unlawful acts on public contracts. On this last point, the parliamentarians' stimulus to the House of Deputies found the government's favour and I was delighted. The DAC is invested with sanctioning powers and a special unit dedicated to Expo 2015. These are progress data. I come to the pension arrangements and I have a regret: the House of Deputies had done well to re-introduce the 96 quota. It also seems to me that the House's Budget Committee had expressed a favourable opinion. Yesterday's thrust of General Accounting seems excessive to me and, however, it re-proposes the overall theme of budgetary policies in our country. I refer, in this regard, to today's article on "Corriere della sera" by Stefano Fassina: net of interest, Italy has already cut a great deal in three years. We are talking about billions of euros. Today the teachers, yesterday the exodus, tomorrow the health care. The cuts in public spending are not the right way and do not make us change direction. Let us now come to the parts that convince me less. One of these is municipal secretaries. Having increased from 10% to 30% the possibility of the recruitment of external directors of direct trust of mayors and councillors could prove to be a weakening of their function of guarantee much more than the other measure, which they have complained about, namely the reduction of the rights of secretariat. More thought was needed on this point. Another aspect that little convinces me is the white list in the anti-mafia certifications. The white lists are lists of good intentions, but the prefectures will never know if, the day after the inclusion in the white lists, the companies, then, despite them, will undergo attempts of mafia infiltration pursuant to Article 84 of the anti-mafia code. Let's hope it works, but I don't have any certainty. I therefore welcome the measure as a whole, but I hope that some adjustments will be made in the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u363	Madam President, I shall use these few minutes that I have asked to speak to remind you of the problem of quota 96 and to make an appeal to Minister Madia, so that, before the vote of confidence is reached, he can have the opportunity to extract a rabbit from the cylinder. Minister Madia, I am referring to you: I was talking to you. I was begging you, if it were possible, before voting yet another confidence on this measure, to get out of the cylinder the rabbit that is in the situation of teachers quota 96. I've been at their meeting last year and I've been following them all this year. By the way, one of your party colleagues has also taken this matter to heart. From today they are victims of yet another mockery. It is no longer 4,000, because already last year they complained that, in the fury of waiting, they would retire naturally. But we're talking about people who have already been fooled by Fornero who -- toh! - had the oversight not to remember that teachers do not retire on 31 December. Do we want to keep making fun of them with false promises? These are people like all of us, who have everyday life, affections and expectations and who do not deserve this treatment. And above all, what should we say about a government that behaves this way? Already in the election campaign, the 80 euros had been promised and the President of the Council promised that the audience would be extended. Of course, because in the election campaign, we all know, words fly, fly in freedom! But now, those words, it is catching them up with the net, because first it says that the audience of the beneficiaries of the EUR 80 will not be expanded, now the quota-96 arrives, then the disabled victims of massacres or terrorist acts. However, we maintain measures in favour of categories that do not need to be protected. Aren't you looking at me, Minister Madia? Maybe because he agrees with me and he knows I'm saying right and true things! If you really want to be a reliable government, if you really want to bring with honor that 40% of votes that the Italians have given you, don't disappoint them, do things well. And so, also for the turnover in universities, because it too is fucked up. You have kept exactly the same percentages, but you have even narrowed the audience of beneficiaries by making the calculation criteria for retirement and turnover more stringent. His colleague Boschi - we will never stop repeating this - quoted Fanfani and said that in politics lies do not pay. Here, the bill will come to you too! I repeat: the counter will come to you too! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u364	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u365	Madam President, given the few minutes at my disposal, I will focus mainly on two rules, namely the one on compulsory mobility and the one on unemployment, which, if I am not mistaken, until recently were even publicly denied by Minister Madia and which I fear will once again have repercussions on workers. For compulsory mobility, the same production unit shall be considered to be any public office located at a distance not exceeding 50 kilometres from the place where the worker is required to transfer and used. I emphasize: 50 kilometers. In that case, the worker will not be able to oppose the transfer - and there would be no mistake! - because within that distance it will be as if there were no other public office: it will therefore be a single public office, whether it is a ministry, a hospital or a public body. I'm saying this in a joke, but I think, in fact, I'm sure it's not a joke: I'm afraid we might find ourselves a driver at work in a hospital room! I think we should think about this. As regards the questioning, which is still in derogation from Article 2103 of the Civil Code, it is expected that the public worker who is made available because he is considered redundant and not relocated to another office, in the months preceding the end of mobility in time to avoid dismissal, may request to be relocated to a lower or lower economic position or even to a lower position, so - it is explained - to extend the opportunities for relocation. I don't know if we know what we're doing to these workers. A worker in order to be relocated must give up any right: he must put his dignity under heels and pretend nothing and perhaps he will be allowed to be relocated. Because that's what we're talking about. In short, for the series: the world of work is reduced to commodity. In this House, I always hear about the labour market. The problem is that, when it comes to market without rules, I have been taught that negative and not positive things always prevail. The Government and this majority persist in continuing to disarm the workers, not guaranteeing them democracy and dignity. What I always notice is that, instead of scraping, the powerful are always armed: the workers, left alone for years now, will have no chance of defending themselves because the weapons of the powerful increase more and more. That's what we're talking about. But, as always, he pretends nothing. When we talk about the dignity, rights, democracy and freedoms of others, attention is always less than that with which we are talking about other interests in this House. Someone's gonna have to explain why one day, but maybe I figured it out. I sincerely and truly say these things: to deal with the crisis by gradually taking away spaces of democracy is very dangerous. I say this especially to the President, because I know his story and I am convinced that you will agree with me, even if you will not be able to say it publicly. However, I really urge you to reflect, because the crisis we are going through does not solve itself in this way. I do not like to talk about these things, because when I am on the table serious arguments must be focused on these, but this had to be the Government of the scraper, but once again - I have to say this - I see the dignity and democracy of the workers and the normal people being destroyed, while the breaking up never affects the strong corporate powers and this worries me seriously, because I do not think that we go anywhere, doing so. I'll say one more thing, and then I'll finish. I have heard of the Fornero reform on several occasions in the working committee. Everyone says they were almost forced to support it, even if they didn't share it, because there was a technical government. Now there's a chance that you don't have that excuse, "altitude 96" is the emblem of all this. Do we want to talk about it seriously and deal with it once and for all, or do we always want to hide behind someone else? I repeat: I believe that this is not only the wrong way, but that it is also very dangerous. If we want to talk about real facts, we have all the tools to do it, but we must do it together and not postpone it to others. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u366	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u367	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a very important measure. A government that has the ambition to change Italy - I will come back to it in the end - cannot and could not fail to act first and foremost on public administration, too often stepmother and not mother with respect not only to the normal citizen and his interests, but above all to companies. In my brief speech, I will focus on the aspects covered by the 8th Commission and therefore on the issues already mentioned by the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, concerning public works. There is also a part about the digital agenda, but it is above all about the events related to procurement regulations that I would like to dwell on, making an immediate and even slightly bitter premise. It is not the first time since 2006 (i.e. since the Procurement Code has been in force) that other measures have a strong impact on this Code. It has always been in the 8th Commission, we who in this Senate (I first in the House) deal in particular with public works, instead we ask for an organic way of reforming the code. The government said it wants to do it. It has announced for September an overall intervention that revises the code through a draft delegation law followed by two legislative decrees: the first to transpose the EU directives on the matter and the second to rewrite the code itself. It is important that this happens, otherwise we will continue to move forward through spot interventions that stratify changes, sometimes changes in changes, making it very uncertain for operators, for procurement stations and for public administration. I note that in the decree-law under consideration 21 articles mainly concern this matter, but the challenge that once again the Government says it wants to grasp through the bill delegation of reform of the procurement system is expected by the sector and also by us that we deal with it here in the Senate. It must be done: I and my colleagues will of course make our contribution. Coming to the merit of the decree-law, the central aspect of the provision is certainly Article 19, with the abolition of the Supervisory Authority and the transfer of powers to the National Anti-corruption Authority (ANAC): an important choice that I judge in a very favorable and positive way. Until now, vigilance had no power of intervention and prohibition; too many times it has proved to be a veritable empty shell, however expensive, and not really capable of affecting the distortions and pathologies of the procurement system. The DAC will have tools to do so and this same measure gives it a series of instruments, through the aforementioned article 19, but also the subsequent 30, 33, 34 and 37, that confer it important functions in the matter of Expo, of investigated companies that are awarded contracts and also of variants that will be subject to the control of the Authority. The rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, referred to in his report, was very positive. It is an article that tries to discourage appeals and to reduce disputes, another serious problem of the procurement system and in general of the system of realization of public works in the country. There is now no contract that is not challenged by the administrative courts. Article 40 tries to reduce disputes and, in any case, to reduce the timing of judgments. At the same time, however, I cannot fail to pick up - I say this to the Minister, whose competence is known to me - some of the problems of Article 39, which, on the other hand, by providing for certain situations of essential irregularities in the replacement declarations to be remedied by means of financial penalties, does not clearly clarify what these essential situations are, of course, leaving great discretion to the contracting stations and, therefore, inevitably the issue of contending for lawyers. This opportunity has not been taken, and it is a pity, to require the contracting stations to make available to the online companies all the documentation related to the contest. If we did - and I hope we do so in the next few measures - then there would be obvious savings and transparency. I would now like to put three quick questions to the conclusion. Article 22 is interesting, as it rationalises, makes more efficient and saves on the independent authorities, including the regulation of transport. I particularly appreciate the article in which it is expected that members of one Authority will not be able to move on to another after five years. This I think is very positive, because in Italy careers were already being created: one went from one Authority to another, as if this had become a job. Blocking this cycle, in my view vicious, is a good and fair thing. As for Articles 13 and 13-bis, the Government initially abolished the so-called office design incentive. There has been a surge of shields and in article 13- bis this aspect has been very cushioned, basically going back to the past, while here I do not believe that the real point of balance has yet been found between the requirements of the technical offices and those of the free professionals, especially young, who with much other contribution in terms of quality can affect the design of public works. I should like to conclude on Articles 23-a and 23-b, which allow me to take up an initial concept: the question of centralisation of contracts for which new deadlines are set. He had begun to talk about it the first time at the time of the Monti Government, but since then the mayors do not know how to move, because to every decree, of every kind, there are a term that moves, a forecast that changes and a dimension of the Municipals obliged to centralize, that still changes. A few days ago I was in my Basilicata, in Brienza, whose mayor told me precisely to operate in the constant uncertainty and transitory nature of the norms, without knowing how to move. That is why, as I said at the outset, an organic and as stable as possible reform of the procurement code is well and right away, giving certainty to all operators in the sector. Of course this is an ambitious objective, but it is for a government and a prime minister who have made ambition their own. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u368	Madam President, this decree-law raises considerable concerns about both the method of use and the content. On the method I do not repeat what has been said during the examination of the vices of legitimacy because it is evident that - systematically - laws are made only and exclusively decrees-laws. On the one hand, this finds a partial justification in the fact that the Renzi Government was formed substantially for the criticism that the secretary of the PD had moved to the previous President of the Council, saying that it would have to change step. There had to be a major change in the economic environment and economic development, because the fundamental data of the Italian economy were not positive by opening two fronts, one internal and one external, especially towards Europe, which - it was said - should not have continued the policy of rigour, which had not solved the problems of the deep crisis of the Italian economy and had begun to increase unemployment, public debt and current expenditure, but not employment in particular youth. He made incredible promises at first, when he said that he would have to reform a month or rather a fundamental reform every month. Perhaps he meant a standard reform of the decree-laws which he systematically proposes to this Parliament, such as the one we are discussing, the limit of which, at least according to the rapporteur Pagliari, is to be a so-called'mill-huge', practically a tampon measure which, pending a reform following Parliament's delegation to the Government on public administration, tries to overcome the situation. However, it does not seem to me that this was the inspirational principle of Prime Minister Renzi who, on the contrary, had to change in substance: in the end perhaps above all from a media point of view because in this he is very good and it has to be recognized - he thought of fixing the problem of public debt and the overall one with the famous sale of blue cars. What happened to that sale? I hope at least that it has allowed him to collect enough to pay for the sales notices published in the main Italian newspapers because probably with this system he thought to re-launch the publishing: he launches the appeals, which will suddenly end up in thin air and of which we no longer have feedback. Then he thought - in my opinion, not rightly - of covering everything with a smoke that obscured the real problems of our country with constitutional reforms. I believe that it has made a great contribution to this, the willingness of the party in which I am fighting, which, despite some of our differences in the substance of the matter, felt that constitutional reforms were justifiable and necessary. Don't expect to preserve after this first phase: initially the responsibilities were of the previous governments and then, in the case of the reforms, misplaced accusations are launched to the present senators, saying that they simply opposed to defend their compensation; a statement in my opinion obscene. The Renzi government is ending the famous honeymoon because, since the next fall recovery, the real knots will come to the comb: the official data will remind him that overall tends to increase the public debt, increases current expenditure and GDP does not increase. And the general dissatisfaction already begins to manifest because those financial circles and those professional associations that had supported it (for example, Confindustria) begin to address him asking him to realize the promises made. Just as Mrs Chiavaroli, in her speech, said that it is not necessary to generate easy expectations; the first used was taken with this decree-law. After so much of an attempt to solve the problems created by Fornero, we find that we are currently trying to cover expenses with the deficit. When I was a city councilman, an opposition councilman said that in order to solve the problem, as the deficit increased, the deficit had to be spent. That is what this Government is currently doing in the sense that, after saying that it would recover a lot of resources with the spending review, it has been told, by Commissioner Cottarelli that the road taken is not the best one because you cannot spend as much as you probably save. It was initially said that the Senate Commission was wrong about the matter, but the truth is that it is not possible to continue spending resources that you do not have. If you want to make structural reforms, you start putting your face to it because the smoke that you have launched in the meantime is practically over. The honeymoon is over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u369	Madam President, I will speak on a specific point in the decree, namely Article 50 on the trial office, which, together with the next ones, deals with measures to improve the efficiency of judicial offices. I just want to make a couple of notations: the first is a positive assessment of the fact that these few articles, inserted in such a demanding decree, represent a first trace and a first taste of what could be that reform of the justice machine announced by Minister Orlando within a more general reform of the justice of our country. Compared to what was foreshadowed in the general lines of justice reform, which the Minister has already wanted to share and make public, I would like to make a notation regarding the office for the trial and the components of this new structure, which will certainly have a positive role in supporting the faster working of the justice machine. A first point concerns the use of the honorary judiciary within these offices. It is certainly positive that, together with the magistrates and young trainees (i.e. those new graduates who have a good curriculum and obtained an excellent degree score can carry out an apprenticeship and internship within the office for the trial), there are also for the precise of the honorary magistrates and in particular the honorary judges of the court. This element, however, will have to be better framed when it arrives, as I believe it will have to happen and as anticipated by the Minister, to a comprehensive reform of the honorary judiciary that will clarify the role of these figures: the role of the honorary judges in court as well as of the honorary deputy prosecutors and their relationship with the judge of peace. Minister Orlando has already defined measures of rationalization and unification within a unique role of these figures: it will be necessary to harmonize that path with what already provided for in this decree and with a need to valorize the figures of honorary magistrates who, beyond the important role they play in supporting the overall work of the judicial machine, now represent well-established skills and professionalism, which our order needs. But there is another important and positive point that I would like to stress in conclusion, Madam President: an amendment introduced by the Chamber of Deputies to the decree, to paragraph 1-a of Article 50, which concerns the precarious of justice, those training trainees on which the Senate has repeatedly expressed itself both with an agenda in August last year, on the occasion of the approval of the "decree of doing," and intervening with changes then accepted within the maxi amendment of the Government in the law of stability. Paragraph 1- bis of article 50 says that by decree of the Minister of Justice to be adopted in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance are determined, within the limits of the financial resources available to current legislation, the number as well as the criteria for the identification of the subjects who have completed the training internship referred to in article 37, paragraph 11 of decree-law No 98 of 2011, that can be part of the office for the trial, taking into account the assessments of merit and the organizational requirements of the judicial offices. In this paragraph we address for the first time, giving an organic perspective, a theme on which we have dealt several times here: there is the need for the professionalism of so many training trainees who in recent years have helped to maintain a machine that made water from all sides and that, now in several years of internship and then of refinement, have supported offices perennially under staff, can find a more solid and stable outlet within these offices: this not only, allow me, in compliance with the work of more than 3,000 workers who in these years have carried out this important operation, but starting from the necessity that today we cannot afford the luxury to subtract from our judicial offices of competences also of base, that have represented in these years an important support to the functioning of the machine of justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u370	Madam President, the decree that we are examining speaks of so many things, so many that it is truly chaos to be able to follow all the issues discussed. In fact, for the umpteenth time, we are faced with an unconstitutional decree-law; we have already said so; you say no by voting against unconstitutionality. You don't even know what you're doing, and that proves your intellectual level. Having said that, however, there are several interesting aspects. I will focus on the part that concerns public works, the most congenial part. For example, we have decided to dissolve the Authority for the oversight of public contracts and to assign all functions to the Anti-corruption Authority. Having said that, it seems useful, since corruption in the field of public works is known, but public works are not only made of this: they are also made of execution methods, there are so many details that must be considered. On the other hand, you know and we all know that the code of public contracts issued by Legislative Decree No. 163 of 12 April 2006 consists of 250 articles and the regulation consists of 400 articles. A public work, therefore, is not only a problem of corruption, but it includes many elements. And if we dissolve the supervisory authority and put it in the anti-corruption authority, we do what is medialy effective, but I don't know if it's logical. Not that it is wrong to do so but it is wrong to think of taking the Supervisory Authority and putting it in the Anti-Corruption Authority which by the end of the year has to draw up a plan because we would have a vacatio, for at least six months, of the role. At a critical moment like this, when we have all read in the newspapers what happens, is it right to do this? It's a question I ask myself and you. Then we are also talking about something else, for example Article 37 of the decree, which deals with the subject of variants, another important issue, even if - as I have already told you in this House - the real problem is no longer concentrated on variants but on reserves, because that is where we should check well what is being done, because it is on the play of reserves that there are so many bribes. Variants have gone a little bit out of fashion, but I realize that you don't know what's going on because you've never done a public work and so I'll explain it to you. [[Comments of Senators Russo and Ghedini]] Determining to send all variants to the Anti-corruption Authority when the amount increases by 10% (we talk about variants above the Community threshold) is fine, but in the following paragraph it is stipulated that the variants are also sent under threshold. As written in the paragraph, all variants, even those of very small amounts, must be sent to the observatory. And when we send all these variants to the observatory, are we sure that the observatory is able to verify everything or do we end up flooding a system? There are those responsible for the proceedings. I fear that jams will be created that always scare me: or we do not know to the full what we do or do it voluntarily, because the jams make it easier to unleash without knowing where they end up, not to mention the Authority: we have partially restored what happens in the Authorities and said that for five years the members of the Authorities cannot be renamed: good. So why have we reduced for four years, as envisaged in the original drafting of the text, to two the deadline within which the people who deal with the Authority cannot interact with those who are subject to regulation? We have reduced these times: are we sure that we have done something right? And speaking of authority, how do we name its members? Always the same, with political choices? We had tabled an amendment even though the amendments are of no use because you may not even read them and you may not be able to understand them and we had made a simple proposal. Shall we appoint the members of the Authority? Well, in Europe, the Data Protection Authority is made up of personnel selected by competition: this is the case in Europe, which you always talk about. Then why don't we do it in Italy? Why don't we start choosing the members of the Authority for competition? Another important issue is also mentioned: Article 40 of the Decree-Law deals with administrative law and the obligation to pay an economic security for the suspensive ones is included. Do you know who often does administrative actions against public works? They are the environmental associations and, unfortunately for the citizens who are out of here, sometimes this is the only way to stop a politically wrong work and a wrong political choice. The only way environmental associations have is to resort to the TAR, because often you can stop wrong works when politics is wrong. In this way you put a brake on the control of the citizen. I don't know if these things are right; they seem to me genuinely crazy and therefore I can't understand what your mission is, what your strategy is and what your overall vision is. We'll talk, as Senator Margiotta said, about the reform of the procurement code. All right, we'll talk about this reform. Let's see what you want to do and how you want to reform it. But we have to do things and we have to do them right. It's not all about the phase of change. We have to do the works and we have to finish them, but the right works, those that are needed and not those that the President of the Council speaks of, when even Cottarelli says, when we have to make the famous plan "unblock Italy," that... president. Senator Cioffi, I invite you to conclude. CIOFFI (M5S). I'll finish. Cottarelli himself reminded us that we want to do new public works by taking money from the spending review, when the money is not there. Then we have to choose which works are useful for the country. Perhaps all the strategic works should be reviewed in order to understand what are really useful and, only after doing this verification, to choose the ones that really serve the citizens and not the ones that you think are right. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u371	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u372	Madam President, unfortunately, in my no longer short political career, a phrase that an official told me at the beginning of my political commitment, when I was a city councilman, which played more or less as follows: You see, councilman: politicians pass, we technicians stay. That phrase struck me a lot and I gradually understood, in my political experience, that it had not little foundation. Indeed, it is right, reasonable, opportune and obvious that politicians change, at least because they are replaced by electoral competition. It is less reasonable to think that today in Italy there is a clear layering of protection, which sometimes benefits public maladministration, guilty of a weak policy that has tolerated these excessive safeguards when unfortunately it has not determined them. It must be understood of course: most of the managers, officials and public operators are dedicated, disinterested, passionate, loyal and correct, but what for too long is indisputable and that finally this decree tries to put a firm hand in it, is that we must break that interweaving, that mutual tolerance between a complacent or incapable policy and a public administration in which we obviously put the judiciary, which unfortunately sometimes produces itself or perpetuates itself. Today politics is at least trying to start again to have the credibility that allows others to ask, starting with the public administration, to make those sacrifices or rather to do to the full what is required of us. The reform of the Senate that we are voting on is certainly emblematic of the will to take up a strong responsibility for politics, but at the same time to demand it from those who together with politics are called to pursue the public interest. A small-large element of this change in the decree-law that we are discussing is, although it is a long and complex "mill huge" decree, as someone, beginning with our rapporteur, has rightly defined it, especially the almost total lack - and on this I would ask you to reflect and perhaps even discuss - of references to the implementing decrees. I would ask you to reflect on this and perhaps also to discuss it. It's a little big revolution. Certainly it is not a revolution that goes in the sense of legislative simplification because the text is particularly complex and, in some respects, needs many references. Hence, from this point of view it is certainly not easy to read and understand overall. But what is certain is that there is a will on the part of the Government and Parliament, whether it wants to convert this decree-law or change it - but I believe that unfortunately this will not be possible - to ensure that these rules are immediately applicable and immediately implemented. That it is not simply a question of declamations but undoubtedly of interventions of great effectiveness, except then being denied, unfortunately, many titles say so. I remember only a few of them and I conclude: in the meantime, from the start we decided: just hold in service and not to consult, a practice perhaps all Italian, stratified over time, that allowed many people of the public administration to be able to count on an extension after the pension and - why not - also on a cumulation between the pension income and that deriving from the advice. Another great novelty, certainly not greeted enthusiastically by civil servants but certainly important and inevitable - I believe that Mr Ichino will speak on this - is the issue of mobility. It begins in a very simple way: the administrations. First of all, the administrations with the tiny "a" is already a great revolution. It is not said: the state, the peripheral regions, the regions, the institutions. It is said that all administrations are finally called to work together so that the principle of mobility, a principle sacrosanct in the interests of the full use of the human resources of the public administration, can finally be applied. In all administrations, this mobility is possible in all sectors, albeit with important safeguards. Someone complained about the 50 kilometers. It can be few or many, it seems to me to be a reasonable distance. Important safeguards for mothers, for example, have been included in Parliament's work. What I want to stress is that finally Italy - good last believe in Europe - not only states (because it has already stated it in many laws before these) but will finally be able to apply that mobility, often invoked and never practiced in the facts. Think again of the possibility to activate this mobility, even if it is willing to take a position, both from the point of view of the classification and the tasks and from the economic point of view, of the lower level. This is sometimes an inevitable and painful necessity for those who consider themselves not to be valued or for those who think it is more appropriate to take a step back, which, moreover, allows us to return to the new position so that the worker can find a suitable opportunity in a new place. Finally, I would like to mention the important indication that it will be necessary for magistrates of all kinds to take note of the need to leave the role, and therefore to go out of the role if they wish to take extrajudicial positions. This is also a small big revolution. I do not want to mention anyone, nor any government, but of course it is only with this Government for many years that there is no overlap of roles held by important magistrates who at the same time maintain remuneration and role within the judiciary and combined - it is just time - that role with the office also important as head of cabinet and maybe also as a member of the Government. Well, it seems to me that the honeymoon that some colleagues wished for or hoped for (because we are still on our honeymoon) will end sooner or later, I believe it is confirmed by this decree that - to remain in the metaphor of honey - a little honey definitely removed. But - let us understand - no punitive intervention: simply a first strong signal for a new collective responsibility where public administration comes back into play together with a more courageous policy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u373	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u374	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen: a thousand rules. The expression used by the rapporteur is hardly incontestable. The rapporteur said that this measure could lose the sense of the general plan of the reform pursued; and even more so, he fears the risk of a conditioning of ministerial bureaucracies in the opposite sense to the intentions of the Government, the legislator itself. Unfortunately, that is the case. This bill does not escape the habit and the wrong model that has imposed itself in our country as regards the way of lawmaking. The omnibus law, which gradually attaches itself to new provisions, increasingly numerous "vagoncini" - according to the railway metaphor - to solve individual problems is the emblem of a lawmaking not for general principles and with the understanding of producing general and abstract norms but to solve one by one the individual problems. Each standard, each vial, each new provision shall be included in the text in relation to a specific case. I understand that in the emergency it is very difficult to avoid this way of proceeding, but we absolutely must make an effort all together, because here it is not the fault of one or the other but it is an entire system that must have the ability, the strength, the clear ideas to change. And change also starting from the "literary genre" of the laws that are produced in these classrooms. It is from this way of law-making that the unpleasant, uncommendable and institutional issue of Article 1-a was born. But for an article 1-a deleted in this provision, except to be the subject of more meditated and appropriate placement, there is also an article 1-b, compared to which it is difficult to understand how and why it could be placed in this decree-law: what are the pensions of journalists to do in a decree-law on public administration? [[Applause from Senators Morra and Fucksia.]] It is also necessary to take a step back from these considerations for self-critic evaluation. Once again, it's a self-criticism that we all have to do. I am referring to that stereotype, characteristic of our country, so if things don't work, it is necessary to produce a new rule of law to make it work. If we look closely, this stereotype has a profound meaning of self-absolution on the part of those responsible for the government, the administration of the country. In fact, to say that things do not work because the rules are wrong is to say that it is not our fault, it is not a lack of ability to implement the existing rules. Instead, in most cases, the reverse is true. Things don't work because we don't know how to implement the existing rules. We do not know or do not want; we are self-fulfilling and issuing standards. These determine how individual executives should behave. In this way we deny the very essence of the manager's function, which is to find him the solution to ensure the achievement of the result. The more we regulate the business of the manager, the more we deduce responsibility. Instead, the current law already allows the manager to be held accountable. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Minister, Article 21 of the single text on public employment is in force, which says that the manager can be removed from his managerial post for failure to achieve the objectives that have been set and agreed with him at the time of the assignment. How many cases are there of removal of an executive for failure to achieve the objectives, since that rule is in force, i.e. since 2001? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I do not even know one, yet this is the key to reforming the administration: to set precise, specific, measurable and likely to be hooked to precise time limits and, then, strictly and rigorously check that the manager achieves the goal for which he had and accepted the assignment. Of course, this means exposing the manager to an objective responsibility, because sometimes the results are not reached without fault of the manager. But the manager earns ten times over his subordinates [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] He earns more precisely because he runs that risk, precisely because he knows he can take that risk professionally. This way of organizing the administration, the current law already allows it. But that's not what we do. The objectives are not precise, specific, measurable and can be linked to precise deadlines: what our British colleagues call the SMART objectives (i.e. Specific, Measureable, Repetable, Achievable, Timely). From us this way of governing the administrations did not run, has no citizenship. Instead, this is the reform of the administration. Then, total transparency to allow citizenship to also monitor the achievement of the objective; because civic auditing is more important than the Court of Auditors. There is no Court of Auditors that can make that timely, comprehensive and real-time check on the work of the administrator, the public manager, on the achievement of the objectives, as a citizen with the tools can do, who can exercise control by benefiting from total transparency. We do not need new rules on this area either: we can improve them, and implementation can recommend individual legislative changes, but these things can also be done immediately, without the need for new rules. But they still don't. This brings us to the most important practical issue of this measure: mobility. Mr Minister, you know, because I spoke to you immediately after you took office, that we have a rule - Article 33 of the single text of 2001 - which provides for the obligation for each of the leaders of the public administration to take over any surplus of staff; and God knows that we do not have at least half of our administrations where surplus staff occur. This rule of 2001 has been repeated repeatedly, with the imposition of increasingly severe sanctions: in 2009 with the so-called Brunetta law and then, again, in 2011. Madam Minister, can I just mention one case of a government executive who has detected a surplus of staff? I don't know just one; or rather there is one, but it's an abnormal case and we can't count it among the physiological cases. Here, this is the rule of the state; and it can work. Do we believe that the manager is not the most suitable figure to detect the surplus of staff? Maybe. But then let some other administration body do it. But if we don't start there, we'll never make any progress. It is important, of course, as Article 4 of this decree does, to activate also the administration of destination, in order to attract to itself the excess staff in the administration where instead there is the surplus of staff; but if we do not start from the survey and mapping of surpluses, it is clear that no one will move. Or rather, only those who decide for their interest to move will move; But this is not mobility in the interest of the administration. It must be clear that 99 percent of useful mobility is not even 10 kilometers away, it is mobility in the same municipal area, sometimes in the same isolated area; but today neither is that practiced. We think how useful it would be to transfer the excess staff of the old employment offices to the labour inspectorates! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ICHINO (SPI). I'll finish right away. Let's think about the discoveries that we have in the offices of the land registry, in the local police, in all the offices where due to lack of staff they delay the fulfillments: this is all mobility that could be activated immediately. Article 4 is okay, but no article 4, as already no article 33 of the single text of 2001, will be able to fill the initiative and the management capacity that must characterize good administration and in particular its managers. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u375	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u376	For what, Senator Crimes? CRIMI (M5S). On a point of order, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, the advance that I have already read that there are the opinions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on this matter (I have also read the notes) and therefore the standard answer is in advance. Pursuant to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, it is possible, when draft laws or business are in question which import economic, financial and social policy guidelines or in any case economic and labour-related issues, that any senator may propose that the opinion of the National Economic and Labour Council, which has not been repealed so far, be requested before the end of the general discussion. It occurred to me because, just now, when I arrived at the office, I found a little gift from CNEL (I believe all the senators will receive it, because they are probably crediting themselves somehow not to get abolished): it is a USB flash drive (among other things also cute, in the form of a credit card), with inside their annual report. Well, in the context of this measure of labour and social norms, when we talk about issues related to exodus, school or cover, there are not one, but a bizzeffe; therefore, considering the interventions just made, by my colleague Montevecchi, Senator Ichino, Senator Bernini and Senator Uras, who raised questions that, from time to time, have added to those already raised in the Commission and in the Chamber in the context of the questions referred to, I believe it is necessary to propose to the Assembly to consider the content of this draft law of conversion to the opinion of the CNEL.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u377	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u378	In the meantime, let us make a check, because the request had to be made before the general debate began. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] This is what is written. You know the rules apply to everyone and forever. [[Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]] Thanks for the applause. CRIMI (M5S). It is up to you to assess the proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've recorded it, Senator Crimes, don't worry. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u379	Madam President, Minister Madia, ladies and gentlemen, this decree, better known as the reform of public administration or a millennial one, as the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, called it, is being examined in this House after a very rapid transition to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today. Renzi is in a hurry, but as always the haste is bad counselor. It is clear to everyone that trust is now taken for granted. It had already been placed at first reading in the House to speed up the times, it will also happen in the Senate on a modified text for the four suppressive amendments tabled by the Government, which go to remedy the mess created for the lack of cover, but which leave unresolved the serious problems. Fortunately, for a while there is the equal bicameralism that allows us to put a piece in it, otherwise it was all to be redone, dear Premier Renzi. Your government had compared the measure to the first leg on which the most comprehensive plan of reorganization of the public administration is based that will then have to be fulfilled in the law delegation. Let's say, according to what we've seen so far, we're still far from that Copernican revolution that's so buzzed into a pump. What happened with the decree does not prelude to anything good in order also to the law delegation that should bring to completion the entire plan of reform wanted to make the public administration more efficient. The examination of this decree is marked by politically relevant data, and I do not mean of course and only the umpteenth confidence in a decree-law. With this we are at the 18th and before the holidays two more will be added, reaching a total of 20 in 160 days of government. The average is a trust every eight calendar days, including Saturdays and holidays. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the other hand, the statements made a few days ago by Cottarelli are significant. The government had treated the reform as something absolutely innovative, but the Commissioner's statements at the spending review all ice-creamed. Mr Cottarelli said that the vast majority of the reforms made by the Commission and the majority, including this decree, are financed by announced cuts in expenditure, so still far from being prosecuted, which therefore go to cover other expenses and not to reduce taxes, as a responsible government should have done. In money, the axiom of Cottarelli is that the Renzi Government is creating an increase in public spending. Therefore, after the remarks of the General Accounting Office of the State on the lack of coverage of four measures, it was necessary today to run to the red shelters of shame. The first deleterious amendment is the one that causes the most debate and it is the no to the so-called "96 quota" that would unlock 4,000 pensions in the school. It is a measure that has had to be removed. It is unacceptable that failure to cover was detected by the Accounting Office after the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. That of quota 96 seems today an unbearable measure and is, for us of the North League, the proof that there is no more money. Thus, the Senate is called upon to do the dirty work and approve the abolition of an extremely important measure. But do you not think that the President of the Budget Committee in the House should have avoided putting it to the vote? And yet the Northern League in the House from the beginning had argued that the intended cover was faggot, while Boccia, the President of the House's Budget Committee, wanted to force the measure, remedying a clamorous flop on the skin of 4,000 employees of the school. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The consequence is that 4,000 teachers were screwed for the second time, first by Fornero and today by Renzi, who also made fun of them for five days and this evening still deludes them by promising them a wider intervention, but it will be yet another promise. They had to retire, but while the government finds the money for tens of thousands of so-called refugees (38 euros per day) and for criminals in prisons (8 euros per day), it does not find the money for these teachers who - I stress - are only a small part of the world of exodus who have been waiting for answers from the government for two and a half years. This is another promise that has not been fulfilled, after the extension of the 80 euro bonus to pensioners and low-income self-employed workers. By the way, Renzi said nothing about the extension of the audience to the families numerous single income, a question on which the New Right Center had to digest bitter bites. What will happen to these single-income families? On the teachers, in our opinion, the government must immediately find alternative cover to remedy this mess, otherwise our thesis, that of the League, is confirmed, that on the reform Fornero in the majority lacks the political will to solve the serious problem generated. The second deleterious amendment leaves unchanged the age limits for the retirement of university and primary professors: no longer retired at 68, but remains the previous exit at 70 years. For the Accounting Office, the advance exit of two years still leads to unquantified charges. Renzi, by eliminating the new retirement limit for university professors, has in fact guaranteed the chair for life and its pharaonic salaries to the university barons, confirming his Executive as that of the baronates, the bitter enemy of the generational turnover. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes.]] With today's third deleterious amendment, the rule that provided for the cancellation of Fornero penalties for early exits from work for those who have already worked 42 years, but are not yet 66 years of age, is always due to problems of coverage. So if today a person is 62 or 63 years old but 42 years old, he must work up to 66 years old, otherwise he will still be penalized on his pension. It's shameful. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The fourth deleterious amendment, the last of the four amendments adopted by the Government today in the Commission, is the one that eliminates some of the benefits that the decree-law had introduced in favour of those who have suffered a permanent disability as a result of acts of terrorism. The planned expenditure was only one million euros; not one billion, but only one million euros. Before concluding, I would like to address two other issues, the first of which is the two-week shift (to 12 October) for the election of the councils and presidents of the Provinces; a mess, dear colleague Lepri, wanted by politics and not by technicians, by the policy of the Renzi Government. Finally, I come to the chambers of commerce. We have not understood why the government intends to strike the chambers of commerce, going to reduce the amount of the annual right. We know very well that the chamber revenue is not supplemented by any transfer from the State; in Montecitorio an amendment was introduced for a reduction in the scale of the law in three years, but that is not enough. While aware of the need to reform the chamber system, because not all rooms work, they are in financial balance and give efficient and effective responses to the needs of businesses and the territory, although as North League we consider it absolutely wrong to reduce the expenses of the rooms with linear and generalized cuts. The chambers of commerce, at least those...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u380	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u381	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). But I have 12 minutes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already at 12 minutes. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). No, I've been talking for nine and a half minutes. I've got a stopwatch in front of me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So do we, automatically. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). No, I'm sorry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come check it out, if you want, but you can finish the sentence. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). The chambers of commerce, at least those in the North - which are already undertaking mergers, as in Sondrio and Lecco - have a very important function and perform their work well. I remember that a few days ago Prime Minister Renzi went to inaugurate the Brebemi motorway, commending also its construction times, without the State having contributed with a euro of financing: Brebemi, in fact, is a highway that is born and developed precisely on the impulse of the local chambers of commerce. There is a study by the CGIA (Italian General Confederation of Crafts) of Mestre according to which the average savings that with this decree guaranteed to the enterprises from 2017 would be of 5,2 euros per month to enterprise, an inezia: was it worth it? This, however, compared with 400 or 500 million investments that will be less for the development and support of the local economy. In addition to this, there is also a risk of placing 2,500 jobs in an unstable situation and, according to the president. I invite you to conclude, Senator Arrigoni, we're 14 minutes away. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I have one minute left, Madam President: all right, I'll cut it and I'll come to the end. That of the chambers of commerce is another of the questionable measures with which since February we have become accustomed to living together: it is a new approach, the one introduced by Prime Minister Renzi, for which we intervene in things with tense leg, with speed and without evaluating well what the harmful consequences can be. Premier Renzi, with the bill delegates does not touch the register of companies: a wealth of economic-legal information considered unique in Europe and in the world, thanks to the chambers of commerce. Transferring the functions of keeping the register to the Ministry of Economic Development would be an unforgivable mistake. I should like to conclude by addressing the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari: Senator, what you have denounced is not an impotence of politics over this measure, but the inability, unpreparedness and arrogance of politics which, in our opinion, is the culmination of the Renzi Executive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u382	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u383	Madam President, what we are about to approve is yet another measure on which the Renzi Government probably wants to demand yet another confidence. We in the 5 Star Movement Group denounce how the action of this Executive is a continuous betrayal of the expectations of voters, which, frankly, is no longer tolerable for us. The decree-law under consideration is proof of this, making clear the inability to reform seriously and concretely. It is surprising, in fact, that the Government did not notice that the financial cover of the measure was all too imaginative, if not even inappropriate. The same mistake was made last year when the costs of justice were increased and only we of the 5 Star Movement complained, saying no to this way of making the majority. Renzi and the minister of the Padoan economy cannot stop, unable to admit their mistakes and to have failed. A few weeks ago, at a meeting with Commissioner Cottarelli, I asked him some specific questions about the report that will shortly have to be submitted on the cuts to participating companies and its spending review in general. Well, the commissioner for spending review admitted that he wanted Article 17 to be included in this decree-law, because the databases have become too many and cannot talk to each other. Too bad, however, that the article he prepared did not have the desired effect: in fact, something did not go to the Treasury Department. It didn't go because Cottarelli probably says too much that disturbs, upsets and perhaps even strikes the pride of officials and executive followers of this Premier. Article 17 shows that the Commissioner for the revision of public expenditure cannot work as he would like, because the cuts he proposes affect sectors that the majority party wants to keep intact. Let's ask ourselves why. Let's ask ourselves why the sector of participating companies is so protected: will it be inflicted by clientelism or by some old way of doing politics through favors and recommendations? I'm sorry to say, but Renzi is really the symbol of this clientele and unmerited Italy. And it does so with applause from parties that perhaps they have grown from the perspective that the chair is comfortable and warm and that leaving it is not convenient. However, I would like to say a few words about a victory by the M5S Group in the House. My colleagues have managed to get a substantial amendment approved, namely that the computer system for the acquisition of data and rationalization proposals for public or private bodies, controlled or participated, should use free software with open source code. For us of the 5 Star Movement this is a great victory, for the sake of transparency and publicity of the data concerning the participating companies. The time available prevents me from focusing on the other topics included in this omnibus decree-law, which also in this case manages to make a smoothie more or less sweet ideas and proposals. It goes from turnover in public administrations to independent authorities, from the telematic civil process to union permits in public administrations, and then it also deals with the abolition of the detached sections of regional administrative courts. I should like to say a few words on this last subject. When I read that it was planned to abolish the TAR of my city, several voices rose: from the council of the Order of Attorneys of Catania came the most lively protests, but certainly the most just. Far be it from me to make a bell tower, however, I can say that Renzi's idea of suppressing the detached sections of regional TARs, such as that of Catania, as well as being unhealthy is above all senseless. Insane is, in fact, abolishing the third regional administrative court in Italy, after those of Rome and Naples. Insensed is to suppress the TAR of the Ethnian capital which has a double workload compared to that boasted by the headquarters of Palermo. In particular, I recall that the Catania structure has about 55,000 pending appeals and an extensive basin of users as well as a substantial amount of population and geographical extension. We in the 5 Star Movement have made our voice heard insistently so that not only lawyers, not only magistrates, not only public administrations, but above all citizens who should use that courthouse to assert their claims. Fortunately, in the House, it was possible to save five of the detached sections that the Renzi Government wanted to close in order to rationalise public spending. I would like to conclude by saying to Prime Minister Renzi that spending review must be done with knowledge and intelligence and is the only way out of a very serious economic situation, for a society that in the last twenty years has done nothing but inflate the costs of managing public administration; costs that almost never correspond to the quality of services to end users, and therefore are useless to citizenship but useful only to the lobbies that majorities have always protected, because they constitute a large part of the electoral consensus. I would add, to conclude, that anyone would be able to govern as he is ruling, i.e. without giving a voice to those who do not feel the same way, asking for confidence to approve falsely urgent measures and, as usual, omnibus. We have come to the antechamber of an oligarchy composed of veteran politicians, each other appointed, also very prepared, but prepared as well as to protect their own interests, to protect those friends who will spend for them in the next election campaign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The important event will be in autumn, when the counts will sing and surely will be necessary giant screens to project the usual "sympathetic" slide with the red fishes! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u384	With regard to the work of the 5th Commission and with due regard for the circumstances, the general debate will continue at tomorrow's afternoon sitting, starting at 9.30 a.m. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, you have not spoken on my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was the continuation of the general discussion. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, this is a suspensive matter. It is a matter similar to that referred to in Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, there's no such thing as a suspensive. Senator Crimes, it is the faculty of the Presidency, appreciated the fact that it is a decree-law that must be approved in good time, to decide not to acquire the opinion of CNEL. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, give me the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, I thought I gave it to you. CRIMI (M5S). Its choice must be limited to the existence of elements which may suggest that the opinion is necessary or not. This cannot be an assessment of the fact that the measure under consideration is a decree-law. Times are a problem for the government and not the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I repeat that the Presidency's assessment is that there is no time to obtain the opinion of the CNEL.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u385	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u386	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u387	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out to the Presidency that this morning, in commemoration, the Presidency forgot to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the massacre of the Italicus train, one of the massacres that have been unpunished in the history of our Republic. Last Saturday I pointed out that the Bologna massacre received a fleeting commemoration and today, unfortunately, with this speech at the end of the session, I must point out to the Presidency that this morning it has forgotten to commemorate this other massacre. Another massacre, I repeat, as I did on Saturday, among the many who still remain unpunished and for which we citizens are still waiting for answers. We are not content to read books of scholars: we are waiting for answers from the institutions. I hope that tomorrow morning in this House the victims who have fallen into that massacre will be properly commemorated. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u388	For the second time, I will make this point which I consider, at least from the point of view of the current Presidency, to be particularly important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u389	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-299.ana.u390	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, August 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.21 a.m.
