ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.40 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:44 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u9	I communicate that on 16 December 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Ministers of Economics and Finance; agricultural, food and forestry policies; and education, university and research - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 185 of 16 December 2014 laying down urgent provisions concerning the extension of the IMU payment periods for mountain agricultural land and accounting measures for the end of the financial year (1709).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for today's sitting is the debate on the draft budget and stability laws. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u11	Mr President, I have already been able to formally ask President Grasso, but now I ask you and the House to postpone the debate on the draft budget and stability legislation, because the Commission is about to finish its work. I apologise to my fellow Members, but we have worked intensively, continuously, so we think that we can bring the measure to the House by morning. I had therefore asked for the debate to begin from 2 p.m. onwards when the Presidency considers it to be so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u12	In the light of what President Azzollini has said, in order to enable the 5th Commission to complete its work, we shall suspend the sitting of the Assembly. I say that the Conference of Leaders will meet at 12 noon and that the sitting will resume at 1 p.m. for communications on the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, without prejudice to President Azzollini's forecast of the resumption at 2 p.m. to take stock of the measures on the agenda. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.47 a.m. and resumed at 10.01 p.m.) The Conference of Leaders noted that the Budget Commission did not complete its work on the financial documents. The sitting will resume at 3 p.m. with the statement by President Azzollini on the Commission's work. It will follow the joint general discussion according to the quota of the times already defined. The deadline for tabling amendments is 4 p.m. In accordance with the above, by way of derogation from Rule 128 (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments which have not been discussed by the Budget Commission for temporal reasons may also be retabled. Finally, the Conference of Leaders took note of the failure of the Parliamentary Group. For Italy, pursuant to Rule 14 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.03 p.m. and resumed at 15.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u13	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1699 and 1698, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u14	Mr President, as you know, the Commission has not finished its work. However, it is very useful to represent the House that the Commission has done a great deal of its work and, from the point of view of the most important issues, virtually all the work it had before it. Of course, it still had to do its own work on many other amendments, which would not have allowed this time of the House to be convened, for which I had committed myself to President Grasso, whom I thank several times for having given me three referrals (and I am very grateful for that). However, I can assure you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this time has allowed very serious and very thorough work to be done on the issues I am about to address. The passage into the Senate Commission, if I may say so with a nice joke that I used this morning and that Deputy Minister Morando will allow me, in memory of a thirty-eight-year-old (nine financial statements made by Deputy Minister Morando and nineteen by me), was one of the most significant both for the financial dimensions of the intervention and for its social dimensions. I shall try to make the major points, on which I should like to stress at once something which perhaps, Mr President, does not make much of a scene in the newspapers, but which I think is extremely useful for the history of Parliament and for the history of Italy. All or almost all relevant issues have been voted by all, majority and opposition: all. Most of the fundamental amendments, which I shall dwell on, have been voted on by all. This is proof that they are the majority, but above all the oppositions, given their parliamentary status, have done their work in the Commission in depth and with great diligence, intelligence and passion. I try to explain the major issues that have been addressed and resolved in the Commission. I'm on top of that. The first, to which I attach and attach - I think - the greatest importance, is the remodulation of IRAP, a remodulation that has allowed the involvement in an exemption of more than 1,400,000 small and very small economic operators. These are companies without employees, which were excluded from the version that entered the Senate and are included from the one that came out of the Commission. The burden - because it was a question of making choices on charges - for 1,400,000 households will weigh proportionally much less on just over 100,000 operators, who already have another of those benefits that can be found in the law of stability, in particular that of the 80 euros. There is therefore the integral involvement of 1,400,000 small and very small economic operators in the face of a burden for a little more than 100,000 subjects. The second question, which concerns as many millions (now) of operators, in particular self-employed workers, was the remodulation of taxation on pension funds and pension taxes, with a system that, if it were to work, would be innovative and, I think, useful. In essence, it is expected, of course within what we call spending ceilings, i.e. within the limits (but significant limits, I believe that this rule has been encrypted to 85 million euros, in fact I have said that the financial dimensions have been considerable), a reduction in taxation that I call revenue, that is the one originally foreseen for these subjects in the measure arrived at in the Senate, for a share of investments in the economy in the medium and long term (in technical terms), but through its administrative definition, this time with a commitment (to which I attach absolute confidence) to operate very quickly towards the real economy as regards that type of investment. That is, we would move masses of money from citizens and operators no longer towards investments, which I call speculative technical terms, that is, in the short term (which are, however, the subject matter of pension funds and pension funds), towards medium and long term investments and possibly of the real economy. I think this is a good thing. Personally, as I believe, I would have liked the return to previous taxation, but this was not possible in the context of the resources we had and we have implemented this significant intervention. Thirdly, we have allowed foundations, banking and non-banking, a tax credit that will reduce the additional burden of income tax and that, in my opinion, as soon as possible, also in that case, will have to see the same orientation as I said, i.e. towards investments that, within the framework of their statutory autonomy (an aspect much discussed in Italy in the last decade), address business initiatives of a social nature. I think this is another important step. We must not forget the restoration of the sums which were too lightly eliminated for the urban free zones, which, I assure you, in the dimensions in which they were created, in the areas of the Objective convergence, have involved almost 20,000 small enterprises, even if with not large amounts. We speak in fact, by referring to Puglia, which I know well (but I imagine that those are the amounts), of 10,000-12,000 euros. At this moment, 10,000-12,000 euros for 20,000 companies are what can be done. We have restored part of that fund, so much so that, with amendments that the Government has accepted, other areas have also required this hypothesis of local development and immediate implementation. I add with little emphasis, because I was all too fond of you during the debate in the Commission, which we have further reduced the cut to the patrons. Whoever comes from my experience (we are of average naivety) does this knowing that not everything is perfect in those organizations. However, we felt that we should favour the users and users of the patrons, who normally are the people who emphatically say themselves "less well-off" and who uses them for a series of (too many) fulfillments useful for those ladies and gentlemen. We thought about them and we were able to find an approach. With a pinch of smile I say that of course, although not contenting everyone, floods and misfortunes in Italy are not lacking. The populations affected have therefore still been provided, even if not completely satisfactory. Efforts have been made to this end. Above all, I would like to remind you of a measure that has not been sufficiently talked about. Personally I communicate very badly and I am a bad customer for the press (I am excellent as a negative subject, but bad as a subject that speaks), but perhaps if the media were to deal with a little'more attention to what I am going to say would be a great thing. In the context of - will the Government allow me - a little too many government amendments presented at second reading - so my advice is to avoid presenting so many - there is one that needs to be given importance. I would stress that it has cost us the sacrifice, in particular to the Government and the rapporteur, to say no to other requirements of just as great importance. Having introduced for the first time, for a total sum of about 500 million, in the public health system the possibility of providing, not to the totality but to a certain large and hopefully increasing number of subjects, the drug that - I tell Senator De Biasi who is expert in this matter - heals from hepatitis C, a scourge that has very serious consequences, I believe is one of the most important measures adopted in this law of stability. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] So important that he forced us to say no to other matters. VOLPI (LN-Aut). No more Coats! Let us vote on the amendments instead of taking lessons every time! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u15	Please continue, Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u16	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). As I said, we have had to say that we are not painful in relation to other issues, we know that, but we have chosen an objective, to which we must attach great importance. If I may say, for the speed of work I have not been able to do something that I asked, that is to say, to make this measure directly to Parliament, but on this the collaboration of all the Members of Parliament and Members of the Senate of the Republic, of all the political forces, has made a decisive and decisive contribution without any division and with great intellectual honesty and intent on the part of all. Finally, I could talk about a lot of other issues, which we know more or less, but I think I have to finish, having framed the basic issues. Then there is another series of more or less small issues that are significant for certain territories, communities or social strata and if I have forgotten some in the debate they will certainly be dealt with more precisely than I have done. I shall end by thanking once again all the members of the Commission, no one excluded, but will allow me, Mr President, to thank in particular Deputy Minister Morando, who has followed the work completely, and Mr Baretta, who have done a work of absolute and indisputable quality and capacity, with a sense of institutional collaboration which, in the context of differences, difficulties and convergences, has been absolutely valuable and valuable. Above all, however, what I said here was possible thanks to the commitment, sacrifice, intelligence, dedication and honesty of the rapporteur to the law of stability, Senator Giorgio Santini, and Senator Federica Chiavaroli, rapporteur on the draft budget law. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] I repeat, only a very small final match (I think there was a comedy with this title): the essential merit, as far as Parliament is concerned, goes to Senator Santini and Senator Federica Chiavaroli. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mussini.]] So I draw on the law of stability. We have not considered the budget but, as you know, it is of minor importance for the last year because we are moving towards the unification of the two documents. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to what Senator Azzollini has said, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, the draft stability and budgetary laws will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bertorotta.]] Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the final votes on the budget and the Stability Act will be by nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u20	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I have understood correctly, the work of the Budget Committee has ended without giving the rapporteur a mandate to report back to the House, which contradicts the excesses of triumphalism of President Azzollini, who have frankly struck me, partly because I do not know exactly what he has spoken about. Did you tell us about the text from the House? Sub-amendments submitted by the government? Did you talk to us about the debate on the same sub-amendments or rather about the work that took place on the amendments? I do not know what you have spoken about: all I know is that, at the end of the general discussion, there should be a large amendment by the Government, which should theoretically take into account the work done in the Commission, of which we were satisfied in the report made by President Azzollini. Well, I read an ANSA report a few minutes ago: The Government will submit a major amendment. In principle, the text will resume its examination in the Commission, but there are no guarantees: now the government is in charge of the measure. This is announced by the rapporteur on the bill of stability, Giorgio Santini, speaking precisely of the measure. Congratulations to the majority; congratulations to the President of the Budget Commission; congratulations to the rapporteurs themselves and congratulations to the Government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Senator Volpi points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u21	What are you going to do about it, Senator Volpi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u22	On the order of business, Mr President, I think I should.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u23	He could have announced it to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u24	VOLPI (LN-Aut). I did it. Perhaps you didn't look at me, but I did, Mr. President. Sadly, she and I can never see each other. Anyway, president. Senator Romani had the delicacy to warn the Presidency first. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think I can ask to speak on the order of business on behalf of my Group by raising my hand. It is not that there must be a dispute between you and me every time when I can speak, I apologize. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. You're welcome. VOLPI (LN-Aut). President, allow me to talk about something else. I have listened to President Romani's speech, who has also partly anticipated my reflections, but I put a question to her. A debate is about to begin now which, as has happened several times in recent months, will be absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] In fact, we are talking here about a possible - I assume this is the case - maxi amendment of the Government, which from some agency news is supposed to be even at 8 p.m. this evening. This afternoon the senators and senators will talk about issues they don't know: we're making fun of each other. The thing that surprises me most is that these gentlemen have now accustomed us to economic lessons and what has been done and I hope that Deputy Minister Morando, with his usual synthesis, will not give us a further explanation of the government's economic policy today. President, the other day we were together at the Quirinale and some things were said. It is true that there has been an absolutely unelegant and excessive endorsement to the Government, but other things have also been said. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella]] It has been said that perhaps the urgent decree and the use of confidence had reached an excess: today we make this excess a farce, wasting Parliament's time for four, five, seven hours, discussing a measure that we do not know what it is, to finally put a confidence that we will vote at midnight. But does it seem to you that you represent in a serious way an institution vexed by the government in this way? But does this House still have any pride or is it simply the servant of the master sitting at Palazzo Chigi? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-MovX and Orellana and De Pin Senators]] But a minimum of seriousness, a minimum of pride in this House, is there still or are we here to randomly press buttons, depending on what the government will say to us today, at 8 p.m. this evening? Moreover, I would like to understand whether it is the practice of this Parliament - first in the House and today in the Senate - to accept or not what comes from the work of the Commissions because, if not, even the wise words - although useless - of President Azzollini are a farce; because to say that we work well in the Commission and then not to use the product of the work of the Commissions is a farce, President. I believe that we agree with you on the discomfort in continuing to work in this way, and it does not depend on majority and opposition, but on the desire of each senator to influence choices that affect the country. I feel offended; I don't know if you feel offended too, but maybe you should. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u25	You know very well that if you do not have the general discussion you cannot arrive... VOLPI (LN-Aut). He understood the political sense. PRESIDENT. - You know very well what the Rules of Procedure require. You are also well aware that once the question of trust has been raised, a Conference of Leaders will be held to determine the timing of the debate that will take place. You know very well that this includes the Rules of Procedure and this will be the course of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to make the first general speech on a complex measure which, after fifteen days of intensive work, arrives in this Chamber without having been given the mandate to the rapporteur. My brief speech is divided into three points. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u27	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u28	ZANONI (PD). Maybe my speech will be a little boring, but maybe... president. Senator Zanoni, please continue. My speech consists of three points: the content of the original text and the objectives of the Stability Act; a summary of the work done in the Commission by all the roles involved; and measures for local authorities. The first point. I remember that the original text, with reference to the Update Note to the DEF, provided for a maneuver of 36 billion articulated in the following way. The 36 billion revenue is given by: 11 billion from the deficit; 15 from the spending review; 3.8 billion from the fight against evasion; 0.6 billion from broadband; 1 billion from slot machines (to be associated with the 50 million expenditures of the National Health Service for the prevention, cure and rehabilitation from ludopathy), 3.6 billion from rents and one billion from reprogramming. Of the 36 billion outs, we remember in particular: 9.5 billion euros for the bonus of 80 euros; 5 billion for the IRAP (work component); 1.9 billion euros... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u29	Please, those who have to discuss are kindly asked to sit outside the Chamber. I would not like to indicate name by name who disturbs the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u30	[[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] Please, Senator Zanoni, continue. ZANONI (PD). Thank you. As I said, of the 36 billion outputs we mention in particular: EUR 9.5 billion for the 80 euro bonus; EUR 5 billion for the IRAP (work component); EUR 1.9 billion for the permanent contract; EUR 0.8 billion for VAT matches; EUR 0.5 billion for families, as well as important elements on school, social shock absorbers, the Stability Pact for Municipalities, etc. The change to the Update Note to the DEF has reduced a bit the space of the maneuver, but it has not affected all the objectives of this maneuver and the tension to the development of the law of stability in its original text. Many improvements have been made to the House... [[Brusio]] . I am a little surprised, Mr President, that all those who wanted an organized and orderly speech to understand and learn are now chatting. [[Applause from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] A number of improvements have been made to the House, I said, but I would like to focus, given the limited time available, on the work done in the Commission. A great deal of work has been done in these fifteen days, of which we must acknowledge the majority but also the minority, because we have all participated with equal commitment and much enthusiasm and dedication. Many amendments have been adopted (many unanimously); many of them have been the subject of amendments tabled by the Government and the rapporteur's summary amendments. Many rewordings have been adopted unanimously. I quote some examples, some flashes, because many issues have already been highlighted by President Azzollini: hepatitis C, the topic of asbestos, the patrons, the pension fund, the IRAP of the self-employed, the regime of minima, the urban free zones (at first the investment was 100 million, had gone to zero in the House and became 40 million in the Senate) and the flood fund, which was not there before. Certainly more can be done about it, but specific interventions are foreseen and there is a great deal of attention to all realities. I thank in particular all the Sardinian senators, who, with their passion, have included improving elements, but also the senators from the regions that have been affected in recent years by floods, who have made themselves expression of needs: all together we have tried to bring some benefit for these territories. Let me turn quickly to the third point: policies for local authorities. We all focus in the last few days of discussion on some issues and protests, but the maneuver is very articulated and contains elements of great novelty for local authorities. Good incentives to unions and mergers of local authorities; good to move from linear cuts to standard needs and costs. I also find that it was an excellent thing for the Government to withdraw amendment 28000 (if I remember the number correctly), because perhaps the instrument with which to leave for such an important operation and carried out at a faster pace than was thought before must be more pointed. It is always good to renegotiate the loans, the deficit table for the extraordinary assessment of loans over thirty years, in connection with the whole issue of accounting harmonisation. Well the larger debt limit; well the fund for the interest account; well the treasury advances; well some provisions for the failing institutions; well the participation in the fight against evasion, which has gone from 33% to 50%, and now to 55%. If we really want to combat evasion, local authorities and all those closest to the territory have more tools and more investigative capabilities. It is also right that it remains to their part of the entrance, not to spend for themselves (of course), but for their own territory. However, there are points on which the government must intervene quickly, in this or in other measures. We said so in the Commission; the Government has already made commitments. For the municipalities it is necessary to rethink the so-called TASI fund, which is not (the 625 million): in the Commission the Undersecretary Baretta has already made commitments. As for the Provinces, there are the three measures (precari, two-year slippage of mortgages and alienation of real estate). Surely in a future measure we need to think about exemptions from the Pact, particularly for metropolitan cities, if we do not want them to die before they are even born. A particular attitude is needed for the regions, because each has its own specific characteristics and perhaps it is really useful to always take specific and not general measures. We have done a lot, but we have to learn to work in a more orderly way. In some cases, compliance with times and rules becomes a substance, as in this case. We did a great job, but in the end it was missing the packaging and the gift didn't arrive. There will be a lot of speeches after mine that will come to the substance of the many issues that are of interest to citizens and that have specific competences in this area. I would particularly like to thank President Azzolini, who, although deeply disturbed for personal reasons, did not make him weigh on the Commission's work. And I mean, let's hope we've worked well. I say this first of all to myself: we hope to launch a good law for the development and the good of the women and men of this country that we never love enough. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u31	I greet, on behalf of the Senate, students and students, professors and companions of the Antonino Caponnetto Foundation who participate in the project "I giovani, sentientelle della legalità". Thank you for your attention and for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u32	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u33	Mr President, I reserve the right to speak in these eight minutes about the draft stability law as it has been presented to us and as we have discussed it, despite taking note of the distorted debate that we are taking part in. I say this because, in reality, the law of stability in fact corresponds, as you have presented it to us, to the idea of a country that has this Government. We will carefully consider the maxi amendment and we would very much like to be denied, but we fear - ahinoi - that we will only find confirmation of what you have already said. The debate on the law of stability, in fact, is a debate that needs a global vision. The crisis we are going through, in fact, is a crisis that dates back to 2008, when it was already discussed extensively by movements and social organisations at the European Social Forum. I remember that in Florence, in 2002, thousands of young people gathered from all over Europe to listen to Susan George, who told how two thirds of the world's wealth was false and that it was only a financial wealth, while the real one, linked to production, was only a third. And I must say that among that incredible multitude of young people from all over Italy I do not remember having seen the then President of the Province of Florence. Today the relationship between financial wealth and real wealth is ten to one, and it is a clear indicator of a profound alteration that is exposing us today, as well as in 2008, to the risk of another financial bubble. The values of the crisis are in fact at pre-crisis levels; it worries the amount of liquidity, especially of derivatives (78 trillion dollars worldwide, a figure that equals about four times the world GDP). If this bubble explodes it could fail two or three pivotal banks (some European, even German) and perhaps, to save them, we would do what was done in 2008: save the banks and not the workers; save the banks and not the factories. We have clear what your idea of the law of stability is and what the political choices are. They speak very clearly your identity card and your presentation. For us this is a very important act, because the crisis we are going through has led to an unprecedented impoverishment of the middle class and the working classes. In this law of stability we not only take nothing innovative, but are evident many regressive and procyclical elements, capable of deepening the recession instead of reversing it. The non-choices of the law do not help us to get out of the crisis, they do not create jobs in the immediate future and they do not even lay the foundations for creating jobs in the future. On the other hand, you told us in the DEF: the macroeconomic impact of the main stability measures is almost zero. As a result of the EUR 80, you forecast only 0.1% of GDP growth and the same applies to jobs act, and these are optimistic forecasts. (15:43) (Following PETRAGLIA). We, the Left Ecology and Freedom, have tabled several amendments to create good and broad employment and you have rejected them, because your law of stability goes in the opposite direction. Instead of creating jobs, you have set yourself the goal of saving large entrepreneurs on labour costs, leaving workers with less and less guarantees, protection and rights and, above all, with less bargaining power. These wrong and dramatic choices are sold to the country as choices able to bring back to Italy the companies that have relocated abroad to return to invest in Italy and bring foreign investments, and in the meantime reduce IRAP also to companies that fire and relocate. You have also introduced nothing that could distinguish, in terms of the premium element, those companies that invest in research. This amendment has also been rejected. President Renzi has embraced Juncker and the directors of austerity to widen the boundaries of the narrow economic parameters, impossible to respect in a situation of recession and risk of deflation like the current one. But the words of the President-in-Office of the Council - we have learned this now - never coincide with the choices that his government really makes. A different approach, a strong choice in favour of public investment, expansionary measures, investment in what is the most important sector: our human capital, that is, people, workers, would have been coherent. But this law of stability goes in the opposite direction. In the fields of culture, school and university, only cuts are expected. New cuts in research are expected and a mass dismissal for thousands of research checkers, because you refused to stop one of the many Gelmini disasters. You rejected an amendment calling for more money for public research by overcoming the premium. After the ruling of the European Court, which obliges the recruitment of 250,000 precarious, we at SEL would have expected an increase in funds to stabilize the greatest precariousness concentrated in a single public company, restoring social and economic dignity to the role of teachers. But this law of stability goes in the opposite direction: talk about school autonomy and cut 30 million euros to the law on school autonomy; reduce the funds for recovery courses by 10 million, so that only children who can afford private lessons can be recovered and, therefore, renounce a real fight against school dispersal. The fund of the training offer is reduced by 50%. School workers and administrative staff are further cut: we dare not imagine how school leaders will be able to guarantee the opening of the many complexes, as indicated in the good school. You even refused to approve an amendment on the INVALSI and the eighth grade exams that would save and honor a commitment made by the Minister himself. However, the 200 million funding for private schools remains very firm: important resources that could be invested in state schools. But it is clear that you are committed to continuing the dismantling work begun by Tremonti and Gelmini. There are no real resources for school construction and asbestos emergency: you have allocated less than the 2012 budget. In order to find five million for the flooded schools of Sardinia - as envisaged in our amendment - it was necessary to send you to the Commission late in the evening. You have well outlined your idea of good school in the law of stability. In times of crisis so hard to invest resources for the right to study means thinking about good school: resources for textbooks, transports, the canteen, the many educational offerings; resources to make the school equal for everyone and not for social classes and for census. But you have also gone in the opposite direction, simply because you have decided to fight the poor and not poverty. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, who was the only person in the Commission who managed to bring together the thinking of several political parties, to sum it up and to table amendments which were then voted unanimously. They were, of course, important amendments for Italy, which could not be postponed, but they were able to do this, and I believe that, in the situation in which we found ourselves this year in the Budget Committee, it was really almost impossible. Having said that, however, I must add that we have not voted on the mandate to the rapporteur and I believe it is necessary to explain why we have not done so. I'd like to start from a distance. In the Senate I attended only two financial sessions: one is this year's one, which we have not yet finished, and the other is last year's one. These two experiences, however, have made clear to me what it means and what the law of stability within the palaces means. The law of stability does not have a meaning of life, as for people who are out of here, because, depending on what is or is not inserted within it, people's lives are changed. It has an exquisitely political meaning, I would say almost disgustingly political meaning, although perhaps this word cannot be used in this House. Last year, during the examination of the law of stability, we spent the first month and a half deciding who the majority was. I don't know if you remember, but last year, during that period, the PdL Group split up and became two separate groups: on the one hand, Forza Italia and on the other, the New Right Center. In the Budget Committee, a month was spent deciding, together with the Government, who was in the majority and who was in the opposition. No one gave a damn about what was going on outside the palaces: the only problem was to decide what was the majority and how to divide the amendments tabled to the Stability Act. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And that was really sad. Something worse happened this year. There are still problems with the majority, but this year the problems were of the Democratic Party, which should therefore take full responsibility for the failure to debate today, because, since we have not voted on the mandate to the rapporteur, we cannot discuss anything. [[Brusio from the PD Group.]] But they don't listen to me anyway, so I can say anything. Only Senator Santini listens to me, but because he's afraid of what I'm saying. What really happened? Everything went well until last Saturday the Government tabled 60 amendments, which were added to what the Government in this law of stability had already tabled, i.e. 20 amendments, plus the 1,000 amendments of the Democratic Party submitted to the Budget Commission. The 60 amendments tabled on Saturday came from the Ministries, they were not from the Government, and therefore the majority was in disrepute, because these new amendments removed any room for manoeuvre for the adoption of amendments of the same PD or other majority forces, with the result that during the votes they would no longer have the opportunity to carry on their issues; so much so that the Government in the Commission was beaten, it went under. In addition, the PD, after submitting 1,000 amendments to the Stability Act, submitted more than 100 sub-amendments to the Government's amendments. We therefore have a majority subjecting the amendments of your Government: we are in pure madness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] There was therefore a text of the law of stability that came from the House, another that came from the Ministries and the poor majority within the Parliament that wanted to make its parliamentary contribution by submitting its amendments in the hope that someone would be accepted. But there was no more room. Therefore, river meetings of the majority have started since Monday, which no longer knew how to do, either because it did not say to the Ministries, but it was impossible, or it said no to the majority, and saying no to the PD is not easy, because it is the main political force that supports the Government, especially during the voting in this House, and that will have to vote on confidence tonight. So there was a river meeting on Monday that practically didn't do any good. Tonight, at 2 a.m., after two days of work practically flooded by the amendments tabled by the Government and the majority, the PD was still submitting amendments to the government's amendments, knowing that at 9.30 a.m. it was to be in the Chamber this morning. I believe that this is madness, because if you want to bring home a law of stability for the benefit of the citizens and not for other matters, four hours before the work of the House do not put aside sub-amendments because you want the government to accept them. In summary, there were the amendments of the Government, the sub-amendments of the majority and the sub-amendments presented by the rapporteur: all of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then they say to us that we do obstruction: but where do you think you're going? Do we blockage? We have been criticized for having done two 20-minute speeches, so we have gone too far. Did we go too far? We have tabled 200 poor amendments and there were very few sub-amendments. The PD caused this situation until tonight at 3 o'clock, and then, after the Commission's work, it was said to see this would happen. There was a two-hour meeting, from 3 to 5 p.m., of the PD and of the majority and, magically, there were only 20 amendments this morning. But couldn't it have been done sooner? We had to wait tonight or this morning, and then go put the trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] After ten days in the Commission, we are now in this House talking about the law of stability, without knowing what will happen in this measure. The law of stability is the law that controls the whole life of citizens, affects everyone's life, both inside and outside. It's just that we have a few more privileges in here than the ones outside, who are dying, while you're still circling, saying, "My amendment or his... "No, the other one is better... If I do not give this amendment to that group, then it does not vote when we go to the group leaders, and then there will be the election of the President of the Republic, so we must have the votes of all... And then if you go to the election... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... This is the meaning you give to the law stability: a filthy political meaning. That doesn't make any sense! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I've said that many times before, so let's just leave it alone. I would like to point out in more detail how much you care about citizens in this stability law, starting with the amendment on IRAP, previously mentioned by the President of the Budget Commission, which I do not see in this House at the moment. We have also made a press release on this amendment, which is a farce even worse than what has happened in the Commission these days. According to Deputy Minister Morando this amendment will affect 1.2 million companies, while according to President Azzollini the companies on which it will affect are approximately 1.4 million. Whether the one or the other figure is correct, 163 million tax credits have been allocated for this amendment for 2016. So, by dividing the 163 million by 1.2 or 1.4 million companies, even rounding for excess, we have a tax credit of about 12 euros per month for each company. I'm really sure that will solve the problem, among other things for 2016! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I would like to ask you for a few more minutes to finish my speech, because I have been a little longer, since this has been a little bit more expensive for me. It can be said that this House is hot and hot, isn't it? Not content, in addition to the amendment on IRAP, which grants this tax credit to the few companies that will have remained in place in 2016, the 1990 Law No 407 is totally repealed, which was a structural law made before the rule on balance in the Constitution and which did not need an allocation of funds every year. What was this law for? It helped the unemployed. [[Call the president back.]] I have almost finished, Mr President: I really only ask for a moment of patience. So not only do we not help the unemployed and we will no longer have Law 407 of 1990, but we will offer a beautiful contribution to companies, which will certainly help recruitment. Those who will hire in 2015 will have a tax relief for three years: but we had asked that, if the worker is fired, the relief is no longer there, otherwise the company hires, dismisses the worker and will also have the tax relief for three years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is crazy! This amendment, however, has not been accepted either. I shall end, Mr President, by thanking you for your patience, by saying that we have not guaranteed them at all, we do not guarantee them a decent life and a certain income, but we have managed to guarantee the banks that have concluded derivatives with the institutions. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] The guarantee of the Cash deposits and loans will not be a guarantee to the institution, but to the bank, if it loses, with a derivative stipulated with the institution. Does this seem healthy and normal to you in a country where people starve to death? [[Live applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Mussini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u36	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, this law of stability is taking its toll, because compared to last year it attempts to intercept a possible recovery, through the use of resources, which is three times higher than last year, it does not provide for greater taxation and, indeed, it intervenes specifically on the lowering of the tax burden on companies, mainly with the deductibility of the cost of labour from the IRAP tax base. This choice goes hand in hand with making the increase in average-low incomes permanent and structural, with an immediate function of social restraint and support, therefore a measure of social justice, which, in the short term, gives families the possibility to rebuild the savings stock and, in the medium term, allows to give a stimulus to consumption; so much so that the study center of Confindustria previews, only for 2016, a more significant increase in consumption, even if there are slight signs of recovery. As has been pointed out, the Commission in Parliament has done an excellent job on many sides. However, Mr. Deputy Minister Morando, I would like the government to reflect on a given. We have a global scenario definitely improved compared to three months ago. In these three months there have been improvements, such as the fall in oil prices, a fall in interest rates, an expansionary monetary policy, an increase in world trade driven by the US recovery. Mr. Deputy Minister, we have conditions under which we can engage the recovery, since we have passed the second recessive phase. It seems to me, therefore, that one point is missing: the government has done a worthwhile job by lowering the tax burden. Dear colleague Bulgarelli, companies will have real resources with this law of stability. The point is to ensure that these resources do not become only useful for the enterprise. We, in fact, have a problem... BULGARELLI (M5S). The problem is that there will be no more companies in 2016. Mr Moscardelli (PD). Let me talk. I didn't interrupt her. The revival of consumption can take place not so much through greater availability of resources, but through increased employment. Today unemployment is unsustainable, economically and socially. The point, in order to restart employment, is business. If we have an investment problem today, because we depend on European policy and we can do very little (in this respect, well the relaxation of the Stability Pact with regard to the regions), then we need to make sure that these additional resources for companies are reinvested by companies, both in terms of competitiveness and in terms of strengthening productive capacity; this can be translated into a better context of labour market reforms, justice, public administration and taxation, under conditions that can give a strong boost to employment. In my view, intervention had to be made (and we have to do so this year, by recovering) on investment in industrial machinery. It is true that we have the new Sabatini law included in the decree of doing, but it is an intervention essentially limited to interests. In the Competitiveness Decree there is tax credit of 15% on the average of the last five years of investment: it is little; it works, it's fine, but I would have done a shock measure, perhaps as a tax credit of 50% of the capital, investing resources even for 1 or 2 billion euros, which would have been recoverable. An amendment has also been tabled to this effect, with the approval of the Budget Committee. It is clear, in fact, that, through the modernization of industrial machinery, we would have given a strong boost to the leading sector of our manufacturing industry - that of industrial machinery - in the presence of fresh resources for companies to modernise their plants. Moreover, the Confindustria study notes that there is a low propensity to modernize industrial machinery. This would have been a strong element, in order to increase productivity, together with a research tax credit, Mr Deputy Minister, which must cover all the volume of investments, not only incremental ones. Indeed, the competitiveness of our companies and the drive to produce are the basis in a more favourable context for increasing employment. Another important element is the cost of energy. Mr. Deputy Minister - if it is possible to have your attention - we have a paradox in our country: on the one hand there is the collapse of the price of oil; on the other hand we have new, central plants, which have problems in order to have a future ahead of them, because there is an excess of supply. The paradox is that demand is struggling to spread over excessive prices. We need to put our hands on this important sector, because it is clear that the energy companies in our country operate in strategic sectors. These two elements, a shock measure for investment in machinery and industrial modernisation, and a measure concerning research into production processes and product innovation, are the fundamental drive, in an undoubtedly improved context, to seek to recover employment. From this point of view, the impact on employment is too small as is estimated at present, although we can expect better effects from this point of view. I welcome a measure that was underlined by President Azzollini: I am referring to the recovery of IRAP benefits out of 1,400,000 small businesses. This is an important amendment, which helps to extend these benefits. I believe that this opportunity for the recovery should not be thwarted. Last year there was a law of stability that had no help in the parliamentary process, there was a weak political direction. This year something better was done, but much more could be done. I believe that we should work with the Government on new measures to help bring resources in this direction, because in my opinion there is another element, another push to try really this year to hang up a recovery that a new international context, even better than the Update Note to the DEF of a short time ago, puts us in front of that we cannot let go. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u38	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared my speech, but, in the light of the reflections that have been brought to our attention by our Senator Azzollini (who I appreciate and to whom I love, I really say so with my heart), I was surprised by a few small reflections that he thought should be small, but it seems to me to be very important. I am referring, for example, to the fact that, according to Senator Azzollini, we are faced with a maneuver that has brought so much interest and will certainly bring something good in the interest of the country. Before I think about it, I would like to refer to a speech by one of my colleagues in the Chamber, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Azzollini was not talking about 140,000 families. Azzollini actually spoke of 14,000 families, which are actually 2,500 small enterprises, because he multiplied each company by four or five (how many members of a family) and thus indicated a higher number, to make it clear that the families that could be better overall on the national territory are 14,000 and not 140,000. However, I did not understand correctly, when he said that this maneuver was wonderful and that it was the most brilliant and interesting of the last nineteen years and it is to be commended: in his report perhaps he forgot to say that, following the approval of the maneuver itself, there will be free drugs for all the weak and for all pensioners, that there will be popular homes for all those who are in difficulty and live without a roof on their heads, that the infrastructures that are currently lacking will be put back into operation, with truly alarming and disastrous situations throughout the national territory, that there will be prevention measures for the hydrogeological failure so as not to make interventions always of urgency and waste money. I didn't understand if he talked about the scholarships that should be given to worthy students and that they haven't been giving themselves for a few years and if he talked about school canteens, where they give really shameful meals. And then there is someone inside this House who praises a government who spends EUR 500,000 to give the drug against hepatitis C, but does not care that within schools, throughout the national territory, children and operators are continuously at risk of contracting hepatitis C because of canteens that do not guarantee the product that is being consumed. I did not understand if the Government was talking about the restoration of monetary sovereignty to Italy or if our colleague Azzollini, good and that we admire, talked about the return of the Bank of Italy to the Italians. I understand that Senator Azzollini and this Government are proud to have reduced the increase in taxation of pension funds and pension funds. This Government boasts that it has created a barrier to credit institutions in Italy, to banks, when they own our Bank of Italy, and our President of the Council and the Government do not have the attributes to bring back the Bank of Italy to the Italians within Parliament. The President of the Council and the Government do not have the attributes to bring within Parliament the return of monetary sovereignty to Italy, which could completely resolve the difficult situation that this country is going through. It is not conceivable that the supreme good of a nation is in the pockets of bankers and the ECB. It is not conceivable that a government does not review the Treaty of Lisbon and taking one of the fundamental steps, which invites us to find solutions when a country goes through a time of difficulty, even by creating a parallel currency without coming out of the euro. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that I consider that today you do not rebel and continue to vote for trust, because you are delegitimized of your power of dialogue within this Parliament. [[Call the president back.]] Let us discuss the maneuver without a report and without a rapporteur. But they have told us - and I conclude, Mr President - that a great deal of work has been done, a great job which, alas, has not been completed. Another important reflection, ladies and gentlemen, that we should write in our schools - these are the ones we use daily - is the reproach to the Government that too many amendments have been tabled at second reading. What are we talking about? Are we playing within this Parliament? It is a Parliament that has delegitimized, and a part that is present in it continues to make delegitimization stronger, because it thinks that the less we are, the better we are. [[Call the president back.]] We cannot understand that here, in this House, in the differences of our positions, there should be the salt of democracy, to bring out what is or could be useful to our country's interest, without prejudice to political opponents and trying to defend Italian families. Then I want to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u40	Conclude! ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I conclude by saying: thank you, because 14,000 families will be better. Thank you, but why did you not discuss in this House all those small and medium-sized enterprises that are not in a position to have access to credit because the banks are asking for 5, 6% or 8% interest? Thank you, Government, because later you will give us this maneuver with a vote of confidence! Thank you, Government! Thank you, Government, because you no longer let us speak in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Scilipoti. Don't make me take your word for it. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Government, because we don't count for anything anymore, because a group has arrived that thinks it's the dictator on duty or the dictators on duty. And then we rebel and say "no!" with great force.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u41	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] I don't know what the value of my speech will be. I don't care. But I am free to say what I think and to say that many of you are dead (politically) in this House! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u42	Faced with all the debts, colleagues, Senator Barani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u43	Mr President, of course I believe myself among the colors that are still alive, as Dante Alighieri said, politically, also because I am carrying the seed of reformism within this Senate. Also because, Mr President, I would like to say that, in fact, Renzi is not Craxi, Poletti is not De Michelis, Gentiloni is not Andreotti and of course Napolitano is not Pertini. During the period of Italy's economic boom, we had great statesmen who made it with a GDP of 5%, now instead we are faced with cuts to the Regions, but lively, how long do we say that we have to make the maxi Regions and we have to cancel the small Regions, which no longer have reason to be? Germany has done so, France has done it, Spain has done it, they are doing it all over the world and we are doing a constitutional reform and we continue to maintain the Regions, to maintain health to the Regions when it is now known that it is necessary to bring it back to the state in order to have a uniformity of treatment. Senator Scilipoti may be right when he says that more must be done on health care, as on canteens, as on school. I would add that in school the teaching staff must be aged, as in health care: we need new resources. The Fornero law is doing so much damage and will continue to do so, if we fail to bring generational change in health, culture, school, training, teaching. Sixty years of age now have, in health and school subjects, an ancient training that is not appropriate to the times, I dare say of the medieval period, so it is necessary to prevent our minds, our researchers in order to be able to enter the world of work and research, enterprise and innovation from going abroad. We must hold them back, but in order to do this we must of course relocate or perhaps put to rest the over 60s who now have more than 35-38 years of service and who no longer have reasons to continue their work, which has been valuable over the years but which is no longer suitable for the times. That is why we have 13.2% general unemployment, one of the highest in the world, and 42.3% youth unemployment, a negative record we have never had before. This government and part of this Parliament say they are reformists and socialists, but as I always say the socialist DNA here we have it in a few and we cannot say that we are part of the International or PSE, that we are socialists if we have never been and if we do not have that DNA. You are not reformists giving 80 euros, which mean nothing, you are not reformists not doing a reform for development, as it had done on the cost of labor that famous 14 February of the eighties the government that I mentioned first of Bettino Craxi and others. Time is tyrant and I, of course, am not here to say that everything written in this economic maneuver is negative, but I say that it is not reformist, it is not a maneuver that brings development and occupation: it is a dress that is packed to continue to maintain the status quo and especially the interests of the red cooperatives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too can confirm that it is really Kafkian that the debate that took place in the Commission with amendments and sub-amendments, and now with the maxi amendment of the Government. I would just like to draw attention to a few points. First of all, this is the first law of stability of our Premier, which I would call "announcer" and it must be said that it takes courage to define this a "expanding" maneuver and able to restart the growth of our country. What appears to be evident is, on the contrary, the exact opposite. There are many points that leave you perplexed. First of all, the cover allocated to measures to combat evasion and cuts in public expenditure. I would like to focus the attention of the senators, in particular, on the rules that extend the reverse charge and introduce the split payment. These arrangements, designed to combat tax evasion, still need to be authorised in Europe. In the event of a refusal by the Council of the European Union, there will be increases in VAT and excise duties on petrol and diesel. This risk represents a heavy sword of Damocles, not only on the heads of citizens, but above all on businesses. If these safeguard clauses were to be taken, the recessive effects on our economy would be devastating. The drastic reduction in resources, envisaged in the cuts to local authorities and regions, will result in the elimination of services to citizens or an increase in local taxes, or perhaps both. Some regions have already seen the possibility of reducing health expenditure. This manoeuvre, therefore, will worsen the conditions of Italians, already exhausted by a crisis worse than that of '29. The government, then, with the mess of the abolition of the Provinces, managed at one stroke only to put against one another the precarious, the winners of the public competition to enter the public administration and the qualified in ranking: a real blow as a teacher. Speaking of cuts, not all the Dicasteries were hit the same way by the government's ax. It turns out, in fact, that the defence will be able to avoid the cut of 200 million euros from its budget: these resources will be found thanks to a reduction of the Fund for structural interventions of economic policy. Good for the commitments made by Italy, a little less for the needs of families and businesses. Yet another gift to oil lobbyists has the form of the ridiculous amount for concessions to drilling our sea and the increase in VAT for pellet consumers from 10% to 22%. Coming then to the measures designed for growth, the choice to allocate the FTT in pay envelope will result in the risk for low-income workers that their pensions will not be adequate in the future. In short, those workers will have hunger pensions. In addition, employers who cannot immediately pay their own resources to the FTT will have to make use of the credit, provided that they are able to obtain this financing, given the continuing credit crunch of the banks. We therefore come to the 80 euro bonus: the Government should have the courage to admit that it was not the stimulus to the domestic demand that Italy needed. The 80 euros had no effect on the growth of consumption. Making them structural will not change the situation. In exchange for a very weak signal towards the reduction of the tax burden, the lives of self-employed and professionals have become even more unsustainable. The introduction of the minimum system will lead to the closure of many VAT consignments. When a professional is asked for a minimum income capacity, which is not real compared to current times, hundreds of thousands of freelancers, professionals and knowledge workers are pushed out of the labour market. It is useless to continue to deceive us. The resources are less and less and the European constraints are now engulfing our country. The President-in-Office of the Council has boasted in this House that, thanks to Italy, we are finally beginning to talk about investment and not just austerity in Europe. If the strong point is the Juncker Plan, we all know that there is no fresh money and that the famous 315 billion to be allocated to growth is actually the result of an imaginative leverage. The much-declaimed Juncker Plan is nothing more than a fund of 21 billion, too few to trust in a recovery of investment in Europe. This law of stability, unfortunately, will not be able to avoid the recessive spiral that Italy has now undertaken. Finally, and finally, the European Commission has already expressed serious concerns about the maneuver. If you have decided not to reject immediately the law of stability of Italy is only for political choice and to avoid disputes. In addition, the maneuver was ranked among those at risk of non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. There will be a new exam in March. Therefore, only a clear commitment by the Government to an exit from the euro and the impositions of the technocrats in Brussels will make us regain our monetary and fiscal sovereignty, the only requirement to raise the country. Continuing, however, on this road the decline of Italy will be inevitable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u45	Mr President, often the need to tell us the last half hour or the last hour in the difficulties of our parliamentary work prevents us from finding a common thread in our work. My intervention is the effort to coordinate all our work during 2014 which, for me who deal with the agricultural sector, is undoubtedly the watershed year. 2014 is the year that divides a previous period, in which agriculture has undergone a return that has seen us interact with five different ministers in four years, and a future in which a strategic vision of agriculture and its strategic potential is recomposing. It is a shared vision: this is testified by a much larger majority than the one that supports the Government; the testimony comes from much larger voting approvals than the number of those who make up the majority. Aiming at factors of competitiveness is the key to the recomposition of this vision: we have clearly identified five of them. The first is the human factor, the main driver of business protagonism, which feeds the innovative and market-oriented approach of the entrepreneur, who is required to know the product and management of the company that focuses on the quality and distinctiveness of the product, on the increase of yields but compatible with the sustainability of the environment, on the control of costs, on the approach to a global market. The human factor is decisive and the generational replacement is central so that those that today are single and sporadic winning experiences, become a widespread model of the productive system. It is young people who demonstrate more widely that they have this approach. The young people in agriculture, still too few, represent not an age category, but a new way of understanding the enterprise in agriculture, made of passion, sacrifice and challenge, in the awareness of the assumption of a slice of risk that policies of assistance had illusory could be reset and have for too long anesthetized the potentialities of that made in Italy that is increasingly of agri-food brand. The second factor of competitiveness lies in the system of companies that come together to become stronger and recover the share of that final value, represented by the price, so unfairly distributed today in the chain that brings the product from the earth to the consumer. Networks of companies are needed to carry out functions that go beyond the management of the field and include packaging, logistics, marketing, but also professionalism, innovations, to bring to the producer new stages of the production cycle and therefore the recognition of that part of the price able to make its income sustainable. The third factor of competitiveness is the new markets. For the product made in Italy internationalization pays. There are wide and expanding demand spaces, and the 60 billion Italian sounding offer a dimension that is definitely still partial. The fourth factor of competitiveness is the deburocratisation, reduction and simplification of administrative requirements, but without sacrificing the reliability of controls: this frees resources and time. The fifth factor is the efficiency of the institutions. The identification and sharing of these factors of competitiveness find in the proposals of the measures approved during this year coherent actions: the plan for generational replacement, the plan for investments in supply aggregation projects, the extraordinary plan for internationalization, bureaucratic simplification, the reorganization of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policies. If politics is consistent, change is possible. And it is the coherence that has defined the interventions for the agricultural and agri-food sector also in this law of stability: extraordinary plan for the promotion of Made in Italy, support to the supply chains and to the strengthening of the districts, the youth entrepreneurship and the generational turnover, as well as the interventions for the containment of the expenditure. In the Senate, the approved amending proposals extended the reductions provided for permanent recruitment to the agricultural sector and recovered funds for social shock absorbers for the fisheries sector. It is also worth mentioning the action to promote employment, in line - once again - with the basic choices to support the growth and employment of the majority and which should be included in the major amendment. Surely the path is still long and heavy: the pressing resistances, the unsolved sector crises (such as that of sugar beet and fisheries), the price pressure and the contraction of income, the access to credit and the application of Article 62, the increase of the cases of natural disasters and the inadequacy of the facilitated insurance system, the participation of the sector in a general taxation that is fairer and more sustainable. Well the postponement to 26 January of the IMU for the hilly municipalities and well the commitment of the Government to revise the criteria of application, taking into account the real ability to carry out agricultural activities in the different areas of the Country. There are so many issues that are still open and that remain on the table, but that in coherence they will certainly also be able to find an answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u46	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u47	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council, in these days and months, has repeatedly defined this maneuver as an expansive maneuver: a maneuver which, for the first time, does not put its hands in the pockets of the citizens. On the other hand, we believe that this manoeuvre is a financial one - the financial one - of the great injustices, great illusions and great lies. It is a great injustice, first of all, to choose to increase the taxation of pension funds and to give up the FTT in advance, but only in the face of its taxation. This is a great injustice to today's workers, who tomorrow will find themselves, as pensioners, with lower pensions and a lower income, insufficient to guarantee a decent life for themselves and for their families. Added then to the phantom so-called Fornero law, which the Democratic Party voted in these classrooms (which shouts shame at the effects it has caused on the future of today's workers and tomorrow's pensioners), this set of rules makes absolutely unfair the treatment that this majority and this Government carry out against those who tomorrow, as pensioners, will struggle to maintain themselves and their families. This point has not been resolved; it has been carried out with pervicacy and insistence and it is evident that those who will use the possibility to take advantage of the TFR in advance will be only those who, out of despair and necessity, will have sufficient resources to pay the increase of the tax pressure imposed by this State, which also with this maneuver will be confirmed as a constant of the policies of the Democratic Party. We therefore consider these measures absolutely unfair, just as we consider it unfair to grant the famous 80 euros, which went for the benefit of some families, but without considering families with even lower incomes, which are represented by many self-employed workers and above all pensioners, against whom there is no provision, by Renzi and his government, to protect them and to make their purchasing power more appropriate. The truth, then, is that in this maneuver there is an increase in the tax burden, because there are safeguard rules that are, in reality, inevitable certainties, because much of the financial coverage is fictitious and unrealizable and it will be almost inevitable that those increases in VAT and excise duties that the Government has written, black on white, in this maneuver occur. And let's talk about VAT. The government expects, in case of necessity (and unfortunately these needs are a certainty), the increase of VAT excise duties from 10 to 13 percent and that of 22 percent to 25.5 percent, between 2015 and 2018, with a further increase of excise duties on petrol of 700 million. From these "expansionary movements" (as defined by the Government) we expect to collect 21.26 billion euros in 2018: a hugeness that will be taken from the pockets of citizens and that shows even more that this maneuver is recessive and certainly not expansive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are predictions that you have inserted and written in black and white in the maneuver, are not our inventions. Other injustices: you have chosen to allocate few resources for the non-self-sufficiency and the funds provided for with this destination are absolutely inadequate. You have chosen to cut 35 million to the patrons and not to allocate sufficient resources to equal schools. You have chosen to tax historic vehicles with new car taxes. Instead, you have chosen to increase the budget for military missions abroad by 850 million. You have chosen to allocate an additional 110 million to Roma Capitale, after the 500 you have allocated, in practice annually, in recent years. You have chosen to allocate 200 million to refugees who require political asylum in our country, making them stay in hotels and perhaps leaving our citizens outdoors, without a roof, because they are unable to support their families. You've chosen to allocate another 100 million to the Revenue Agency. Therefore, you have addressed resources not where there were real priorities, but where you felt appropriate, according to criteria that we contest and do not agree with at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You then decided to hit the mountain hard with targeted interventions. The increase in VAT on pellets is a tax choice that affects mainly those living in the mountains and who have equipped themselves with this type of stoves that use such fuel material. You have chosen to postpone the problem of the shameful increase in agricultural IMU in mountain areas, but you have not solved it. You have postponed the solution to this problem and therefore, in fact, you have not solved it absolutely, but you have hit these territories. You have cut the facilities for heating oil for mountain areas, but it is not true that this problem has been solved with the amending action, because the amount of this cut has simply been adjusted to the facilities, which has not been reset. These are targeted interventions on a territory that, on the other hand, deserves different attention from the Government. We are also calling into question the choices to reduce expenditure. You have, in fact, reduced the expenditure for the Ministries by a little, because those were going to touch the policy of each of you and, in fact, you hit the local authorities with cuts of seven billion. Seven billion from next year, which will become eight in the following year and even nine in what will pass and towards which we are going. They are unsustainable increases, which do not affect the governors, do not affect the bodies (Common, Region and Province), but they affect the citizens, because these are resources that will be removed from the policies of the house, social policies, health policies, all the necessities to ensure adequate public transport in our territories. Obviously you have not downloaded these choices - as you well know - to other administrators, not assuming responsibility in the first person, but because to them you have left only the choices to be cut. But unnecessary spending can be cut, without affecting the living flesh of citizens with absolutely unsustainable cuts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And even here you have committed injustices because, through two amendments of the Government, you have actually canceled the cuts to two Regions, Trentino-Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia: cuts that will certainly go in the positive direction for the citizens who live in those Regions - and therefore we in the Commission, for charity, did not consider it appropriate to challenge - but that will create even more injustice towards all those citizens [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] who live in the regions with ordinary status and do not enjoy the same treatment and the same resources to guarantee them the services to which they are fully entitled. In particular, I want to highlight our territory, my own and other colleagues, the Veneto, which will be cut by more than 300 million, in the face of the zero cuts instead of the two regions with special status adjacent to the Veneto. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! TOSATO (LN-Aut). This is the treatment that the rapporteur, Mr Santini, like me, has guaranteed to our territory, to our people, who have not been able to protect. And, beyond its role - I too recognise the great work it has done in the Commission - from this point of view it has not paid any attention to those who like him, Venetian, are in a situation of evident injustice with respect to the citizens of the neighbouring territories. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] (Following TOSATO) I believe that these elements further strengthen our negative assessment of this measure. In the amendments - it is true - the demands of various groups have been collected, but in reality they have put in pieces: it has been decided, in fact, to insert small funding on all those chapters in front of which the various forces of majority and opposition paid attention, but with figures so symbolic as to give a positive image perhaps to the Government, but that will not solve absolutely the problems to which they are addressed. We refer to the hydrogeological failure: the resources directed to those who have suffered damage from floods or earthquakes are insufficient, absolutely inadequate and do not allow to say that the financial present gives adequate answers, beyond the triumphalisms of those who have carried out these measures. We voted for them, because inevitably it is better a piece than the total void. But this does not allow you to say that we, in the Commission, have had a favourable and positive attitude - as President Azzollini said - towards the overall system of the measure. The reality is that the President-in-Office of the Council is just a magician who shifts resources from one side to the other with fictitious cover and does not solve problems. Today it has only one priority, which is the obsession to quickly launch an electoral law to go straight to the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] : in essence, to escape from the responsibility for promoting measures, economic manoeuvres and so-called reforms that will have no effect on the growth of our economy, of gross domestic product next year and on the improvement of the lives of our citizens, and that hide behind the smokescreen of promises, illusions and lies. And, in order to prevent this from being exposed, he is willing to run to the polls as soon as this becomes possible. So, President, we say "no" to this government once again. Let us say no to those who once again ask us for trust, as the government will certainly do in the next few hours: a trust that does not deserve and that we will not grant him either today or ever. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u48	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u49	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, allow me first of all to express my indignation at this representation, typical of the theater of absurdity, which we have staged this afternoon: we are discussing something that does not exist, waiting for something that we do not know, just like the economic policy, and unfortunately also industrial policy, of this Government. In fact, if it is true that in the DEF there is a path and the limits within which to intervene in terms of available resources, it should be the law of stability that decides how to use them. This law of stability seemed to be born under the best wishes, following a Note of updating to the DEF that had nevertheless made hope for a turning point towards an expansionary policy, able to make forget those dictates imposed by a perverse austerity that contributed to the increase of social inequalities. The lack of courage, however, is often the daughter of bad conscience: it will be because of the fact that President Juncker's warning of "uncomfortable consequences" to the presentation of the Stability Act to the European Commission, the Government has readily adapted itself to the additional cuts, as suggested by the European Commission. And what about the smoky Juncker Plan, of about 315 billion investments that, as Andrea Del Monaco recalls in his article, would start from a European Fund for Strategic Investments of 21 billion euros, of which only 5 billion real money of the European Investment Bank and 16 between liquidity and various guarantees found in the current folds of the EU budget. The mechanism also provides for the EIB to grant loans of three times the initial capital. The alleged involvement of private investors should ensure a multiplier effect of 5. With this strange mechanism, the final amount of 315 billion would be reached, to be spread among the 28 EU countries, with a final leverage effect of 15 times. Of course, as a corollary, we will have a European Commission task force to evaluate the projects to be financed. I ask everyone present: do you think that a foreign investor, aiming brutally at the sole profitability of the investment, would choose to invest in an infrastructure in Bavaria or Calabria? But then I ask the government why ask for loans in the blackmailing and losing context of this false plan when we have 100 billion of our EU programmes on the agenda? Or does the Government not have confidence in its own capabilities and have invented yet another useless body in this law of stability, the famous consultation table on the European Funds? Why from the alarm of Minister Padoan on this economic crisis that we are going through, finally declared worse than that of the '29 (and we know well that that has led to the Second World War and the birth of totalitarianisms), have not derived those uncomfortable and not discounted consequent choices? On the other hand, we continue tirelessly, even in this law of stability, with the usual pull and release with the European institutions, despite the data at the basis of the requested derogation illustrate a very serious social situation. GDP, estimated, for 2014 is expected to be less than 0.3 per cent (less than 0.4 per cent for the Commission), debt travels over 130 per cent of GDP (with a forecast peak of 133.1 per cent in 2015), unemployment has now exceeded the threshold of 13 per cent, with youth on the dramatic threshold of 50 per cent, which reaches over 65 per cent in our southern regions. If we were in front of an enterprise, with these management data we would have been obliged to bring the books to court in order to request the judicial administration; on the contrary, we persevere in a waiting economic policy strategy, without a minimum vision of a national industrial plan, and of a neoliberal type, with the continuation in the disastrous program of privatizations, reaffirmed in this law of stability that it would be more correct to define the sale of public assets. In the meantime, the burden of this situation on the weakest strata of society is being overlooked, favouring the lowering of labour rights with jobs act - with the excuse of lowering the cost - and decreeing the death of micro and small enterprises: all this while we continue to make tax gifts to the usual large transnational industries, as well as to the omnipresent banking and financial sector. The similarity of the Italian and European ruling class with that of the Great Depression also finds precise terms of comparison. That of 1929, short-sighted, he found himself deciding, in that crucial situation, as Hirschmann recalls, on three different ideas on how to react: "exit" or "defection"; "voice" or "protest"; "loyalty" or "loyalty" or "loyalty" to a system in decline. It is precisely this misconceived loyalty that we continue to perpetrate against the Treaties by which we have been tied hands and feet. We are remaining slaves to a needless rigid idea of public accounts and still succubs of a pro-Monetarian practice and with the passing of time we show ourselves less and less free in our choices, even compared to our ancestors of 1929, remaining passive in the face of the decisions "suggested" by a speculative and uncontrolled finance, which is expelling the sovereign people. The choices put in place by this law of stability denote an even more serious quality than those of 1929, or a fourth way of reacting to the problems that are leading us inexorably towards the abyss: the rejection of reality, typical of the Roman Empire at its sunset. Instead of taking new paths, with courage, the answers that are supposed to be given by this law continue to be obsessed with the continuous reference to financial issues, which raise more and more doubts and questions about the figure and role of the State. As, for example, in paragraph 43 of Article 2. In it, the maximum percentage of funds, coming from the collection carried out by Poste Italiane SpA for activities of "bancoposta" is increased from 5% to 50%, which can be invested in securities other than those of the euro area government, with guarantee provided by the Italian State. The quality of the securities - which, thanks to this measure, could be of any kind, even the so-called junk titles - would require a prudent and public-account state to clarify the risks associated with the extension of the guarantee, with a relative forecast of the appropriations to cover, which in the event of a crisis would fall entirely on the budget of the State and, therefore, on the pockets of all of us. It is therefore possible to grasp in provisions such as these - there are many, even micro-sectoral ones, in this law of stability - the danger inherent in the phenomenon of the so-called financialization of activities attributable to entities that objectively constitute the pillars of public finance. But it is the South that once again comes out worse from this law of stability, and it is not - alas - a novelty. How can we fail to read as yet another robbery against the southern part of the country as laid down in paragraph 92 of Article 1 and paragraphs 35 to 44 and 57 of Article 3? A provision, the latter, unmistakably amending the main elements of governance and procedure relating to the resources allocated to the Development and Cohesion Fund for the period 2014-2020. According to paragraph 92, the contribution reductions for permanent recruitment (the famous 8,000 euros for three years for each new job, linked to the job act) will come from the reduction of 3.5 billion of the Rotation Fund for the implementation of Community policies, which in turn finances the Action Plan and Cohesion from 11.5 billion euros. It is money that was the prerogative of investments in Puglia, Sicily, Calabria, Campania and Basilicata: a real trap! Last October, the undersecretary Delrio communicated the half-life of Italian co-financing to the ESF and ERDF programmes for the period 2014-2020, for Sicily, Calabria and Campania. In this case the budget for the three Regions would see a reduction of resources of 8.1 billion euros and if the cut was extended to Puglia and Basilicata would reach the sum of 11.1 billion lost in seven years. Undersecretary Delrio has declared, also the 14th Commission, that Puglia and Basilicata will have a co-financing of 50% for their virtuous management and that the money of the co-financing relating to Sicily, Calabria and Campania will remain in those territories, but thanks to an ad hoc law. We are waiting for it to be checked, but we know - and we remember this - that the last one who played such a game, such an intervention, such Berlusconi, used the Community funds available to the regions of the South to put other pieces in the pockets of the budget, including the famous milk quotas so dear to the North League. Yet, during the year, President Renzi and his government spokesmen thundered more than once against the bad - when not the failure - use of EU funds. In fact, however, it seems to me that your Government, like its predecessors, has been completely disinterested in the planning of European funds. Looking ahead, it was only last October that the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement was approved and that national and regional programmes were still not approved; but, above all, about EUR 22 billion in programming 2007-2013 still needs to be spent. From the facts, by 2015 it is necessary to spend and certify this money, of which 14 billion are European, penalty the return of the latter to Brussels: a result not bad - unfortunately - for a government whose Premier declared that the lack of use of funds cries revenge! We, unlike you, are consistent: we continue to argue that it is necessary to violate the fiscal compact in order to launch a real sustainable development plan, based on investments that create real work. We need a new deal that, thanks to these funds, relaunches the Italian economy; a revival that cannot fail to have in that immense reservoir of unused resources, which is the Mezzogiorno, its point of origin. Otherwise, it will be that betrayed people who claim justice under your windows, above all - let me say - if we continue with the expelling of sovereignty, as happened this afternoon with this farce of discussion, which is an offense, even before this House, to the sovereign people, who should be represented here. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u51	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I will touch on a point of the law of stability, which I consider to be extremely qualifying as the bearer of a signal which, in its value, goes far beyond the specific aspect it deals with. President Azzollini mentioned in his speech the important measure relating to the problem of hepatitis C. I would like to link to it, in these words, those which I consider to be the equally important measures contained in the law of stability on the subject of asbestos; a subject which has a non-local significance, even if, of course, I say these words coming from that community and also having the duty to represent it. It has not been many weeks since - as you will all remember - we in this House also found ourselves commenting with dismay and dismay on the judgment of the Court of Cassation - which I do not comment here - which undoubtedly put us in front of a macroscopic contradiction, enormous, present in the very words of the Attorney General, who asked for the discharge for limitation of the terms of Schmidheiny, the main person responsible for that disaster, recognizing, at the same time, its objective responsibility. Starting from that sentence, which left dismay and which, like a slap, denied justice to the family members of the victims, after a battle lasted years, there was a reaction: we mobilized, playing our role as parliamentarians, finding the immediate and prompt attention of the Government. Now, downstream of this path, carried out in a few weeks, I cannot fail to point out with particular satisfaction, for the value it has, the work that we have tried to do as parliamentarians of the territory (many of the colleagues of the Democratic Group who have competed in this, I do not mention them all because I would forget some of them) to prepare and submit amendments. Today we must record the important and significant attention of the Government, which with its own amendment has accepted not only our requests, but the demands of that community and that territory, providing very substantial resources to continue and accelerate the reclamation activity. And, given the subtle characteristics of a pathology that has very long incubation times, we know how fundamental it is to accelerate the Bonifiche, because removing those materials and reclamation of the territories means to remove those populations from the risk of further propagation of the disease. We speak of 45 million per year for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, which will be destined for that purpose. I would also like to highlight the important measures which, with the help of the Government, are contained in the Stability Act to ensure that they can access the asbestos victims' fund, already set up at INAIL and which still has a substantial capacity, not only workers who have been exposed directly for professional reasons to asbestos, but also family members and those who in some way risk or have already contracted the disease for environmental reasons. I believe that this is an important signal in this regard, but it is also an important signal of civilization and political culture. Of course, we know that some issues remain open, which have to do more directly with the issue of justice; I know that both the Government and many Members of Parliament are dealing with them, precisely as regards the issue of limitation. But this is a significant step forward, not only for the victims and those directly concerned, but I believe for everything in the country. I wanted to comment on this small but very important element of the law of stability, to underline its positivity, which is found in many other points that I do not now take back. In conclusion, I would like to make a general point, Madam President. I have heard before in this House a number of authoritative colleagues, with the intention - legitimate, for goodness' sake - of demeaning and making a little mockery of the scope of this law of stability, of summoning great political figures of the past, saying that those who had been statesmen and those who were indeed the laws of stability. Madam President, I bow in front of the personalities that have been remembered; and yet I cannot but say to myself, that I am the last one to come, that, when I raise my head after the bow, I find myself facing the mountain of public debt that those personalities have left on the shoulders of those who are here today trying to govern the country and to raise it from that abyss towards which it has been plunged. And when I hear some colleagues from today's opposition, who respect and legitimately express their point of view, crucify this law of stability, obviously not highlighting the very significant traits, which in my opinion are and make it overall expansive and important for this country, I think that these colleagues today are in opposition, but that for twenty years they had Italy at their hands and could have started those reforms that instead have not even been started. When we talk about the regions and the territories, why didn't we take on reforms that really gave effect to a federalism that very often, in the years behind us, has been so pronounced in words as denied in fact and reduced to the charade of four puppet ministries open in the Villa Reale of Monza? We're trying to climb up a difficult slope. We are doing this as parliamentarians of the majority and a government is doing it trying to give strong signals to this country. We know very well that there are still a lot of things to do, but I believe that we are on the right track and this law of stability is a very important step forward. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, this law of stability comes to this House a few hours after the publication of the Confindustria study centre on the economic data of our country. If we close 2014 still in recession, from the next quarter it is expected that GDP will return to positive sign and there are positive forecasts for the biennium 2015-2016 that we hope will be confirmed. However, Confindustria's studies also remind us that corruption makes us lose 6% of the wealth produced every year and represents a real noose that strangles our social and economic fabric, with regard to the possibility of fully expressing its potential. Well then, even in the light of the facts of Rome, the anti-corruption bill presented by the Government. It is also good the ratio at the basis of this law of stability, aimed at creating positive stimuli to restart the country. It is clear that this law moves in the very narrow margins and constraints imposed by Europe, as we can see that in some interventions we could do better and more, in order to point out in an even clearer way the furrow in which a measure for growth and recovery is inserted. Among the painful notes, I refer, for example, to the way in which the VAT minimum system has been operated, with an increase in the taxable amount and an invoicing ceiling that penalises, in any case, young freelancers. A profoundly wrong measure, because it penalises especially young people at a time when youth unemployment is at its peak and even Confindustria says that there are no signs of a reversal of trend in this direction. I am also referring to the substantial increase in VAT on pellets, after we had promoted the use of renewable energy, as well as the reduction in the quantities of agricultural fuel at a reduced price. It is fortunate that, at least, the Government has accepted the amendments of our and the other Groups to restore the facilities for heating oil in mountain areas and those to mitigate the reduction of funding to patrons, who carry out a fundamental service especially for the weakest categories. I believe that more could be done on the ground about bureaucratic simplifications, because bureaucracy in some economic segments represents a hidden tax, paid in the form of hours of work that are taken away from production to pursue the fulfillments and inefficiencies of the system. However, in the overall balance of the measures that favour growth and recovery and those that do not go in that direction, we believe that the result of this law of stability is positive. There are significant measures in favour of companies, the remodulation of IRAP, exemptions for small and very small companies, confirmation of tax deductions in the building sector and to promote energy saving, support for young farmers, measures to protect the birth rate and large families, as well as those to promote the competitiveness of a sector such as road haulage or those to deal with diseases related to gambling or, finally, for certain categories such as the blind, the hepatitis C patients or the victims of asbestos. Our appreciation, I repeat, goes above all to the spirit that has moved this law of stability. We are convinced that the ratio that is at the base of it will find wider breath and impact even more effectively, if soon there will be measures that propel its path. We are convinced that the investment in school (the good school, as our President likes to call it) goes from a massive investment on teachers, on the valorization of their qualities, on the ability to create an ever stronger link with the business world and, if there will be an investment on the dual school on which, in truth, this Executive has finally shown the right interest. We are also convinced that for agriculture there is a need to approve as soon as possible the connected, a measure that can help to free up the potential of the sector, also favoring the generational turnover and making agriculture an important vehicle of Made in Italy, also in view of the Expo of Milan on agri-food. Agriculture, however, is also the mountain one: on this the hope is that, in identifying the new criteria for defining the upland areas, as we had already pointed out to the Government, the real condition of disadvantage is taken into account and not the altimetry of the municipal seat, which obviously does not constitute a fair parameter. With regard to the work done in the Commission on the Stability Act, I too would like to thank the President and the rapporteurs, in particular Mr Santini, for finally having managed to resolve the long-standing issue of the Red Cross of Trentino-Alto Adige, where, due to a mere technical error in the provisions that led to its reorganization, dozens of qualified operators risked losing their jobs. But our greatest satisfaction lies in the fact that, again during the course of the procedure in the Commission, we have finally followed up on what was agreed by the Government with the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano on 15 October. The government had not had time to include it in the discussion in the House, but we credit President Renzi for having done so, according to the commitments made, here in the Senate. This agreement today will allow our two Provinces to put hand, already from the first months of the new year, to a first plan of improvement of the Statute of autonomy, with the autonomous Provinces that, in respect and in the valorization of their prerogatives, are committed to being responsible and integral part of a path of consolidation of the state public finance. And we appreciate that President Renzi has already communicated this to Vienna, demonstrating institutional sensitivity and respect for our special self-governments. Finally, the process that we hope will put an end to the anomaly of recent years, in which the legal disputes and the conflict between the State and the autonomous provinces have made the work of our institutions extremely difficult. Of this we acknowledge the Government, as well as having always sought a dialogue based on loyalty and responsibility. The same that put in place the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in wanting to make their contribution to the general interest of the country. I would like to address Senator Tosato, who I have heard before saying a few imprecise words: I will be pleased to have him have a very detailed and detailed study with all the numbers available, in which it is shown, for example, that the tax residual of Trentino and South Tyrol is greater than that of Veneto, that is, the difference between what citizens pay in terms of taxes and what they receive in terms of public benefits is higher in Trentino and South Tyrol than that of Veneto. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Maintained! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The difference is that in Trentino and South Tyrol they pay the Provinces and in Veneto they pay mainly the State. The accounts are accounts, I will send them to you with study and you will be able to realize that - I repeat - the fiscal residual in our territories is less than that of Lombardy but it is greater than in Veneto. This strange perception that the two self-governments of Trentino and South Tyrol are maintained by the rest of Italy must finally be debunked, because given the hand we receive nothing more than what we pour and what the other Regions of Italy receive. Given the hand, we can demonstrate this at any time and the agreement that is mentioned in the amendment and then in the corrective sub-amendment that our Group has tabled contains extra expenditure for our Provinces and additional competences. Simply, in our Provinces it is the Provinces that spend. I hope that the other territories of Italy will also be able to increase their competences and their autonomy because it is not our autonomy that must decrease: it is yours that must increase and Veneto will always have us at its side (I speak above all as political secretary of the Tyrolean Automanist Party) every time that it will claim greater competences and greater autonomy. On this we have always been consistent and will continue to be consistent. Italy will not solve its problems by taking away autonomy from those who have it, but by giving it to those who do not have it and I speak of responsible autonomy in which everyone has to account for the financial resources he receives, without discounts. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]] That same general interest our parliamentary delegation pursues it every day in this House, never backing back when it has to overcome the sense of responsibility, the general interest, the common good. A responsibility that we also manifest through the contribution that we try to bring in merit and content, especially thanks to the close relationship that we cultivate daily with our territories: all questions, expectations and needs that we believe concern not only the inhabitants of our Region but the whole of Italy. Let us think, for example, of bureaucracy and taxation, which all too often have a vexatory approach, of civil justice which too often seems to be more on the side of debtors than creditors. I had presented to the Commission some very specific agendas with proposals for simplification for a fairer tax and in particular an order of business around the reform of the preventive agreement, which all too often, instead of solving the problems of the creditor companies, has become a tool not to pay debts and make honest companies fail. I hope that the Government will be able to take this into account, although unfortunately they have not been approved for lack of time. We self-employed believe that the new year must serve to address these issues with ever greater determination, which are of vital importance because it is also and above all from here that Italy passes the possibility of coming out of the crisis and of starting again to look to the future as a horizon of trust. We self-employed, as we have done in recent years, are ready to do our part and we are doing it today, starting with our vote in favour of this law of stability. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u54	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand, but I cannot agree, the widespread appreciation for the marble rigidity of the government's economic policy. I understand why I know that in Italy it would not have been difficult to do even worse - expansive manoeuvres in deficits without structural reforms - but I do not agree, because without reforms our rigour on the public accounts, which does not change the quality of expenditure or the basis of the tax levy, ends up becoming a component of passive renegency to the decline, rather than a reaction to it. It may have the effect of postponing the most serious consequences, certainly not of overcoming the structural factors of difficulty. These are the words that Senator Morando, leader of the Democratic Party in the Budget Committee in the last legislature, sitting today in the benches of the Government with tasks of absolute importance in the field of the economic policy of the country, pronounced in December 2010, during the examination in the Commission of the law of stability. I have no difficulty, Mr Morando, in sharing your comments yesterday, adapting them to today's scenario. I do not want to make controversy because I believe that it is absolutely inappropriate and perhaps even useless for the condition of great difficulty in which the country is located. However, I will be allowed to make a few small remarks which probably relate more to the method of work than to merit. In this connection, Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to hand over the full version of my speech, which I would have been very pleased to explain, rather than reading, since I rarely read, making myself more pleased to speak, accompanied by notes and notations, in an attempt to express a thought, a proposal, a suggestion, a vision that is of help and encouragement to overcome this dramatic recession in which the country lives. The five minutes allocated to me are therefore not enough. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver your speech. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I feel a sense of pain - it will allow me - and I think you and all my colleagues will feel it too because, while the streets are inflamed by the discomfort and suffering of the Italians, we are consuming here, in a small group of few intimates, the painful, humiliating and mortifying theater of a policy that is now approaching - as in the last days of Pompeii - to decree the de profundis of a parliamentary democracy that has been offended for a long time now, because it is close to hold back the votes of trust and decree-laws. Even the Head of State observed this in a note of August 2012, saying that it was necessary to remedy the government's intrusive role on the parliamentary agenda: he did so in the margins of the comment of the 33rd vote of confidence that the Monti Government asked the Chambers and the reaction of the Head of State did not wait to defend the prerogatives of Parliament. The case is that even today, as it seems, in a few hours, will be asked to approve with confidence the law of stability, which is the law of programming, the law with which hope enters into the history of the country in reconstruction with respect to what seems like a pitch darkness, as well as when entering a tunnel with lights off. We respond to that state of need, to those squares, to those lost eyes and now deprived of the strength to be able to continue even to cultivate the sense of hope: with the Aule sguarnite, with five minutes given to expose a thought, with a compressed debate. Then I am told - I do not know if it is true - that the Conference of Leaders will bring us back next Monday to frame the electoral law. I am dismayed and humiliated by this policy, because this is an offense to the Tricolor. I would like to return on the 22nd, the 23rd, on December 24th, to be here at Christmas, but to try with you, turning our sleeves, to redesign the boundaries of a lost perimeter within which to build the word "hope". We must restore hope. What Christmas will we, elected in the name of the people, make by returning to our homes and territories? With what courage will we cross the suffering gaze of those who do not even know that the birth of the Child has arrived in the calendar? This is an absolutely unforgivable wound for a policy that must refound itself, if it wants to regain dignity. The problem, Madam President, is that Parliament no longer serves anything; it is a ratification body. The conversations from the living room that are made here, the contentions sometimes slipping towards a decline even inelegant for the sacredness of the role, no longer build an effectiveness. We come to this House without the rapporteur because there has been no time. But what's the time for? There's time to do something else. Then I believe that, if we do not recover the ethics of responsibility, if we do not recover the principle of ethics of politics, we will also betray that epitaph written behind you, Madam President, which signals an important step in the history of our democracy. There are many who have expressed in various ways, with protests in the streets, with statements, with letters, with the wish of drafting amendments entrusted to the Members, the sense of a renewed confidence in the function of Parliament. This isn't there. The benches are empty, those of the rapporteurs unleashed, those of the parliamentary groups unleashed. All we have to do is note that we are facing the worst moment of our democracy, where probably the most serious crisis in the country is not the economic crisis, but it is the value crisis that has absolutely dried up the value and the sense of the role of popular representation by confining it in an idle exercise of demagogy and populism, when not a role destined to make overnight the approval of amendments to satisfy the friend in turn who will finance the next election campaign. But I have the feeling, Madam President, that this music is over. [[Applause from the FI-PDL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Morando, the debate on the bill of stability which this House held in its committees, first, and then, in the Budget Committee, was thorough and useful, but above all immediately due once approved for millions of Italian families and businesses. As the President of the Budget Commission, Senator Azzollini (who I thank for the role he has played in these two weeks together with the rapporteurs Santini and Chiavaroli and the Government, in the people of Deputy Minister Morando and undersecretary Baretta), it is an expansionary and structural manoeuvre - it has been defined - that we know well - let us not hide behind the parliamentary procedures, colleagues - in the basic lines, already after the transition to the House and that we debate and want to approve today, after some substantial changes, in a very difficult situation. I am referring to an international context of recovery in the United States and to a European one that gets worse and worse, with falling indices, where there are still those who, rather than making serious and thoughtful analyses of the situation, propose varied solutions on the future of the abstract and out of reality Euro. This is a context that requires all European countries to double their efforts to promote and relaunch growth, to improve our competitiveness and supply capacity and to support stalled domestic demand, through a composite mix of structural measures that some of my colleagues have already mentioned and Mrs Zanoni, in particular, in the initial intervention. The improvements relate to the main funds introduced by this branch of Parliament: for work, growth, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and investment in the real economy. Among the issues that the Commission has addressed, I would like to mention three, very briefly, while I hope that other Members will address other important issues, such as the future of the employees of the Provinces of our country, while waiting to read the contents of the maxi amendment. I am referring in particular, on the one hand, to the refinancing (which was possible here in the Senate thanks to the availability of the Government and to amendments tabled in the same way by the Democratic Party, but also by other political forces) of the National Fund for Civil Service, for 50 million euros additional that will be able to give an important response to tens of thousands of young people in our country and that the House, on the other hand, had not been able to find an important response. The second issue concerns the so-called earthquake package for post-an earthquake reconstruction, which has obviously involved colleagues in the territory of L'Aquila, but which, as far as I am concerned, has to do with Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy, hit two and a half years ago by a very violent earthquake. The event hit a territory that produces 2% of the country's GDP for which tens and tens of thousands of businesses and thousands of families were affected in the most loved ones. Two and a half years later, after three financial maneuvers and three different governments, obviously we are still here trying to find concrete answers to give those territories some tools that can favor and support the reconstruction path that is giving good results. We are talking about eight out of ten families who have returned home and only a few hundred workers on the 40,000 initials. We are talking about almost 2,000 open yards, two thirds of which are already closed. Despite this, there is still a need for concrete answers. The Senate Budget Committee gave the green light, unanimously, to important measures contained in the amendments that we had proposed together with Mr Broglia of the Democratic Party and the rapporteur's amendment 2,9904, agreed with the Government, collected some of these main proposals that we had tabled in the earthquake package of Emilia-Romagna. It is, in particular, the allocation of €18 million of new resources, which are combined with €30 million from the Commissioner's special accounts, to support the extension of the payment of loans from the Municipalities of the seismic crater accesses with the Deposit and Loan Fund; it is also the exclusion from the Stability Pact of the donations that individuals have made to the Municipalities and the exemption from the payment of the IMU on the inactible buildings and the TASI for the first half of 2015. Alongside these concrete measures, however, the Government expressed a favourable opinion, gathering the contents of an amendment that I had tabled, to an agenda and expressing the political point that it placed, committing itself to establishing, in a next measure, by 2014, new urban free zones in the areas of the municipalities affected by the seismic events of 20 and 29 May 2012. This is within the meaning of Law No 296 of 2006, committing itself to act on the specific procedure that makes CIPE the reference for their establishment. It is a good result that we have achieved. Mr Tosato will forgive me if I stress this, but unlike him, I have been following this story for two and a half years: first as a local administrator and then as a senator. To succeed in achieving a similar goal, which also Senator Tosato and his colleagues in the League have certainly shared in our Commission, is to make available important and concrete measures to the benefit of the whole area affected by the earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012. It is not with the screams and the proclamations on the media, but only with the timely and joint work of all (local bodies, professional associations, parliamentarians and government) that the PD has carried out, that it is possible to achieve results useful for citizens and businesses so badly affected, not only by the economic crisis, but by as many as three natural disasters within two and a half years. We hope that this measure will be voted on as approved in the Commission and collected within the maxi amendment. In that maxi amendment will also contain the refinancing of that law for 40 million euros, of which we obviously hope to be able to benefit already from 2015. The third and last aspect that I want to mention concerns the refinancing of the fund for national emergencies for a total of 220 million, after the important choice made to the House and after the choice made by the Government with the establishment of the mission unit for the prevention of hydrogeological failure, which brings into play firm regional resources for an amount of two billion, alongside structural funds for a total of seven billion in the next seven years, and which collects, even only partially, political guidelines that the PD and other political forces had given. The last point concerns the agenda approved unanimously by the Commission, at the first signature of colleagues Caleo, Santini and Vattuone, which commits the Government to postpone the deadline of 22 December for the payment of taxes, taxes and social security and welfare contributions for citizens of municipalities affected by flooding events in recent months. This is an important commitment, which the Government has undertaken and with which we ask to be consistent quickly, with a specific act, able to respond to thousands of families and businesses affected by floods and businesses in our country. We need an immediate signal and we hope that the Government will be consistent with the commitments made in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u57	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u58	Madam President, I had decided to make a different speech but then, by chance, I happened to read a letter on almost all the media in Campania. I will bring back parts of this letter, written by two children, children of workers, who are well representing what is happening in this House. These guys say that Christmas has become a sad occasion for them. Their father is a worker; in fact, you can almost say a former worker, since he has been in the Social Security Fund for six years. They can no longer enroll in university, because parents, not earning even 800 euros a month, cannot have them studied. Why did I mention that letter? I did so because, in short, to define this a law of stability we must be courageous. But from people who think they're sending their young people to work at 15, I don't expect better. Madam President, I have always thought that our boys should be sent to school. I see, however, that, despite these demands, which I have made with a certain insistence, one pretends not to understand or, perhaps, does not want to understand. I said this because we have tabled amendments that are called common sense (because among the many phrases made in this House there is also that of common sense). An amendment asked the Government to find resources for 50 million euros for solidarity contracts, which could give so much to these causes, which are so many throughout Italy. This government, on the other hand - always by hearsay and according to what we read - wants to allocate these resources for the detaxation of productivity wages. That is EUR 208 million, Mr President. It is said that sometimes we use ugly phrases, but tell me which other adjective, in addition to "shaming" can be used to describe such a behavior. It will be because this is a battle of the real shadow minister of the government, of the real Sacconi Minister of Labour that you have in your majority, and I am truly sorry to say so. Similarly, I regret to say that it is being taken away from the regions of the South - and I come from a region of the Mezzogiorno and, therefore, I understand what it means - another billion euros for the budget of social cohesion. This government subtracts a billion euros for things that are essential for our South. And every day, President, we see new, embarrassing, hallucinating facts. The last one concerns the discovery in Basilicata, in a landfill, of nuclear waste whose origin is unknown. So to define, this is a law of stability, I do really struggle. I am also struggling because, since I read a lot, I happened to come to know a news, from a source culturally distant from me, according to which from studies made it emerges that companies would even be able to fire with the famous jobs act: in essence, with the combined measures under consideration with those provided for in the jobs act - as you call it - would be able to fire them, because they would save 6,000 euros per year, up to 19,000 euros in three years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have to say that I find it really embarrassing not only this situation - as I have repeated several times, and I will never tire of doing so - but also the fact that we are talking about things by word, abstract, and then punctually we find them after learning from the media. The news is almost always, indeed always, true and pretends nothing: it pretends not to understand; it pretends to go on so much to do, delegitimizing the role of politics. And we should be angry to let ourselves be treated in this way: I address everyone, the oppositions and the majority. Madam President, sometimes we get those sneaky and nasty messages that, if things don't go a certain way, we go to vote. There's a guy talking to you who's been working at the factory for 25 years. You must not be afraid to express your opinions because you must return to the old job. If the citizens no longer vote for me tomorrow, it will be natural for me to go back to work. It will be the most natural thing in this world and, indeed, me and the others should be proud to have represented the citizens in full transparency and with the abilities that each of us can put on the field, and then back to doing our job. It is not written anywhere that we must make Members for life. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] So, I'm really offended. I feel offended by these attitudes. I feel offended by the fact that we keep talking about innovative things. I feel offended that we continue to talk about the law of stability. This is not a law of stability: it is a law of instability, which paradoxically will stabilize precariousness and poverty in our country. The only thing that will do well is this. However, we continue - every one of us should assume responsibility, and in my opinion we are all guilty of this - to act like nothing. We keep pretending everything's normal and it's not. I repeat that the citizens, the people who are outside these buildings, show us every day, filling the squares, democratic and beautiful, who want more from this policy and expect more. And we, unfortunately, every day, not only continue to disappoint them, but continue not to respect their will. We cannot vote for this measure here, because we have the claim, although a small party, that we want to represent the citizens as we should, with all our limitations and weaknesses - let us call them that - we have the presumption of honesty that we really want to represent the citizens. I think that this should be part of each of us. It should be, of course, with different positions, the claim of all the Members present. But every day we realize that this is not the case and this can no longer be tolerated by us. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u59	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u60	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the first consideration is that the maneuver in our examination has an impact on almost zero GDP, considering that this is expected to be 0.1 in 2015, and then to increase to 0.2 in 2016. So, a little more than zero effect on economic growth. Nor does this benefit from the fundamental multiplier of public structural investment, which at this historic moment would have been appropriate to stimulate private investment. In fact, the government also cuts the co-financing of EU funds by one billion. But what we are discussing is above all an unfair maneuver for the way in which it redistributes the tax burden and for the way in which it allocates the few support to growth and innovation. Far from reducing the tax burden, the law of stability marks an increase in current expenditure which will have harmful effects on the economic policy choices of the years to come. Anyone who has been ruling since next year will register heavy mortgages on public accounts. Those 18 billion cuts at the taxes shouted by Renzi, in fact, will come back with interest starting from 2016. The only year in which something is given to Italians is 2015, but spending 6.5 billion in deficits. The level of the debt stock thus becomes the main concern for public finance, having reached 2,175 billion euros. Despite a favourable rate level, debt continues to weigh around 5% of GDP, but above all 10% of total expenditure. It removes resources from public investment. It is also a worrying factor because it affects the good repute of public debt vis-à-vis creditors. Of the 56 billion debts of the PA to the companies certified in December 2013, the Renzi Government has allocated 8.8 billion and paid 9.7, out of a total of payments of 32.5 billion at the end of October. This means that the State paid its debts to companies more during the Led Government, supported by Berlusconi, than the Renzi Government. The total expenditure will amount to 827 billion at the end of the year, marking a new historical record, to move to more than 848 billion in 2015. There are approximately 21.5 billions of current spending in 2015, which will exceed 30 in 2016. The presence of the numerous safeguard clauses creates, we repeat, a terrible mortgage on any future choice. Translated into common terms, they mean the possible increase in VAT from 22 to 25.5% and from 10 to 13%, the increase in excise duties, the reduction in deductions for medical, pharmaceutical, school expenses and so on. Let's remember, the clauses, because they are numbers with which we will face in the future: 17.8 billion in 2015, 27.2 in 2016 and just under 30 billion in 2017. On some of them the mortgage is safe, considering that also Bankitalia has expressed strong doubts about the recovery of tax evasion for 3.9 billion, as strong doubts concern the lacked savings of expenditure. There is a clear reversal of the trend compared to even the least work done by the Government immediately preceding, which had begun an important reconnaissance in the matter of revision of public expenditure. The Commissioner for spending has been cleared without any of the targets for cutting the expenditure he has identified being achieved. Reduce the expenditure of €18 billion for 2015, by €34 billion for 2016, these were the objectives, from which this law of stability is very far away. From this historical level of spending we return only by facing a serious plan of cuts in waste not only of the territorial authorities, who pay the greatest sacrifice in this law of stability and which will inevitably release cuts on the citizens, increasing the local taxation. We have seen how much public spending is and, allow me, the investigations that are underway these days, have also revealed the level of clientele and waste. So one thing this public finance maneuver teaches it: the level of state intervention in the economy is still enormous and therefore wide margins to cut. Therefore, in parallel with a serious and targeted reduction of the thousand streams, funds, missions and waste programmes, it is now inevitable to reduce the tax burden. When governing Forza Italia, VAT was 19 percent and savings taxes were 12.5 percent. As we know, VAT is now 22% and savings are now taxed at 26%. The level of alarm reached must therefore give serious consideration to the adoption of a single tax, flat tax. A tax that, through an articulated system of deductions, is able to guarantee the progressiveness provided for in Article 53 of the Constitution. We had in mind a different idea for this stability law, and we have put forward a number of proposals for modification, especially to protect small entrepreneurs, by proposing: raising the IRAP franchise in favour of small businesses, because we share the detaxation of the IRAP's work component; the possibility for workers to apply for TFR to employers in paid envelopes, but only with prior agreement between the parties, considering that small companies are still short of liquidity and taking away from them would still be detrimental, also knowing how many problems exist, at this time, in their relations with banks; the forecast to make the IMU totally deducible from corporate income, because it really represents an improper cost for companies; the compensation between commercial credits and tax, social security and welfare debts, to be activated on initiatives of the creditor against defaults of the individual regions, Provinces, entities, central government administrations; the extension to ten years of the repayment period of debts emerging from the so-called bonus notices of more than 30,000 euros; the application to payments made by electronic systems that are not penalised for use in terms of cash, and that do not penalised by the use of the commission in respect of this law. The few, very few results, which we obtained in the course of the examination in the Budget Committee, however, fail to improve the text in our examination, which retains a socialist approach and which certainly does not help to get Italy out of the crisis. On the contrary, never as in this historical moment would there be a need for a liberal turning point, a drastic reduction of every tax, especially of taxes on income from work, an energetic action, that will restart the real estate sector and that of the constructions, that is the flywheel of every economic restart and also of a struggle attentive to the bureaucracy, that is suffocating us. The calculations are not done in an accountantistic way, moving the mails from one side to the other with a great ammuna, as they say in Naples, but they are being built a courageous political project, that looks to the future and that prevents Italy from going down into a abyss, that the indicators are certifying and that is getting deeper and deeper. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u61	Senator Broglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u62	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, my speech will also be limited to one aspect of the financial maneuver, although I would like to thank the Government first, because I believe that having brought it - let us say this - half the budget to the House of Deputies and half the Senate has also allowed this House to discuss some issues in depth, as if we were at first reading: this is not a obvious fact, nor is it usual. I agree with that: it is certainly not the minority's fault if we have not finished our work in the Commission, but perhaps it is because of the too much importance of the measure and the too many measures contained in it, which have not allowed us to deepen all the problems. I start from the assumption and the conviction that everything we have voted in the Commission is contained in the maxi amendment that the Government will present, to which I ask to make some more reflections on two issues that we have not been able to tackle to the full, that is, that of the personnel of the Provinces and that of the cut to the Municipalities linked to the revenues of the TASI. I would like to draw attention to a very precise and punctual aspect which Senator Vaccari has already pointed out regarding the so-called earthquake package in Emilia. As I said in the Commission, I would like to see a start on how much resources we give to floods, earthquakes and natural disasters. Instead, I would like us to start talking about what we do with these resources and wonder what the resources we try to bring home every year for the damage caused by natural disasters or, at times, man's carelessness are for. In this respect, I greatly appreciated both the Undersecretary Baretta and Deputy Minister Morando, who, on the basis of two questions, shared the fact that we can no longer reach the financial maneuver in this way. We must agree, understand what is needed, especially in L'Aquila and Emilia Romagna, which are still in the process of rebuilding, and build that path so that the measures are not spotted, but are accompanied by a path in which, at last, Parliament as a whole is really beginning to implement the framework law on disasters. In fact, if the earthquake of L'Aquila had a series of problems and if the earthquake of Emilia Romagna had others and if we produced something like 500 orders of the commissioner, that represented a continuous legislation and its evolution, day after day, regarding the issues that we faced, at least that this has not been useless, but represents a job that can be made available to the country to build guidelines, that address in case of reconstruction. So, without talking about numbers, I like to talk about the things and three results that we have brought home in agreement with the Government, to which I care a lot, which are, in my opinion, all decisive: the exemption from local taxes (IMU and TASI) for all citizens who have the houses or the inaccessible sheds, which expired on 31 December 2014; the suspension, for a year again, of the loans that the Municipalities have with the Cassa depositi e loani, which compensates the Municipalities that have a lack of revenue. In fact, exempting citizens from those taxes means taking responsibility, as local authorities, for a lack of revenue; therefore, they were allowed to compensate for this lack of revenue, not to have to pay the installments of the derivative loans. The last result, which is no less important, is the recognition (although with a figure of EUR 5 million that will not be exhaustive) of another issue that we have denounced for years: donations of the population cannot be subject to the Stability Pact of the Municipalities; they are liberal payments, they are not taxation, they are not expected revenue. They're voluntary donations that even give the meter. Look, the Emilia earthquake has had huge damage over a vast radius. Suffice it to think about this fact: when last night we evaluated the exemption from the IMU for L'Aquila, the Ministry of Economy and Finance estimated it in 500,000 euros, while for Emilia it estimated in 26 million euros. This should give the sign of the two different damage, from the productive point of view, that these earthquakes have produced. I say this in order to make it clear that, together with the huge resources that these territories need, together with Europe, which gave for the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna 670 million liquidity to cope with the emergency, the donation funds were not drops in the middle of the sea, but of the real very important revenue, which contributed not only to reconstruction, but also to the quality of reconstruction. We have provided for the exemption for the IMU and TASI until 30 June, but with a very strict commitment on an agenda, accepted by the Government, to be able to carry it until the end of the year. In addition, as my colleague Mr Vaccari has said, there has been a very serious path to the start not of the "no tax area," which has never been our flag, but of a recognition of the urban free zones, which for us are the historic centers, the souls of those countries hit by the earthquake that need a more facilitated relaunch in order to resume normal productive activity. The hope I make is that we will not be able to discuss these matters again next year because we will have resolved them sooner. And a wish to the Government, with a final joke: in 2012, in 2013 and 2014 we had three financial and three governments; I hope that it is this Government that makes, for once, for two years in a row the financial that also concerns our territories. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u63	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u64	Madam President, you were elected senator in the Democratic Party. I remember, then, that on February 3, 2013, in the middle of the election campaign, his party secretary announced publicly and vehemently: never again a pardon; let's re-introduce the false into the budget. Well, it's been two years and the fake in the budget is still decriminalized, while the Democratic Party, in this law of stability, extends the list of hateful gambling pardons. After Letta's at the slot machines, Renzi's arrives at the betting rooms that work in black. Among other things, they are doubly hateful condones, because they once again mortify the honest and because they benefit the best political partners, the gambling lobby, which impoverish families and fund parties. The Democratic Party is responsible for this, because it is the Government that submits the amendment and the delegation to gambling is attributed to the secretary Baretta, Venetian, Catholic and, precisely, PD. What exactly do you propose? The subjects who collect bets by connecting with foreign bookmakers, who have exercised so far without an Italian license and disconnected from the Monopoly detection system, can settle up until 2016 by anticipating 10,000 euros, which will then scale as soon as they start paying taxes. What about the past? For years no longer subject to investigation, who gave gave and who had had. For the last few years, however, they can pay their dues with a 33% discount, without paying penalties and interest. Let's go tell our entrepreneurs who've been bullied by Equitalia and see what happens. I don't know if you're kidding. The commander of the Guardia di Finanza, General Capolupo, said this: there are 6,000 illegal betting points, with a 2 billion escape round, often crossed with the underworld and money laundering. Do not tell us that in this way you bring out the black; you know very well who they are and where they operate. The incumbents had already denounced unfair competition and registered 4,000 points as early as 2012. We want very strict anti-corruption rules against self-recycling and fake money in the budget. (17.58) (Following ENDRIZZI). What happened to President Grasso's bill, which was also elected to the PD's files? I'll tell you what, Madam President. It seems that a private agreement between Renzi and Berlusconi provides for a new structure of the Parliament that follows the design of the P2: an electoral law that rounds off an alternation of government between the two members of the single party. The agreement on the new President of the Republic and, in fact, a handbrake on anti-corruption is now also emerging. Do you understand what's going on? Council President Matteo Renzi asks Europe for room for manoeuvre on deficit and public debt, while the Secretary of the Democratic Party Matteo Renzi restrains anti-corruption, self-recycling, conflict of interest and fake in the budget. It wants the freedom to charge us with other debts, without giving guarantees to Europe and the Italian citizens that this money - I say to you, Madam President, who knows Rome well - is really destined to productive investments and not to the pigsty that has been discovered with Mafia Capitale. But the list of gambling favors doesn't end here. (17.59) (Following ENDRIZZI). The Government is already concerned about the renewal of the concession for the lot, but it expires in 2016. What's the hurry? Perhaps because we are going to vote in the spring and we need to secure certain business. The Government writes that this is done to ensure the protection of public interests. But it would be public interest to increase competition, not restrict the field to companies that have already managed the sector. Public interest would limit to the maximum the easy earnings of private dealers. Instead, the winner, in addition to the collection of the games, is guaranteed to be able to use the network for a quantity of paid services; it guarantees an adjustment, i.e. the profit margin, of 6 percent, when it is now 3.73 percent. Why? What's the logic? We still remember when the expedited renewal of the concession carried out in 2004 caused an erarial damage, just because theaggio was inopportunely applied to the 6 percent and only later reported to a more decent level. The Court of Auditors has established that 600 million have been lost in just four years: here the auction base for the whole package, which lasts nine years, is set at only 700 million. Gentlemen, it smells here. But more than opening the windows, we should open our eyes! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u65	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u66	Madam President, we have been examining the fourth law of stability since, in November 2011, the last democratically elected government by Italian citizens was shot down by a palace conspiracy. This bill continues the series of profoundly inadequate and misguided economic policy choices made over the last three years. Italy of entrepreneurs submerged by taxes, factories forced to close, fathers of families without more employment, young people forced to emigrate to find work and families reduced to poverty expected more by this law of stability. He expected from the Government of the slogans measures to revive domestic demand, to stimulate the recovery of consumption. He expected the opportunity to enter the world of work through real incentives. He expected support for businesses. He expected less taxes on the house. Instead the Italians will find a budget law that illusoryly with one hand seems to give, while with the other removes. What is covered by this EUR 36 billion manoeuvre is not yet clear, not even to the benevolent and indulgent European Commission, with which the reckoning is postponed until March. The coverage is entrusted to increases in taxation and to what will be obtained from the spending review, of which, after the resignation of Cottarelli, it has lost track: it is exhausted with the reduction of the blue cars. It is certain that there will be a further increase in the tax burden and that the so-called safeguard clauses will necessarily trigger, with the increase in VAT, excise duties and indirect taxes. Our country, Mr. Deputy Minister, is inexorably impoverishing. The basic economic parameters that you have achieved over the years speak clearly: they are a war bulletin. GDP continues to fall for the third consecutive year: -2,4 in 2012, -1,9 in 2013 and -0,5 in 2014 if all goes well. Public debt has skyrocketed to 2,157 billion: in less than three years you have increased it by more than 250 billion (plus 23.5 billion in October alone) despite the sacrifices that have been demanded from Italians. The debt ratio has risen from 116.4% to 132.5 percent. The budget balance provided for by Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012, you moved it from 2013 to 2017. From January to October of this year alone, 11,000 companies have been declared bankrupt and more than 45,000 have been put into liquidation. In the fields of trade and tourism, between January and December, 91,975 companies closed their business. In three years you have managed to increase unemployment by 43%, from 9.2% in 2011 to 13.2% according to the latest survey, and at the end of the year we will be 14%. Youth unemployment is becoming a social scourge, rising from 31.8 to 43.3 percent. Dear Deputy Minister, the incentive for new recruits provided for by this maneuver comes too late and is completely inadequate. Who do you want me to hire? To assume you have to have orders and orders you have if the price of the products turns out to be competitive. This law of stability is without any perspective, it proposes insufficient and inadequate interventions to solve problems. In order to curb public debt, growth must be restarted. We need to invest in innovation and research, in infrastructure, in broadband, in school, in technologies that can most activate development processes. You even cut the tax credit measure for companies investing in research from 50% to 25%. The European Commission classifies Italy as a moderate innovator, as Greece and Hungary. Italy in 2008, Mr Deputy Minister, based on the documents you provided to the Budget Commission, invested €4,092 million in research and innovation, today invests 2,818, 0.17% of GDP: a misery. There are about 110,000 researchers in Italy: too few. The best brains migrate abroad to avoid humiliation and hunger. What results do you plan to achieve if you do the opposite of what you need? It is a real madness to spend 130,000 euros to graduate our boys and then keep them at home in front of a computer because the world of work does not welcome them, being saturated with over 65 years tired and without enthusiasm. It is also for these reasons that GDP falls. It is clear that the huge public debt limits investment in research, but it is beyond doubt that it will continue to increase in the coming years, also thanks to this law of stability without cover and far-sighted and appropriate choices. The government's strategy is clear: to make a living. On the one hand, to associate their faces with the infamous 80 euros in paychecks, thus ensuring a broad media and electoral consensus in view of the upcoming May elections, and on the other hand to discharge the task of doing the dirty work on the territorial authorities. Municipalities, Provinces and Regions are vexed by 7 billion fewer transfers and will be forced to cut on the health system, on the transport system, on that of assistance to disadvantaged people, to impose local tax, to charge the IMU on the agricultural land of the mountain areas. In my opinion, you are on a completely wrong path. The state will spend more than expected 848 billion, which is already a record, and it will take less than expected and you will be forced, after the May elections, to put in place austerity measures much heavier than those provided for in this law. Keep it up. Whatever you want, you're used to it. The important thing is that you assume your responsibilities in front of the country when you are called to respond to the disaster that you have caused in recent years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u67	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u68	Madam President, fellow senators and fellow senators, the country is waiting for a breakthrough to bring our economic system back to competition in the international context. The recent Update Note predicted modest growth for next year and a more sustained rate of growth until 2018, growth possible only through the adoption of a set of expansionary measures to support demand and incomes. The law of stability goes in this direction in a decisive way, with an expansive maneuver supported by a substantial cut in expenditure and in compliance with the strict constraints of stability of the public accounts. An important role in the growth process is played by the value of Italian exports and foreign sales, which are confirmed as driving force of Made in Italy and this thanks also to the presence of many of us who live abroad. The law of stability therefore cannot fail to take Italians into account in the world and, closely linked to this, the process of internationalization of Italian products and services. Very often these two themes are not associated and I think it is a big mistake. Our fellow countrymen abroad have been, and in many ways continue to be the pioneers of the diffusion of Italian products and services. They are the de facto ambassadors of Made in Italy. Ignoring this reality, not using this competitive advantage of considerable importance would be a big mistake for the Italian economy. The teaching of the Italian language and the promotion of cultural activities are much more effective means to promote interests in Italy and in Made in Italy of expensive advertising campaigns and - let me say - sterile offices, often of luxury and very expensive, full of equally expensive Italian officials who work there. That's why I think adding to this chapter of spending resources for the culture and teaching of Italian language abroad, not only satisfies the desire of those abroad - like me - love Italy, but also represents an investment that can increase the demand for Made in Italy and generate interest in our country as a tourist destination. Of course, much more could also be done in other areas. It is true that resources are limited, but when in a company in crisis, Mr. Deputy Minister, you have to choose how to use the few resources available, you always choose the activities that produce the best results. As far as we are concerned, these must include the promotion of Italy as a tourist destination and the increase in demand for products and services made in Italy. Both these objectives can be achieved with some ease: the great Italian environmental and cultural heritage, the quality and fantasy of Made in Italy make the task much easier. The problem is not how to sell, but how to get made in Italy abroad and how to generate interest in our country. For this reason I think that the few resources available should be devoted to teaching the Italian language abroad, to promoting cultural activities, to the assistance of small and medium-sized Italian companies that produce the best of Made in Italy in the process of internationalization, first in Italy and then in foreign countries. However, it must not be a question of rain interventions, Mr Vice-Minister, but of interventions linked to a logic of performance criteria, which are assigned on the basis of the results achieved. The law of stability could also solve - we hope - the long-standing problem of VAT refunds recognized and due, on the basis of numerous judgments handed down by the Italian courts, to tourist companies operating in non-European countries. If these companies that are in a serious financial situation had to close down, or turn to markets that are more favourable to them, it would be only the Italian economy to lose: think that only one operator in Australia sends more than 45,000 people a year to Italy. In conclusion, I think that the Government must change direction and give a strong signal, investing in activities that involve citizens living abroad, also to promote the Italian economy. The Government cannot help but include in the maxi amendment the proposals that we elected senators abroad have made for the teaching of the Italian language, for the promotion of cultural activities, for the support of the Chambers of Commerce and the process of internationalization of small and medium-sized enterprises and to facilitate the work of tourist agencies. These resources, Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, will not be expenditure, but an investment that can contribute to the recovery of our economy. Finally, I think, and I really finish, that from tomorrow the Government must evaluate with attention and constant criticality the results that derive from the use of the resources destined to the agencies in charge of the promotion of the internationalization of the made in Italy, intervening immediately to ensure the most effective and efficient use of it. What I can assure you, living abroad, is that we will carefully monitor the results achieved. [[Applause from Senator Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u69	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of stability that we are examining is light years away from what I would like. In what one would like to be a social state, welfare, assistance to the weakest, to the poor, interventions for social inclusion remain proclamations of the government that do not find space, or find it only hard, among the measures contained in this law. There is a lack of a courageous overall vision that will get us out of the recession that we are experiencing. No more linear and senseless cuts. It is enough for buffers, temporary, emergency interventions, driven by compassionate logics rather than by the taking over of a problem and the search for long-term solutions. But is it possible that you can't do more? I don't see any industrial plans, I don't see marketing, I just see branding. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Council.]] It is a move without any structural intervention, covered by alleged cuts in expenditure which, if not implemented, will trigger the so-called safeguard clauses, which provide for an increase in VAT to 25.5% and a substantial increase in excise duty on petrol. This maneuver in some cases deludes (but it would be better to say mock) the worker, as in the case where he is granted the right to obtain monthly for three years from next January a share of acquired TFR, but taxed at a higher rate. Is it just a trick to provide the state with immediate revenue or will it risk compromising pension funds and supplementary pensions? The higher income resulting from the advance of part of the FRT will increase the ISEE level of the worker, thus reducing the benefits for the family: from school canteens, to university fees, to kindergartens. It's a trap. This is certainly not a measure that will restart the economy; on the contrary, it is also a risky financial operation for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have to rely on one less source of credit and will most likely be forced to ask for funding and to borrow in order to meet the demands of the workers, always for the benefit of the banks. Another propaganda and non-solving provision contained in the Stability Act is the baby bonus, for which €202 million was allocated for 2015, €607 million for 2016 and €1.012 million for 2017: €1,800 million for the next three years. How many popular homes and kindergartens could we build with these resources? Let us not forget that in Italy today 6 million poor live, according to ISTAT data, including 1.5 million children, forced to turn to the canteens of charity to have a hot dish. Who's the populist here? The number of those who fail to buy goods and services to lead a dignified life is increasing and especially worsens the condition of families with four, five or more members. They don't need a baby bonus, nor a social card, let alone the advance of the TFR in paycheck, or the famous 80 euros: they need basic necessities. Do you have any idea how many Italians have seen themselves cutting the light and removing the heat in recent months? But the government in this law of stability had forgotten even to allocate resources to the National Fund for the most deprived. With an amendment to the Senate budget committee, EUR 8 million was found, but last year it was EUR 10 million; but how do the poor increase and the resources decrease? What are the criteria? The logic guys? Renzi, don't charm me, I value you from the facts and here you fail. The responses offered by the Government for social inclusion remain late and insufficient. Thanks to an amendment adopted in the Commission (I do not know if it is included in the maxi amendment because no one has seen it) IAIL has been given powers in the field of the reintegration and integration of people with disabilities from work, but it would also be necessary to carry out a cognitive survey to see if and how the legislation on the integration of disabled people into the world of work is implemented. I have submitted this proposal to the Senate Commission for months, but I have never received an answer. The issue of social inclusion, which we particularly care about, does not seem to be one of the priorities of this Government's agenda. Let us not forget the cold shower that Prime Minister Renzi had reserved for ALS patients and disabled people in general, with the famous cut of EUR 100 million to the Non-Sufficiencies Fund and EUR 17 million to the Social Policy Fund. After the protests of disabled people's associations and thanks to the stubbornness of many parliamentarians, resources have been found for ALS, but not those removed from the Social Policy Fund, necessary to ensure the inclusion of people in difficulties, such as the disabled, the elderly and drug addicts. The government must understand that spending in these areas is actually a saving for the state. This is our idea of welfare. The fundamental problem is not to allocate new resources, but to manage them differently, with greater rigour and transparency. In the field of immigration, we have tabled an amendment and an agenda which require that both the destination and the management of the resources allocated to deal with this emergency be subject to the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior. Migrants who escape the lands of origin marked by wars and massacres, arrived in Italy, rather than receiving adequate reception find those who speculate on their skin. The judiciary's investigations are bringing out many dark sides in the management of the immigration emergency. On such a sensitive issue a serious control action by the Government is needed. Another area that requires more central control is that of contracts on public administration derivatives. On this subject we have tabled both an amendment and an agenda, to census all the derivatives signed by central government and local authorities, classifying them according to the typology and indicating the financial institutions involved in the transactions, including involving CONSOB in the verification action on contracts concluded. These are my proposals; this is your rag paper. These are my proposals, reasonable and covered; these are your answers. A change of course is necessary and urgent. While large finance plays with computers, translating gambling into derived and fermenting financial products on the shoulders of people and municipal administrations, businesses have to deal with the integration fund and unemployment and local authorities with new emergencies. Courageous political choices are needed, not linear cuts, which only harm virtuous realities. While smiling plutocrats are getting rich all the time, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, now on the verge of extinction, now seen as the dodo, cannot reach the end of the month or pay tax contributions in time. Families are overwhelmed by the hope of redemption of the utopia of gambling, present everywhere, on which the state cashes, ignoring its long-term catastrophic consequences. The ratio of minimum and maximum salaries has now reached unpronounceable figures. Article 54 of the Constitution comes without delay after 53. Fidelity to the Republic and the duty to respect the laws (as expressed in Article 54, of which the second part is already daily outraged) falters in the face of the iniquities committed in contempt of Article 53. We have never heard the word "patrimonial," but we have heard very much the words "Article 18" which, in order to remain on the subject of the Constitution, mock the right expressed in Article 1. We have never heard anything about 8 per thousand, but we have been denied interventions in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the benefit of banks that make unacceptable profits on POS transactions. Dear President Renzi, you gave the blow of grace to what was left of a disunited, fragmented and obsolete left, but you broke the only car you had and you got on a horse that has another knight: the right! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u71	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Senator Santini, Deputy Minister Morando and Senator Azzollini because, even if this year (as in the past year) we do not arrive in the Chamber with the rapporteur, in fact there is no responsibility, neither of the appointed rapporteur, Senator Santini, nor of the Deputy Minister Morando, much less of the President of the Commission Azzollini. The truth is that this mechanism of stability law, despite the change of name, has not changed much what happened with the famous financial laws. Above all, then, the fact that the provision arrived in the Senate only fifteen days ago (given the enormous congery of norms it contains and that it contained the House text, plus those that were added in the Senate debate) did not allow the longer necessary time to be fully examined. However, we had reached the conclusion, but then, unfortunately, the time trap forced us to arrive in the Chamber without a rapporteur. This does not detract from the value of Senator Santini, President Azzolini and Deputy Minister Morando, who followed the debate with great attention and punctuality. Once again the Government will raise the question of trust; it will certainly have the confidence of Parliament, because the forces that support the Government cannot allow any false step, but it will not have the confidence of many Italians, I would say of almost the totality of Italians. It will certainly not have the confidence of the citizens of Southern Italy, snatched of 4 billion funds, of which 3,5 billion reserved for development and cohesion, by decision of the previous Government, of the minister Barca and - then - of Minister Trigilia, snatched in a traumatic way, because with a trap put to 30 September 2014, all the projects that were already in itinere are blocked. In addition to the loss for the failure to realize these projects, who will compensate those municipalities that had already spent, and also much, in order to advance this design? Who will compensate the Regions of South Italy (Sardinia, Sicily, Calabria, Apulia, Campania, Molise and Abruzzo), involved in this trap aimed at financing the initiative, certainly commendable, of the total decontribution of new recruits, but throughout the national territory? In vain we tried to convince the Government that this practice represented a net transfer of resources from South Italy to the rest of the country, and mainly to that part of the country that can still allow itself to be hired indefinitely. In so many years of parliamentary experience, and also in the Budget Committee, I had never seen such an anti-merdionist law as this: with this transfer of funds and the penalization of the most important economic activities of the South of Italy. Agriculture is being massacred by this law and this government will certainly not have the confidence of farmers, with this law of stability. It was not intended to recover the IMU of agricultural land (350 million additional tax increase). With a diabolical mechanism, the government says that farmers must pay the agricultural IMU and immediately recover it by cutting the municipalities, requiring them to activate the procedures for collecting this tax, thus putting in difficulty especially those municipalities where we know there is a high rate of tax evasion. The municipalities naturally protest, but they certainly do not protest the ANCI; they protest the small municipalities, who do not know how to close the budgets, while the ANCI has its privileged and direct relationship with the Government, perhaps also for political reasons. So all this passes, if not in cavalry, on the shoulders of the farmers and on the shoulders of the small municipalities. Once again, farmers will suffer from a cut in the percentage of reduced agricultural gas oil; and for this, of course, no one is responsible for it. A minimum of possibilities for using the recruitment bonus have been recovered, but, as a matter of fact, for farmers, the coverage for this bonus is within the Ministry's own funding. The resources are removed from the laws for the encouragement of the young agricultural enterprise, while, when we talk about other sectors (for charity, all worthy of attention), we immediately identify other resources. Woe to finance employment incentives in the manufacturing and industrial sectors with funds from industry and manufacturing! They go to search in the Southern Regions. This law of stability, as I said earlier, further widens the gap between the South and the North. I have written a note to all my fellow senators elected in those Regions, hoping that there will be a whisper of pride on the part of my colleagues elected in the Regions who have suffered this resounding trap. I hope that they will not vote, even by not taking part in the vote, on this law of stability; that they will thus demonstrate their dissent from an initiative of the Government that is not tolerable. The Regions naturally protest little, because also in the Regions, even in our territorial origin, the party lines prevail more, the subordinations to the Roman secretariats, rather than the interests of the territory and the citizens who elect us. I do not know how much more people will be willing to vote for themselves if we do not firmly oppose this kind of situation. Moreover, in addition to the farmers will mourn the tour operators, who will have no confidence in this Government, because they are deprived of the power to use in their main employment contract (which is that of seasonality) the contributory reductions provided, instead, for permanent work. Even there, in vain, we urged the government to intervene. I could list endless categories of citizens who will not vote for this government. I quote the owners of real estate, once again not facilitated by taxation. If it is true that a rule says that the Municipalities - of course it is always the Municipalities and others, and not the Government, to assume their responsibilities, even economic ones - cannot increase TARI and TASI, in fact the increase will be there. If the deduction fund of the municipalities has been removed, it is clear that, while maintaining the formal numerical rate in those values, they will only be able to impose new taxes on those who have benefited from tax deductions. Therefore, the real estate assets of Italians, especially with regard to the first houses, will once again collapse, as the Banca Italia told us in its latest report on the assets of citizens. Therefore, we face the problems of the future of Italy with old systems, with a law of stability that now has the connotations of the old financial laws and above all with the lack of new initiatives. We said we had to reduce taxes. As soon as, however, Europe gave a cough, the first to be cut was the Tax Reduction Fund: 3.3 billion were removed and another 500 million - as I initially said - were removed from co-financing for the southern regions, which, among other things, fueled a greater volume of investment. But then, for example, there are still 110 million extraordinary contributions to Roma Capitale. Madam President, I believe that this really is a time when things like this should not happen; at least we should go ahead before we proceed, once again, to increase the extraordinary ceiling of capital, which has reached over 500 million per annum. I really believe that we will have an overall distrust, as parliamentarians, not so much as a political part, because we have firmly opposed each other, with a long debate and using all the means available to us, to the snatch of the southern regions, to the financing in rain, to the lack of economic strategy (and the latter, in the end, condenses into some singular things). The only ones to be the subject of attention in this measure are, as always, the oilmakers, who always have the paved road and facilities. The Government has, even, made a classic and resounding autogol when it has introduced the proposal to increase the canons of the marine and terrestrial state property, where the oilmakers have their settlements. Imagine, Madam President, a square kilometre which, for those who have agricultural practice, as many rustics of us have, means 100 hectares of land, as a state property canon costs oil companies (both land and sea) 100 euros. This is the cost envisaged by the Government in its proposal, which then withdrew, having put on the table us the possibility of a significant increase of these canons, which would have represented a resounding and useful coverage of many other useful initiatives that the Government could put on the field; but it refused it: in order not to increase a scandalous situation of privilege vis-à-vis oil companies, it preferred to put aside the question of canons. I hope that you will come back to this in the next few hours at the Council of Ministers, because these are tariffs which have been in force since 1996. The proposal that came from the great Ministry of Economic Development was only the transformation from lire into euros, because in 1996 there were still lire, without any sensitive, due and due increase. A whole series of inconsistencies will lead us, therefore, with great conviction - I repeat - apart from the political position, to vote no to the confidence of this law of stability. Above all it will be a distrust voted with their hearts by Italian citizens, once again penalized by the forecasts of this law, once again deprived of a strategic objective of economic recovery of the country. I am referring in particular to the citizens of Southern Italy, who are still forced to be divided from the rest of the country. When someone says that there are political forces that propose secession, he should instead consider the effects of the concrete acts he performs. These are laws that push for secession, but not so much for a once rich North that wanted to leave the South less rich than him, but for an exasperated South that can no longer tolerate a policy of discrimination in these terms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u73	Madam President, this maneuver has a traditional and innovative aspect. On the traditional aspect I go very quickly because I think we can clearly say that this maneuver fits in with all those who from 2012 onwards had to take charge of the effects of the choices that, from 2008 to 2011, have brought the country under these conditions. We know from which choices those maneuvers derive and who made those choices and we know how the country was handed over to us: in the grip of a deep crisis and absolutely disastrous macroeconomic data. In this sense, the current maneuver continues to recover what it can in the field of savings in public administrations, tries to work to avoid increasing debt beyond measure, and tries to stay within the numbers given by the European Union relative to our country. However, it also presents innovative elements. Many, in fact, may be the criticism of this maneuver, but it certainly does not have the defect of indecision. Indeed, if the maxi amendment - and I am sure of that because these were the assurances of the Government - confirms the structure of the maneuver discussed in the Commission, it will certainly be expansive and ambitious. Expanding because, as we know, the great figures proposed in the maneuver are the result of the precise choice to use to the full the spaces of expansion possible to the given rules, without forcing, and therefore of the precise choice to act within a negotiation with the European Commission that has not seen Italy neither perish nor exceed in its spaces; and the Senate has confirmed this approach. It is an expansive maneuver, but it also insists on certain fundamental choices that can be explained. I'll say three of them. Firstly, it is a maneuver that reduces the tax wedge to support demand, and in this direction there are a number of actions that strengthen this objective. It still intervenes in support of demand through an innovative tool, the baby bonus, which helps the family system and supports the birth rate in a country that is the oldest in Europe and has the oldest Regions in the world. Thirdly, it lays down the conditions for capturing a foreign effect to our work, but that can certainly be of great effectiveness in a country like ours, that is to say the increase of the resources available in families and citizens due to the reduction of the price of oil. The combination of these three measures, on clearly defined levels, can lead to an increase in the availability of economic resources, which can go mostly in consumption and to a lesser extent in savings and, in any case, trigger a virtuous circuit of confidence in the future and reassurance. But it is also an ambitious maneuver - and this is the second key word - because it brings together reforms and resources that are necessary for reforms to be credible. The reforms I am referring to are certainly the one on work, just launched, and the one on school, on which much work is being done and commitments have been made even before the European Union decided to confirm the inadequacy of a precarious system in school. They are necessary resources to make those reforms credible, just as it is necessary, to make them credible, the time factor. Indeed, if there is one thing that Europe has been clear about, it is that in three months' time we will certainly have to respond to the law of stability and its connection with the reforms, ensuring that the reforms and the resources dedicated to them are true, effective and make them not only announced but already operational reforms. I am convinced that the conditions are there, so that these reforms become operational and that this law of stability is at the service of these reforms, but we also know that much of the work before us depends on what Europe will do, because without Europe the recovery of this country cannot be based solely on the actions we will be doing. We know how disappointing it was for us to start the Juncker Plan, in its initial description, but we also know that Europe lives on soft power, on the ability to negotiate, on being careful to put together all the resources and sensitivities, that is, everything about the form in which states and peoples have chosen to be together. That is why it is right to give a judgment on the Juncker plan, but also to point out that Italy must commit itself to becoming the starting point of an instrument that will share investment across Europe and can become the basis of an advanced system of conjugation of investments in the European system. This maneuver - and I move on to the second point of my speech, before the conclusions - entered the Senate in a way, offering an initial picture, and comes out with interventions that go in two directions: on the one hand they strengthen some choices made in the Chamber of Deputies and, on the other hand, they rebalance the effects of other choices always made in the other branch of Parliament. In view of the many measures to support enterprise, competitiveness and intelligence - I am thinking of the tax credit for research and development and the patent box - contained in the maneuver proposed by the Government and some investments in innovation, today we see a reinforced maneuver in the direction of rebalancing, which is the direction of the march that guided the work of our Group and that of the opposition senators present in the Commission, whom I would like to thank, who have behaved constantly in a correct way, contributing to the construction of this sense of civil, social and economic rebalancing of the maneuver, as the President of the Commission has acknowledged. It is in fact a rebalancing the completion of the work started in the Chamber on the bonus of 80 euros, paid and in some way targeted on the self-employed. The measures on the subject of pension funds and the social security structures of self-employed persons and also the choices made on the health and social front, starting with the refinancing of the fund provided for in Law No 68 of 1999. There are important complements to the interventions on some issues, such as the fundamental one, of the patronage and that of investments; on internationalization not everything has been collected, but it is important what has been done; and some choices taken as guidelines in the final phase of the Commission's work in the Senate are also important: I am thinking of the issue of the rebalancing on the topic of diesel oil for mountain areas and for the geographically disadvantaged territories and that of schools in the Provinces, and I am also thinking - I say this with conviction - of the work done with small reforms or with the support of reforms in the field of agriculture, where simplification has been done in some fields and also of innovative work, such as that on the dairy fund. In this regard I make a recommendation to the representative of the Government and, through him, to the Minister of Agriculture. That fund is important for the dairy sector, which in a country like France is considered strategic, whereas we consider it marginal, a sector that is not only composed of cattle, but also of the vast wealth of experience and skills, and also of animals, which especially in the Mezzogiorno, from Tuscany down, is represented by sheep and goat, whose fruits represent excellences, with which we can compete in Europe: in my opinion it is enlarged. A positive signal is the delicate reformer shift on the subject of the balanced budget of the Regions. It is a decisive step to make the whole system of public administration and public administration accounting more transparent and more comprehensible. I would like to conclude by focusing on two issues. I share the fact that there has been - and the President has pointed out this delicately - a predominant role of the Government in relation to the Commission. This must not be the case. The Commission must work harder. It is right that Parliament should express its powers and resources and not be too narrow in this respect. On the subject of the Mezzogiorno, however, my colleague, Mr D'Ali, is right, who has honestly led the battle in the Commission. But it is also true that it always happens, at the beginning of the seventh anniversary of European programming, that the resources set aside are being taken away; it happened seven years ago with the Berlusconi Government for the Alitalia issue, and they were funds of the Mezzogiorno. I could make a list of initiatives that saw those funds go to issues that had nothing to do with the Mezzogiorno. It is also true that it must be respected - and the Government's commitment to this must be recalled here - that those funds must return to the resources for the Mezzogiorno. I am concerned, however, that the great revolution, initiated two years ago by the then Minister of Regional Affairs Delrio, who had somehow chosen a way of accompaniment to the regions of the Mezzogiorno with respect to the design and better use of European funds, does not yet have a concreteness: those funds can be moved because the projects are not yet there. On this front we certainly need something more in the work that was set up a year ago for its concrete realization. It touches me, but I do it because I think it is a duty, to recall a final theme, which concerns my region, my island. I say this because it is right that Parliament should know this and should remember Parliament. With this law of stability, for the first time, one year after the flood in Sardinia, which killed 18 people and hit 88 municipalities out of 370, the first resources are finally made available. It is €15 million: €10 million for the start of damages and €5 million to complete the restructuring of schools destroyed by the flood. I mean that it's 15 million euros compared to 664 million euros certified by Civil Protection: 15 million out of 664. We can take this as a signal, but it must be a signal to which a concrete commitment by the Government follows so that, at least, compensation for civilian victims and businesses can share and give some confidence that unfortunately has not been possible in this year. In fact, the initiatives that Parliament has also put in place have not been successful and have not been completed. I say this because I am convinced that we are in a country that recognizes all its citizens and all its territories as equal and I am convinced that in the next measures the Government will not fail to keep in mind this aspect and, therefore, to resume the path started in January last year and not yet completed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u74	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u75	Madam President, let us imagine a meeting of Ministers on Thursday before all the amendments arrived. I imagine, in a room, the President of the Council in the middle and all his ministers around singing a song to him, which could be this (Intondo un motivo musicale) : President, we're with you. Fortunately, the Senate is here. [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] This little song is beautiful, because it makes us understand that the Ministers have brought to the attention of the law of stability as many as 80 amendments, on a law that they had already approved in the House. So the senate serves? That's a good question. Maybe the Senate serves? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If the Senate is needed, at least you are inconsistent; but this is trivial: the fact that you are inconsistent is an acclaimed thing. And if you make all this confusion, if the Ministers bring the amendments, the Government signs them, the Government itself takes them to the Commissions and, casually, the Senators of the majority (not only, but mainly the Senators of the majority) present a mountain, an avalanche of amendments, once again the centralization of power is clear. So we are in a strange situation, as always, in which the government commands and parliamentarians do nothing. But if you need the Senate to change it again, then here too we are in contradiction, it is an oxymoron, because you use the fact that you have the Senate to change what you do in the House, but don't give the senators the chance to do anything. Then perhaps Silvio Berlusconi was right, when he said that it was enough for the Leaders to vote: I think there are some assonances and the song reminds us. But what's in this financial? Lots of things. There are some amendments tabled by the Government which have their first and last names. There's one called "Total." If you want, we can use the name "Total" either as a first name or as a last name: "Total Total". [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When you enter into the law that we make strategic works also the pipes that serve to bring the oil of Tempa Rossa (which is a concession given to Total), as well as the infrastructures that will be realized in the port of Taranto, we are making a gift to Total. We would then ask ourselves: did Total blow into someone's ear, which is the Government, and write him an amendment? Total on a case-by-case basis - I put it as a hypothesis, Madam President, allow me; you know, allow me to go - has it facilitated the way forward to table an amendment in your favour? Total has contributed economically - in a transparent way, so that you can never think that it does so in a non-transparent way, in which case it would be a crime and the crimes ascertain them by the judiciary, and it is appropriate that you start to ascertain, perhaps on this thing - Total, I said, gave contributions to the government that gives him a gift? Shall we talk about Poste? My colleague, Mr Molinari, has already mentioned this. When we say that we use 50% of Post Office money to buy foreign-state securities outside the EU, what do you think, for example, the President of Cassa deposits and loans Franco Bassanini, who uses the same money, which is the money of the Post Office? Maybe Senator Lanzillotta will tell us, and we'll ask for an answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u76	Please don't confuse politics with anything else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u77	Please go on, Senator Cioffi. CIOFFI (M5S). Ma'am, what did I say was weird? I didn't say anything, for Christ's sake. And what have we done, besides? We have also done another thing: we have increased the funds for second-level bargaining, something that - as we all remember - did Marchionne, when he said that the collective labour agreement could be overcome by second-level contracts. And we increase the funds; so we married Marchionne's method. Congratulations! But congratulations indeed! This government lives with its own light, it is a sun shining, it is the sun of the future. Someone may remember what the sun of the future is. We asked you to do things. We've asked to increase the motorway concessions. The motorway dealers - let us remember - pay 2.4 percent of the net receipts; this means 760 million euros per year. We've asked you to triple them, because dealers make some scary profits. The profits of motorway dealers exceed 10 billion, in the last five years, net of investments. Therefore, they are the only ones who have so much money; and we take public goods and do not make them pay. Instead, we charge so many poor Christians, because you are still tied to the rule that making many pay little is easier than making a few pay so much. If you're a left-wing government... But, in short, the left is a dead and dead word, by now, since the fall of the Berlin Wall. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Shall we talk about the TV dealerships? I'll be quick, Madam President. Do you know how much RAI pays for frequency concessions? It has paid EUR 23 million, a beloved nothing; the same is said of Mediaset, well represented in this Parliament until recently, but still well represented today. When are you going to hit the powerful a little bit? For RAI it is a round game, because the transfer is from state to state. And Mediaset don't want to touch her? Do we remember Mr Violante's words when he said that television would not be touched? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Cioffi. CIOFFI (M5S). I'm silent, Madam President. Just give me one more minute for two or three more things. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given you three more. CIOFFI (M5S). Then I'll finish, Madam President. On anti-corruption, as we have said, why is it announced to do something against corruption and not to launch a decree-law but to present a bill? We put the bill there and let it die, the decree-law becomes immediately operational: do you have the attributes to intervene decisively against what is happening? We ask you to do so, and we ask you to immediately draw up a bill on the extension of the limitation period. I mean, we ask you to act and not float, because you know what floats? Imagine it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u78	Too bad, style falls in language are never helpful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u79	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago the Secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi, disarmed the then President of the Council, Enrico Letta, because - he said - they were dissatisfied with the government's work because the indices of productivity and unemployment were such that one had to have a wing. It is so true that President Renzi came here to the Senate as a rather bizarre foal, with an attitude in some cases overwhelming, to say first of all that his goal was a reformer of two types, that is, he wanted to reform the country with constitutional reforms and intervene strongly in the financial economic field, because it was intolerable that Italy had an unemployment rate among the major in Europe. Well, after a few months and above all while Matteo Renzi presides over the European Council in the Italian semester, we have to draw some conclusions. He said that he had not been the creator of the 2014 law of stability and that the law of current stability, which will be valid for 2015 and for the three years, would of course mark a great turning point. We see the turning point in fact because, as my colleagues who have spoken have pointed out, the indices in Europe and, above all, ISTAT and entities not directly linked to this or that party do not seem particularly favourable to me. We are the first in Europe for public debt, the first, I dare say, for taxation, both on companies and on individuals, and we are the first in that we do not emerge from this economic crisis. So much so that Matteo Renzi went to Europe saying: it is absolutely necessary to change, for the pride of Italy that is among the founding countries of the united Europe, we must make our voice heard and finally convince the bad Merkel that we need to move from the period of recession to that of growth. Well, at the end of the Presidency of the European Council, it seems to me that there have been no concrete results beyond good intentions, since the indices have even deteriorated. This law of stability, then, had two tasks: to reduce current expenditure and to increase investment expenditure and, above all, to call for a pause for reflection as regards budgetary balance. It was strong in the work of the Commissioner for spending review Cottarelli, who had even predicted a cut of about 36 billion. Apparently, this cut will not succeed and then what does Renzi, who is very good at shifting attention to others and giving responsibility to others? In the first few months he started with Confindustria, remember? After that, quietly, he is taking some measures for Confindustria and the newspapers, who after having sanctified him as the savior of this Homeland began to be particularly critical of him, began to change their opinions and positions. The final result, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in my opinion, this law of stability does not come out of the crisis in the most absolute way, it is the data that says so: above all, however, it has also got worse in the method, at the parliamentary level. At the time, in fact, Berlusconi was accused of putting trust too often, but here there is no provision that does not pass through it. I therefore have the certainty, in my personal opinion, that that distracting foal who has appeared in this House, after months, begins to have some bolsage and to go towards the crooked horse, more than the pissed-off one. This I believe must be a text for all of us. Forza Italia, not wanting to pass as a conservative, for a sense of responsibility in this month has voted - not so strongly - some institutional reforms not very well done. Don't think by blackmail of dictating the timing and the ways you can get to the result you set yourself. He is very afraid, in fact, because what he promised will not be able to maintain it, and this law of stability proves it. You do not think that you will resort to an early vote, but take full responsibility for this law of stability. I say this very openly: we are not very serene. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators D'Anna and Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u81	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u82	Madam President, fellow senators and senators, the blanket was really very, very tight, and the risk of tearing it apart and leaving important pieces uncovered was at all times present and still looms over this Parliament. We therefore await the Government's proposal, which I am convinced will contain the hoped-for improvements that have been urged from several quarters and with conviction. Many necessary things certainly remain outstanding and will have to be dealt with again. We are not in the year zero, but we are not even at the apocalypse: I therefore think that some of the issues we have begun to deal with decisively should then be taken up again with other instruments. I am referring in particular to the rules to better and more precisely accompany the transformation of the Provinces, in order to avoid serious holes in the services they have provided so far. Similarly, I believe that we must give the necessary care - and I know that the Government's amendment pays attention to this aspect - to those who, within the Provinces, work with competence (indeterminate and precarious workers). I would have liked a fair and more attention for those eligible in the rankings of the competitions of the Guardia di Finanza and the Forces of the Order of the State and the local authorities, but I know that this is only a postponement of the debate, so I take note of the good will. On this, I had tabled with other colleagues some amending proposals, partly taken into account in the Government's amendment and partly suspended for the time being. On the other hand, I will continue to work with my colleagues on the next steps, because I am not used to quitting. Then there is an important intervention on some natural disasters, and this is a very strong and positive signal that we send out of these classrooms. I know what it means, because I have been in it since that cursed April 6, 2009, and when I listen to the words of my colleagues from Liguria, Emilia-Romagna, Sardinia and the other affected territories, I feel my same concern and my anxiety to do quickly and well, as well as the concern of my people, dismayed as those who are affected by these tragedies. However, more than five years after that tragic earthquake, Parliament and the Government finally and seriously return to the territories affected by the earthquake. Finally we return to put resources programmed until 2018 to finance public and private reconstruction: 6.2 billion for the next four years that will allow us to arrive positively to 2019, that is ten years after the earthquake, with the possibility finally to be able to rebuild the territories hit by the earthquake. In fact, after the initial commercial decree of 2009, no more intervention had been planned in an adequate manner and such as to allow a continuous flow of resources. Well, in this law of stability you do what you did not do, and for this, therefore, I can only thank the Government, which listened carefully to the local authorities, the citizens, the committees, all eager to rebuild our affected cities. In addition, in the maxi amendment of the Government, the very large part of the proposals that I had submitted, together with other colleagues, to the attention of the Budget Commission is incorporated. My amendments, also signed by the vice-president of the Senate, Fedeli, whom I want to publicly thank here, and by Senator Chiavaroli, as well as by many other colleagues, whom I really thank with affection, have had adequate attention and adequate financial and concrete commitment in the Budget Committee. In fact, there has been a sharing on the necessity and validity of the proposals and on the urgency of these measures. The result achieved, in short, is important and I believe that we can all be proud of this. First of all, the exemption from the absurd payment of the TASI for properties declared inaccessible by orders; the allocation of a sum of 20 million for the achievement of the budgetary balances of the Municipalities and the Province (the local authorities of the seismic crater, in fact, since 2009 are subjected to an unequal effort and lack of income due to the inagibility of thousands of buildings). There is something missing from what is needed, but perhaps we will return. We must now take note that there has been a serious commitment, and I would also like to thank the President of the Commission and, above all, the rapporteur, who has never missed his patient attention and sensitivity. Among the measures, the possibility for local authorities to extend contracts for reconstruction workers, which, if we had not dealt with this issue in this law of stability, would have all returned home on 31 December, with the result that the offices and structures of reconstruction would have stopped. A proportion of the funds allocated from year to year for technical assistance for reconstruction and authorisation to public administrations for the collection and disposal of waste with the public operator of the disposal site are also planned. Moreover, the allocation to municipalities of the economies obtained between the difference in contribution granted and the actual cost of the intervention, in order to quickly recommence the resources, in order not to make them remain unnecessarily and painfully in the coffers of institutions or banks. These are the qualifying points of a decisive intervention that we are preparing to make with this law of stability. I would also like to welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by both myself and my colleague Mr Tomaselli and other senators for the support of 30 million a year for three years to the COSMO-Skymed programme, an important and prestigious initiative that will give Thales Alenia and its sites, including that of L'Aquila, the opportunity to continue an initiative of very high strategic value, and which will at the same time allow not to lose workers and technicians very ambitious and sought abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. Mr Pezzopane (PD). For the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake of 2009 there is still much to do, but this law of stability gives a strong and important signal. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u83	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter into the substance of the Stability Act, I cannot fail to express my deep regret and also a certain discomfort as to how the examination of the measure in the Budget Committee ended, and how the Senate Assembly today is obliged to debate it. I absolutely agree with President Azzollini on the quality and commitment of the work carried out by the Commission and all its members, including those of all oppositions, which have made a very serious and constructive contribution during these intense working days. I thank the rapporteur in the Commission, Senator Santini, and also President Azzollini for the enormous and patient contribution they have made to our work and for the care and attention with which Deputy Minister Morando, I believe, also thanks to his long experience and parliamentary sensitivity, has addressed and very often solved the many issues, small and large, posed by the Groups and individual senators. But that is precisely why I cannot fully share the satisfaction of the President of the Budget Commission, the Commission whose task is to hand over to the House an accomplished text that gathers our work as an inquiry, built on the basis of a confrontation and transparent decisions to allow then all senators to address the issues on the substance and evaluate the solutions indicated in that forum. What happened, moreover, at second reading - it is true, there is the precedent of last year, but we were at first reading, so with a little more complex management - deserves a deeper reflection on the budgetary session and on how Parliament must equip itself to prevent the new budget law, provided for in the law implementing the new Article 81 of the Constitution, not immediately overwhelmed by parliamentary practice. The provision states, in the new law that will unify financial and budgetary maneuvering, that no rules of a legal nature or interventions of a local or micro-sectoral nature can be included, but that the focus should be on macroeconomic interventions, tax redistribution, support for the real economy, measures only tables for the strengthening of public investment and the introduction of incentives to the public and private economy and that, on the reduction of expenditure, we focus only on measures of rationalization at the various levels of government. This is not to criminalise sectoral interventions or individual territories, because I believe that every senator legitimately interprets the real needs of the citizens he represents, which in a time of such profound economic and social distress inevitably increase. I say this, on the contrary, because it is necessary to find an instrument and a place that, within a clear and clear financial framework, allow us to intervene on issues on which parliamentarians are called to give answers, but do so without submerging or obscuring the law of stability, today, and the new budget law, tomorrow, which must be devoted to economic policy decisions and to the maneuvering of public finances. It is precisely this economic policy action that qualifies this year the maneuver approved by the Government that, for the first time, after many years in which it was promised without ever being able to do so, realizes an operation of reduction of the tax burden on the job and the enterprises; transfers a part of the load on the financial annuities; reduces the cost of the job, realizing an operation complementary to what we have a few weeks ago decided with the delegation of work, a measure that the Senate has partially extended to the agricultural sector and that of the tourism. In fact, by reducing the cost of work indefinitely, it has made one of the reasons that even in the years of economic growth have caused the forms of precarious work to expand to an extent, that is its clear economic convenience. I believe that this element has not been sufficiently stressed, as well as the measures to support companies, both on the fiscal side with the reduction of IRAP (a measure also integrated and strengthened by the Senate also thanks to our amendment), and with measures to support investment in the real economy through support for small enterprises and the extension of the system of public guarantees. So, this year the center of the maneuver changes its mark, changes its vision and orientation because it is not only that of financial stabilisation and financial rigour, but it is growth and awareness that without growth there is no financial sustainability. It was right to confirm our respect for European limits, but at the political level it is sacrosanct to put growth at the centre of the maneuver and to do so not only in Italy but in Europe, because, beyond the individual actions that exist, I believe that this is the most important sign of the European semester, that is, a change of culture and culture of economic policy, having imposed this theme on the European agenda, having convinced at least a part of Europe that either returns to growth, or Europe knows how to create work and enhance its history and culture by mixing it with its manufacturing know-how, or it will be rejected by the peoples and its citizens. It must also be made clear that this is not just an Italian problem or a Mediterranean problem, because GDP figures tell us that it is now a European problem. Thus, from this awareness there is a series of lines of action that concern public investment, the conditions for the attraction of private and foreign investments that, as we have seen in many operations, are beginning to become interested again in an Italy that confirms its desire for change, measures to restore liquidity to companies. In this respect, I believe that we must look at the coming years knowing that one of the operations that we will have to deal with is to put the banking system in a position to restore liquidity to the system, because the measures on guarantees are fine, but if the grip of appessing in outstanding credit balances is not mitigated, I believe that the banks will not start to make credit again. In addition, another line that has perhaps been criticized by some colleagues in the southern regions is to use part of the cohesion funds, even if to cover the incentive measures for permanent work. That is right, but we must in any case avoid the risk that, with an obligation to return unused funds to Europe, we will once again achieve a negative balance of giving/having with the European Union. So let us focus, and especially the southern regions, on strengthening their capacity to achieve them. Compared to this new horizon, we Italians must do our part. We begin to do so with this manoeuvre; we must do so with reforms that make efficient the services that mark the quality of a country system (public administration, as we have said, justice, school) and not only for businesses, but for all citizens. I would like to stress that some of the efficiency measures of public administration are not abstract or theoretical, but are of social equity; in fact, the more inefficient public administration, the more damaged and affected citizens are those who have the least opportunity and opportunity to turn to a private market for services of collective interest. But in order to do this, colleagues, first of all we must eradicate corruption and crime, because the chronicles that hold to these phenomena are a blow that brings us back every time and it seems that it eliminates the so much effort that administrations, politics and citizens do to carry on and to change our country. The Roman events, beyond the judicial responsibilities that will be established, make us understand how the mechanisms of infiltration, capture and conditioning of the political and administrative system operate. If we have understood that, if we have identified these mechanisms, then we no longer have any alibi. We must act on those mechanisms by eradicating what produces and feeds this system. From this point of view, we have tabled a number of amendments, which aim precisely at influencing these mechanisms, while at the same time giving transparency, efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Therefore, the amendment tabled together with Mrs Chiavaroli on the reduction of a number of company holdings (which should reduce this archipelago by about 2,000 entities) is not everything and is not enough, but it is a beginning and, compared to the past, there is an addition that gives the hope that something will finally happen. There is a penalty for both administrative managers and administrators who do not respect these constraints. There is a small but significant rule that also forces the cooperative system to transparent, efficient and comparative mechanisms for public procurement. There is a division and greater transparency in the mechanisms for extending concessions, which the text appropriately provides for in support of the processes of aggregation and merger, which serve Italy to create competitive players in these sectors, also at international level, but which must not be aimed at consolidating position and inefficient rents. These proposals have been accepted and we are very pleased with them. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u85	Colleagues, I invite you again to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u86	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Thank you, Madam President, because I really couldn't go on. On the other hand, we have not accepted a proposal that we have made with regard to Roman events, and that we understood as a strong support of Parliament and national policy for the action that mayor Marino intends to take in order to eradicate those mechanisms. The intention of the amendment was to support the Capitoline Junta in the consolidation which must be undertaken and which derives from a plan which, I would like to remind you, was adopted only thanks to the rules that we presented last year, and which at the time met with the most clear opposition in Parliament by some of the representatives who were then involved in the judicial proceedings. These rules became law only thanks to the decision of the Government and Prime Minister Renzi. Perhaps, if action had been taken immediately, immediately beginning to act in the directions that had been indicated, even from that legislative text, some of the facts (of course not all) emerged in recent judicial investigations could be avoided. We must move forward in that direction, knowing, however, that those times, a little 'quiet and multiannual, which have been hypothesized, are no longer compatible with the administrative, financial and moral emergency that emerged with the recent investigations. So we need an acceleration but also an incentive. As has been recalled, Rome enjoys, as capital, a large amount of state resources and extraordinary resources given by Italian and Roman taxpayers, who pay, in particular in Rome, the highest taxes compared to other cities. It is therefore necessary to encourage and condition at least part of the additional funding available to Rome by the draft Stability Act for the practical implementation, over a period of two years, of the initiatives relating to the reduction of the participants, the review of the budget that has been prepared before what we have gone away discovering through the judicial investigations. It is necessary to check whether the allocation of resources corresponds to actual public interests or even to other parameters and then break the income system that exists in the large Roman municipalities that saw a degeneration of those systems. Therefore, actions of restructuring and rehabilitation on which we believe that the mayor will continue to encounter many resistances in the City Council that remains the same and that must have the national institutions at his side to support him and that he can have levers, through the conditioning of the delivery of the contributions, very strong in order to impose to his majority the effective implementation of those interventions. Unfortunately, despite the availability of Deputy Minister Morando, there was no agreement in the majority. However, at the point where we had arrived, the political commitment was made to follow up some of these indications. Having said that, it remains our favourable opinion on the line, the approach, the structure and the installation of this draft stability law, regretting, finally, that the resources needed to facilitate the VAT regime on relocation contracts have not been found, which are one of the instruments of the delegation of labour; we hope that in future this can be achieved in order to give way to a new system of more efficient and stronger labour market management. However, we believe that we need to move forward on these guidelines, developing the guidelines that this stability bill is beginning to give, but reaffirming that our priority, our horizon must be economic growth without which there will be no financial sustainability, neither social and political stability. On this work we will therefore be at the side of the Government together with the rest of the majority. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u87	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u88	Madam President Fedeli, I am very pleased that you are there to chair Vice President Gasparri with your side...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u89	I hope he also likes the shift change, because he is actually going to preside over the work of Vice-President Gasparri. (at 19.29 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u90	There is no political debate in this House. It is now a chess club and this is the 5:00 p.m. tea because we are discussing a measure that is not yet known to us. I would like to repeat this, because all the speeches that have been made just now refer to the draft law fired by the House of Deputies that we do not know if it will have changed in these hours with the drafting of a maxi amendment on which the Government seems to want to put confidence. I have heard discordant opinions, but we are always in a state of uncertainty that we do not know precisely what we are discussing. So, let me do some entertainment by quoting the philosopher Protagora of Abdera. He stated that man is the measure of all things, of those who are in that they are and of those who are not in that they are not. With this I mean that we have read the same text, albeit outdated, and we have found ideas such as the commendable Christmas letter of Senator Pezzopane, who reminded me a little 'Christmas in the Cupillo House', in which there were ecumenical thanks. In the thanks of Senator Pezzopane, in fact, I did not seem to detect any reference to those boys, turned to her as well as to me, who for two years have been waiting to scroll the ranking, being suitable for the contest for the Finance Guard, being suitable for the competition for Public Security, being suitable for the competition for students and marshals of the Carabinieri. If Deputy Minister Morando allows me, I wanted to propose to the MEF to put the following epigraph: "fluctuat nec mergitur," which is on the coat of arms of the Municipality of Paris, "barcollo" among the waves of the sea, but I do not sink, because I believe that this is the essence of the financial; we boat, and in this case we do it without even knowing what we are talking about completely. Dear Deputy Minister, I have the feeling - and this is the end of quotes - that Horace must help us, who said: Carpe diem quam minimum credula posterus, capture the moment and forget the interest for those who will come later. Basically, in this document - if that is the case - you propose a maneuver of EUR 38 billion, plus EUR 18 billion of contributory reductions, taken almost all by the increase in public debt. In fact, 11 billion come from the derogation from the 2015 budget. The following consideration comes to my mind: if with Renzi and this glorious Government one day yes and the other we also talk about reforms to get out of the public debt banks, to bring the economy of this Nation back to levels that have actually deteriorated in the last three years of governments Monti, Letta and Renzi, how is it that we reaffirm the concept that we can continue to use the leverage of public spending by producing additional public debt? It is a contradiction in terms. You should explain to us what the reforms you want to do are for if you linger in the fiftieth year vice of Italian politics to solve the problems of contemporaries by placing the cost on posterity. Because that's all the debt is. Who will pay these 11 billion debt? The future fatters of statism, who will invent, perhaps drawing a little from even some good reading, the tax on the moonlight that Ignatius Silone in the book "Fontamara" reminded the Cafoni of Fucino to feed more the Prince's revenues. I don't know if you're gonna put the moonlight tax on it, but I don't see much more to tax in this nation. What do you do, then? Increase your debt by EUR 11 billion and tell us that the rest will be cut to regions, municipalities and provinces. It should be said that this is a pious intention and that the regions have already informed you that, since their budget is 60% health care, they have no intention of further cutting an essential service such as health protection. But if that is the case, you should explain to us the reasons for your behavior, the result of so much science, and the reforms that will come, in order to get Italy out of the pitfalls of the economic crisis. I am sorry for Deputy Minister Morando, because I know he is a man of good reading, but you want to encourage economic recovery by increasing VAT, thus increasing taxation on consumer goods and the tax burden on citizens. In all this infused science, which for eight months you have been proposing to us, between one trust and the other, write in the law of stability that this maneuver, while maintaining the growth rate, should basically lead us to an increase in GDP in far 2022. Dear Morando, here we are at the Vatican of Tiresia! From here to 2022, first of all I wish you and me still alive. Keynes helps us in this regard: to those who asked him, in fact, what would be the centralized economy in the medium to long period, he said that, in the economy, in the medium to long period only one thing is certain, that is, the death of the economist. So if you make this manoeuvre today, to stabilize the Italian economy in 2022, you are more in the Vatican, than in the good administration of this country. With regard to VAT, the increase on agricultural products from 10 to 12% and increased VAT to 24% from 1 January 2016 and up to 25% from 1 January 2017: this discourages the purchase, production and increase of GDP and employment. If there is anyone, by pardon, among my learned colleagues of the majority, who can refute the fact that these things are written in that document - except then see what will be written in the maxi amendment - and if the things I am saying are not the things that emerge from the reading of the document approved, on a proposal from the Government, from the Chamber of Deputies please give me donkey and idiot. Therefore, for the 800,000 jobs that Minister Padoan believes he can guarantee immediately, we should wait for 2022. Today, it is only the increase in taxation that is certain. Today it is certain only the increase of the debt. Today it is certainly only the increase in VAT. And to do what? Vice Minister Morando, in fact, knows better than I what the ways of spending money are. Do we want to tell our colleagues as well? Money can be spent, with its own money, to do something that serves itself: it is what the citizen does with his own money. You can spend the government's money to do something for yourself: in this case it will abound in the economic resources that will be used. You can take public money to do things that affect others: in this case we would have the maximum of the money committed with the minimum of security to commit it for something we need. Then you, with this measure, repeat over the next few years the concept of statism: economic planning at 2022. We are talking about seven years, so we also beat Stalin's Russia, whose plans were five years old: we make economic planning at seven years old. Liberal economists call state programming the "tragic presumption." You have the presumption, in a changing picture of crisis now cyclical, of being able to know, with these measures that depress even more the economy, what are the developments that the economy and that Italian society can have even in seven years. In politics everyone can be what he wants, but he must be as long as he declares what he is. Dear Morando, here we are to real socialism, we are to the planned economy, we are to the old habit of making debts. Forlani said of the public debt: It's like the drizzle of May: it grows a little all of them. I, on the other hand, say to you, if you allow me, as a good liberal, that it is worth another maximum on the public debt (that you increase by as much as 11 billion euros), that it is not that of Forlanian memory: it is much more. The 11 billion is nothing more than the future taxes that will be imposed on the taxpayer. How was the public debt born? With measures like these. Half of the EUR 38 billion you committed have no cover. Private credit decreases by 6 and a half billion and we continue in the policy of state laissez-faire, employing a mountain of money, leaving even dozens of young people at home, who today would serve in those police forces to respond to a primary need, which is that of security. How do you want to fight corruption and crime? In a country where you make 100 billion euros of tax evasion or avoidance, we give up hiring 760 financiers, while we infarcate the school of another 40,000 precarious. These are the things people want to understand. You continue in this verse and you have the voice of the majority, which is the voice of numbers. But, be careful, the day will come when you, the majority, will not be and will not be able to act, as you have often done in the name of dual morality, as the forerunners of freedom and democracy and as the healers of this nation, because with these measures and procedures, which submit Parliament to the government's empire, discussing measures that are not yet in the Chamber, you have marked every limit and you have exceeded the pillars of Hercules of the way of making government in a liberticidal manner. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u91	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the law of stability since its launch has been presented with high praise by the Premier, generating many expectations in the country. "Expansive," Renzi had called it; but expansive it will not be. For the North League the maneuver has no breath, is depressed, will not re-launch the competitiveness of the country, no longer existing and left only to the enterprise and courage of brave but vexed entrepreneurs. It still creates debt, several billions, and still has too many linear cuts and still many heavy taxes, even the local ones, which will inevitably trigger. And then it has uncertain financial cover, starting from the higher revenue of 3.8 billion that was supposed to derive from the fight against tax evasion; certainly will trigger the safeguard clauses and therefore VAT will be up to 25.5% and 13% the facilitated one. They'll also take excise duties on gasoline. Failure to complete work in the Commission is a failure of the Government and its majority. Yet the times were not short, but they were all there. It is not the oppositions that have hindered the work of the Budget Commission - we denounce it - but the representatives of the majority and, above all, the Government, which has tabled almost 100 amendments. I want to mention those that Renzi had to represent the milestones of the measure: the IRAP cut, the 80 euro bonus and the financial spaces for the Stability Pact in Municipalities, Provinces and Regions. On IRAP, it is true, there is the positive intervention since 2015 on the cost of labour, which is deducted from the taxable subject; but you have excluded seasonal and therefore you have not done something good and wise for the tourism sector. In addition, to 1,400,000 self-employed people, you have withdrawn the 10% reduction in the rate for 2014, which they already thought they had in their pockets. You made fun of them. On the 80 euro bonus, the original sin, the electoral mark included in the IRPEF decree of April this year, which brought to Renzi and its PD 40.8 percent to the Europeans, is missing another promise of the Premier, that of extending it to all the weak, to which at this point will only pay more taxes. I am referring to the minimum pensioners, the unemployed, the incompetent, the low-income self-employed, but also to those large-scale single-income families for which the New Right Centre had so much expressed and spent, at this point unnecessarily. All subjects that will remain with their mouths dry. The 80 euro bonus is therefore unfair and, like this year, will not raise consumption; but above all, it will blaze the state budget for its excessive cost of 10 billion and will limit, as it is limiting, the room for manoeuvre to make a true expansionary policy. On the financial spaces granted to the territorial authorities for the Stability Pact there is then the real mockery of this Government. You allow them to spend the money they should have in cash for investments, but the problem is that you snatch them a second first by cutting their resources four times as much. This is the most shameful aspect of this law of stability: you finance the 80 euro bonus with 4 billion new cuts to the Regions, which will be added to the previous ones. Lombardy will have 950 million euro less. There will be cuts in health care, that is the increase in health tickets, and there will be cuts in local public transport on iron and rubber. You finance the 80 euro bonus with 1 billion cuts to the Provinces, which will become 2 billion in 2016 and 3 billion in 2017. These provinces, still alive but largely in disrepute by the wicked Delrio law, will no longer have money for the heating of schools, to plug the holes and shovel the snow on the streets. Bravo! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You fund the 80 Euro bonus with 1.2 billion euros of Commons cuts, where you still call mayors to make collectors on your behalf. Bravo again! And let us come to the scandalous aspects. After the business and the evil that are emerging related to the phenomenon of immigration and the scandals related to Mafia Capitale, that they see involved the head of the cooperatives Buzzi, funder of the Democratic Party and of the mayor Marino that, boasting, loved to profit on Roma and clandestine, is really scandalous the financing for another 200 million for the three years for the system of reception of immigrants. The attack on the mountain with the altitude tax, i.e. the IMU on uncultivated mountain farmland, is scandalous, with the increase of VAT on pellets and the reduction of the facilities on LPG and heating oil. Mountain territories are the victims of an unprecedented attack and the executioner is, once again, this Government. It is shameful, then, to give again 90 million to the earthquake victims of Sicily for a earthquake of 24 years ago and to limit to a few and insufficient millions for the newly earthquaked areas: in fact, given only 15 million for the territories of Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto, affected by the earthquake of 2012, and nothing, I say nothing, to the recent floods of Liguria, Piedmont, Tuscany, Veneto, Friuli and the Province of Foggia. Not only are these communities not given sufficient resources for reconstruction and compensation for damages, but you have even imposed on them to pay by December 22 the tax and contributory taxes that had been suspended. The reverse charge mechanism is also devastating, which requires large retailers to issue invoices without VAT. This measure is not a fight against tax evasion! This measure is nothing more than a forceful and interest-free loan demanded by the State from the companies that supply the goods to the organized distribution. Colleagues, the scope of the norm is devastating: many suppliers, not cashing VAT anymore, will remain without liquidity for a refund, at least 10 billion, which they will receive only after years of waiting. And what will be the result of this vexation, wretched and demential rule? An unstoppable chain of failures, the closure of thousands of businesses and the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. One last comment, on the stop at TASI in 2015. First of all, sterilization highlights another non-promise of Prime Minister Renzi: the introduction of the local tax next year will not be there. So citizens and businesses will still be waiting for the long-awaited simplification. And I'm sorry, but the stop to the increase in taxes on the house and sheds is a resounding bale: the increases will be there and will be yet another blow for the responsibility of this Government. To weigh, in fact, besides the cut of 1,2 billion, there is the lack of refinancing of the equalization fund of 625 million previewed from the previous law of stability in order to mitigate the effect of the TASI. In fact, sterilization does not block the rates decided by the municipalities, but only the ceilings, so the local authorities affected by the cuts and the lack of refinancing of the buffer fund will certainly be forced to burden the citizens again, increasing, where possible, the rates. Here we highlight how the majority rejected an amendment of ours aimed at restoring the fund and thus giving tax relief to citizens and municipalities. We had predicted that part of those resources was drawn from those today destined to Rome Capital: 110 million euros, which will be added to 420 million next year, I repeat, 420 million that since 2007 the Capitol removes from the pockets of all Italians. Majority and government, however, have preferred for the umpteenth time to flood the capital's administration with money, in the midst of the scandal of the middle land, and for the municipalities remain only vexations and robbed. For the waste of the Marino administration, however, there is no shortage of money. In conclusion, we at the North League are smiling to restore the financing of EUR 6.5 million to the Italian Union of the blind and the visually impaired. Renzi, instead of saving on waste, still abundantly present with full hands in the country and never quite attacked, tried to do it on the shoulders of those who really need it: thanks to the pressures of the League and our secretary Salvini, instead, she foiled this real robbery. After all, however, we are very concerned about the country, because the law of stability does not contain incisive growth actions and for the revival of competitiveness; it does not contain investment policies and reduction of the tax burden. It is a maneuver to which we must rebel, and the League will do so, here, in this place, and on the territory, where it has always been able to express itself to the best. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u93	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u94	Mr President, I will not take the opportunity of this speech to speak with the Government or with my colleagues, because everything has basically been said in the Commission. On the other hand, I am interested in being listened to outside, because unfortunately the message that passes with respect to this law of stability is that it is finally expandative. If that were the case, this would mean that it finally brings new resources and, more importantly, security into the real economy. What is certain is that this law of stability must fall within and be comfortable in the wake of the European Treaties that Renzi must observe, because he promised to do so and so our President of the Republic considers it necessary to do. So what do you stand for? First of all, on the repeal of a law that was structural. I want to talk mainly about the South, but not only, because in the slides we were talking about this great idea of decontribution for new recruits, with reference to both welfare and social security contributions. Well, when the law of stability is well flowing and knowing the laws, it turns out that another one that was structural is being repealed, which already existed since 1990. With this law we had for the South a 100% remission of both INPS and INAIL contributions and, for the other regions, 50%, but still a percent return for all artisan enterprises. Well, we cancel this and make another one, in which the remission is only for INPS contributions and there is a ceiling of 8,000 euros, which is worth - as much of the Renzi Government - as a commercial, that is only for 2015: then, the void. That old law cost about 1.1 billion, while this - apparently, at least so they say - 900 million. Faced with this double looting, there is another one: the one that removes one billion for three and a half billion years for 2018 from the cohesion and development funds, those funds that Italy receives after having given of it to equal the Regions, to ensure that those disadvantaged regions are no longer so. It is true, however, that they were part of the old programming, and the administrations of the Southern regions, almost all of the center-left, had the great ability not to spend them. At this point, it would have seemed right, at a time of urgency, to take this money but to maintain that structural law and increase the audience, that is, to make sure that in the whole nation you could take advantage of this 100% reduction for three years for all the new recruits: it would also have been an act of solidarity for what has now become a disadvantaged territory (because we can say that now also the North, like the rest of Italy, is disadvantaged). Well, we tried to participate in the ballet of the Government and President Azzollini: tell us that amendment, we put it aside, we keep it aside; wait, but is it really the important ones? We have tried to dialogue and tell the government: look at the fact that we are going to take away resources and there will be no more refinancing, but the former trade unionist, rapporteur of the bill of stability, Senator Santini, says that we will make an agenda that - as President Azzollini assures - is not denied to anyone, being a possible promise of the Government to see. So, it eliminates what's structural to do spot interventions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then there was the abolition of IRAP: "We've been spending it since May? Then 10% for all businesses; no. That's not true; I changed my mind: we only remove the work component. But even the 5 Star Movement is among the first to shout at the scandal, because 70% of those resources only concern large companies. So let's shut them up: let's introduce an amendment by the rapporteur and say that next year 10% will be taken away from small businesses that do not yet have employees and so they will also have this facility. Yes, but that was already valid from this year because the government, dear citizens who listen to us, has not yet fully understood how emergent the situation is out of here. So, we did this minicontentino to try to appease the 5 Star Movement that claimed the right also for small and medium-sized enterprises: basically a useless content because, given the lack of seriousness of this Government, it will definitely go back." Then there are the safeguard clauses. I would not want this word 'expression', a safeguard clause, to be underestimated and to enter common language as something that is nothing at all, okay, then not taken. No. It was written exactly like that of Monti, not like that of Letta, because that predicted that if you do not make the cuts you must make a measure to increase the taxes. It says here: taxes have been increasing since 2016 - that's for sure - and VAT increases, i.e. indirect taxation that affects everyone regardless of income. So what do we do? The increase in both the rate to 10% and the rate to 22% is fixed for 2016 and will reach one to 13 and the other to 25.5. Let us then ask the Government to explain this clause. Everything was based on the spending review and Renzi had claimed this courage: I'll cut it off, what are these waste? Then we saw that the mountain gave birth to the mouse; I think the vacation of the magistrates: 5-6 days back and forth should give us about 50 billion in the next three years. Since we do not trust ourselves we have asked for explanations, and then Deputy Minister Morando, gentlemen who listen to us, has been able to do nothing but say: we are actually very late. I asked him: "Do you remember that there was also another safeguard clause that you had put to cover the payment to companies that should have led to an increase in VAT revenue?" He told me that it will not take place, telling me to be quiet: but in the law of stability comes in the 80 amendments the clause that must be paid instead. Where's that coming from? From the payment of the enterprises; therefore it is a dog that bites its tail. So, since so many tips have arrived in the 80 amendments, which have little to do with the spending review, all I have to say is: gentlemen, we are not the ones who want to paint gloomy streets or ravines or coffins, but unfortunately it is the Renzi Government that requires us to be honest with you so as not to make you feel sterile whining, arid. They tell you that you weep because you are so, you are not optimistic. You don't have a euro in your pocket, but shut up, be happy! Get out of the house and spend; you will probably find all the shops closed by now, because the shutters go down, but you insist and go and try with some credit cards to do something. I would ask for an act of courage from the President of the Senate, the Head of State, the Premier, to speak to the country and say: "Things go wrong and those few resources we have allocated badly because we gave the tips to the right and to the missing". So much so that, behind the deadline for the approval of the law of stability, we are still waiting for the quarrel between right, left, League, SEL, because everyone participates but we are not called, because you have to spend these 5 million back and forth. Because that's what's happening. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What about the 100 million in Rome? Yes, because Marino is a decent person so you have to give. But when the 5 Star Movement says: All right, you have to give this money. Can we report them and see where they're being spent?So, no, it can't be done. Then we can give the citizens' money as they were given in May: the Renzi Government has always given 100 million to EUR SpA, which unfortunately is to the honours of the news. But we were quiet, good, polite, to get to this point and ask for this act of courage. I would also like another act of courage. The government has amended itself and blocked itself from freeing the hands of the municipalities, which now must not increase the TASI, but has forgotten to tell citizens that last year 625 million had been allocated for deductions. So the TASI, which has been regulated by Renzi, has been heavier for those who have small incomes and smaller houses, and it will be even more so, because the municipalities will be unable to grant even that little deduction that the Letta Government had granted. Unfortunately, that's what I had to tell you. But I wanted to tell you: "We hope for the pacts, we lower taxes, we establish the income of citizenship, we give strength and force to this country that must start to consume and live again," but I cannot, because there is the Renzi Government, and I am very sorry to have to tell you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u95	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the 5th Commission, the rapporteurs of this stability law for their work and, allow me, the whole Commission, because even in the speeches that have marked the figure that the opposition has wished to leave in this stability law they have always had the ultimate aim of improving this stability law. There was so much to be improved, Mr President, and I am speaking with great respect to the Government which has introduced within the stability law, which came to us from the House, a new law of stability, another great maneuver, the one that we will probably have to photograph and verify tomorrow in that Update Note that we are going to vote on. It was a massive manoeuvre, within a law of stability already voted by the House and which therefore will probably see the net increase to be financed, in addition to the 50 billion that already quoted the law of stability when it came from the Chamber's examination in these Parliament's classrooms. It is a law of stability that should have and could have brought into its architrave the unfolding of a spending review that we should finally be able to quantify (and instead we do not quantify even today), because only that correct revisiting of public expenditure allows us to lower the tax pressure we all look at, but also to achieve a consolidation of the public accounts on which so much had been spent the commissioner at the spending review and on the basis of which the President of the Council had then moved his considerations, from one slide to another, at the beginning of his mandate. A few months later, the Commissioner returned to his job or perhaps retired, but no trace of his work for the Italian Government has remained, neither outside nor within this law of stability. On the contrary, this is a law of stability - and we point out with great concern - which carries out a spending review, but on the contrary: many expenses are increasing, often those of the central administrations, more and more resources are allocated by filling and emptying the so-called FISPE fund (Structural Fund for economic policy interventions) in order to give them coverage. On the one hand, expenditure is growing and, for example, expenditure on municipalities is decreasing. Therefore, that spending review, instead of improving the quality of public spending, dumps the burden on the weakest people, in this case, from the institutional point of view of the municipalities, but from the point of view of the common good on citizens, because it is those citizens who will eventually pay the bill of stability also. Moreover, it is a law of stability on which, as far as budgetary documents are concerned, even the European Union has expressed some doubts. We are concerned about this, and that is how we will - if this is the trend - reduce our level of indebtedness by another 0.5%. However, the most bitter thing is to see how even in this law of stability this Government has exercised itself, contrary to the spirit of the spending review, to allocate resources all coming from new taxes towards Italian citizens. Yes, because if the municipalities suffer from the alleged blockage of the IMU (the one that has been announced with so much emphasis for the year 2015), that is if the municipalities will not have those resources, sure is that they will throw on their citizens the cost of those services; therefore it is a fake block that of the IMU, but it is sure what the citizens will pay with the increase perhaps of local taxes. Old and new taxes are being chased in this law of stability, some to the limits of imagination, as we have already said during the debate in the Budget Committee. A new tax that we did not imagine possible is the one that goes to increase the VAT on pellets, that is that wood chipboard that today helps our families to warm up saving on the classical expenses of methane or diesel. So you arrive quickly, from the mill tax to the chipboard tax, to invent a new tax. Another one that I found even more curious is the one that doubles taxation, i.e. the levy, on the ways in which artisan companies, thanks to the tax relief on property renovations, can tear up some market and work; well, on those revenue qualifying expenses, which are certified by bank transfers, the levy goes from 4% to 8%. This means that we continue to take away liquidity from Italian companies and households: families with a tax on the house, companies with old and new taxes; and taking away liquidity from our companies, which often do not have the financial strength to cover their risk in the bank, means taking away valuable resources from the lives of those companies, that is, the oxygen of those companies. In fact, an artisan enterprise is already ate almost all its profit margin with the increase of this levy: so that 4% more is a less gain for that enterprise and a greater gain for the State. If we add this to the many other sufferings of Italian companies (e.g. on the liquidity side; on the VAT refunds, for which it takes two years; on the tax periods that now far exceed 100 percent; on the cost of the financing they pay in the bank, when and how they access it), then we understand the erosion of that already small margin that remains to that poor craftsman or to that small and medium enterprise that, with difficulty, conquers a job, a contract on restructurings in tax bonuses. Why did I insist on this, Mr President, and especially on you, Deputy Minister Morando? Because perhaps this is even more serious than that overall tax burden than the economic system does. At this stage, removing liquidity means removing the possibility of accessing the financial money market and reducing the ability to resist this crisis. I would like to stress here one positive element that we find in this law of stability. If, on the one hand, we are very disappointed by the Government's intervention in terms of increasing taxes on the pension funds and on the investments of these, it helps us to have some hope for the IRAP intervention. However, I would also like to point out that that intervention on the IRAP does not help the work component, that is to say the self-employment that we have so much asked to be able to promote as much as employees with regard to the famous bonus of 80 euros. It is okay that today, thanks to God, the government understands the mistake made and grants the extension of this audience to self-employment; but we must help that self-employment to hire people and, therefore, not bind this benefit only to those who do not have employees: we also favour the self-employment of any workers. Our vote on this law of stability will be a vote against, Mr President, because we know that it is not through this law of stability that we will be able to resume the race for a more solid economy. We are happy for now to see these modest results but, I am sure, in the long run, with the passing of the weeks, we will see strongly put in charge by those who know that these accounts are not in order. Instead, we know that only by lowering taxes will those accounts be able to return in order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u97	Mr President, at the end of such a long and rich debate it is of course difficult to intervene to add considerations, among other things, on a maneuver, the law of stability, which is very complex and complex. In this brief speech, I would like to focus on some of the comments I have heard this afternoon, because many or some of them seem to me to be uncritical and unfounded to say the least. First of all, I would like to stress the improvements that the work done in the Senate Budget Committee (I take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs and the whole Commission) has made to the stability bill. Since no one has done so, however, I would like to remind you of the context in which this measure takes place. As we know, the European area is still experiencing moments of great difficulty, of discomfort that make us understand how there are threats, risks that need to be addressed and to which we need to respond with an adequate and effective economic policy strategy. The greatest risk - we must remember - is deflation. Since price increases are now close to zero for many countries, including ours, this could have very serious consequences. It is first and foremost to respond to these threats that our economy needs to grow again, and we know that in order to return to growth we need important measures that must be taken on both fronts: on the front of the revival of demand, consumption, investment and on the front of that ability to compete, to produce that the great chapters of work, of the tax, of the public administration attack. Well, if we read it in its broad lines, we notice that this bill of stability moves in this direction and there is a first important innovation that I would like to stress and that I have not heard anything from anyone. This bill of stability has been presented in Europe, at the level of the European Commission, and has put not theoretically but in fact, in the numbers, in the measures it has presented, for the first time in years, the fact that in order to improve and consolidate even rigorous actions on the public budget we must review the expenditure through incentives to revive the economy. Here is the novelty of the bill of stability that we are discussing. If we do not look at this aspect, we do not understand anything else. Of course, you may agree or not, but it is undeniable that this is a fact and a novelty. I have heard that this government does not have an economic policy, it does not know what it wants to do on the economic policy front. I would like to know how one can say such a thing when one can read quite easily what the economic policy strategy is, both through this bill of stability and through other measures that preceded it. It is a composition between demand measures. I would like to ask Senator Bonfrisco who speaks about the fact that more taxes have been applied: where are these higher taxes? Do we want to remember what it means, in terms of the possibility of the tax wedge, to consolidate the bonus of 80 euros? Do we want to remember what the measures for self-employment, for investment facilities mean? These are measures that affect demand, but also the supply capacity of our economy. How can we say that the abolition of the IRAP component from labour costs of €5.6 billion was good, but... It's something I've been hoping for for for years, but no government has been able to do in these years. How can we not talk about the decontribution on new recruits as something that meets the need to reduce business costs? And are we not interested in measures to promote internationalisation and innovation? Don't they matter? Of course, I do not say that when you identify an economic policy strategy, you have to agree, but you cannot say that such a strategy, made up of supply and demand measures, does not respond to a line of action. It can be said that it is not enough, but it cannot be denied, as I have heard. Of course, it is absolutely true that the net macroeconomic impact is not so significant, because we wanted to maintain certain constraints within the framework of the Pact with Europe. This, of course, does not mean that there is no expansionary effect, which results from having shifted the weight of all the tax burden from the production system, work and businesses, to other forms of income. On this, too, on financial activities, our country is getting closer to the European average. We have no element of peculiarity. It is useless, from this point of view, to shout at an unbearable burden. It is very important to stress that this different approach is being compared today with Europe, with the European Commission. We knew that such a comparison was not easy, especially because, as we know, new policies are needed in Europe. Of course, who doesn't care about Europe says: "But why don't we go through the roof? Let's spend, let's invest. What do we care about 3 percent? We care, because we do not want what is happening in Greece to happen, simply because the possibility of breaking certain rules is being evoked. Of course, for those who even say that it is better to get rid of the European currency, the euro, there are no problems, because from this point of view it is enough to worry about paying the costs that will result and that for years will weigh on future generations. We did not make a choice of this kind, but we thought that our place - and we repeat this - is that of a founding country of united Europe, a country that therefore continues to manage a policy of criticism and confrontation. From this point of view it is important to point out that the game is open. We will see what will happen here in the spring, but our credibility will be the best weapon if we continue to carry on, as we are doing under this stability law, a plan of reforms, measures to boost demand and restructure supply. It must be said with great force that we must place this measure in the perspective of the thousand days. It would be very serious if we continued to say that we want reforms but then at some time we forgot about them. That is not the strategy to be followed, because from this point of view we would have serious negative repercussions. For the reasons I have mentioned, I think it can be said that this bill of stability must be approved. This is the Democratic Party's propensity, because it is a law of stability that helps to revive our economy. It can be imagined that next year we will certainly have an enhanced supply and demand capacity, thanks also to what we are approving these days. Just to remind you of the work done in the Senate, I would like to point out that some important measures have been strengthened, also mentioned by other colleagues before me, such as the preferential tax regime for self-employed workers, the strengthening of tax credit and the taxation of pension funds. This is the first time that this link between financial activities and investment is firmly established, at the level of the productive system and the real economy: I would not underestimate this aspect. Of course, this does not mean that we can view everything as satisfying. I consider, for example, that it is not satisfactory that we have failed to complete this work, with the possibility of approving our own text. Let me say, however, that then we must also ask ourselves whether we can be satisfied with certain procedural delays and certain rules and measures, which still apply to the budgetary sessions. Now, without, of course, wanting to make excuses of this kind, I think it is important, precisely in view of the application of the new budget law and therefore of a new accounting system, to look at the possibility of accompanying this type of measure in procedural terms as well. I therefore believe that I can confirm that the sign of this law of stability is not abstractly that of having set a goal of growth, which would be worth up to a certain point, but that of having put in place, concretely, measures and instruments to pursue this objective of growth. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u98	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u99	I call the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u100	Mr President, the reading of the Senate - which has been held in the Budget Committee over the past few days and also, let us be honest, during these nights - confirms and strengthens the economic and fiscal policy that characterizes the budgetary policy of this Government. It is a narrow and difficult line: this is the point that I am interested in highlighting, even if it has done so now, very well, Professor Guerrieri Paleotti. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Enough with the lessons! Let us vote on the amendments! President Senator Volpi, have Deputy Minister Morando respond. We don't have the maxi amendment, but at least we have Senator Morando: let him speak. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It is a narrow and difficult line between the need to support, on the one hand, aggregate demand for too long too weak and, on the other hand, the need to carry out those structural reforms that we know we have been doing for decades and which, because of the weakness of politics, we have not been able to do for decades. This is therefore the substance of the economic and budgetary policy line that the Government is following. On the one hand there is all the expansionary fiscal policy, compatible with the stability of public finance, researching and - let's say the things as they are: here is an important novelty - finally even a little finding and obtaining the necessary flexibility at European level. On the other hand, there is the concrete funding - we are talking about budgetary policy - of the change in crucial sectors, in fundamental structures - that would mean in fundamental economic institutions - such as school service, labour market rules, the system of protection against unemployment and the functioning of civil justice, which is crucial for good or bad economic performance. In a nutshell, this is the context of economic and fiscal policy in which we placed, during this reading of the Senate, the most important choices made in the Commission. It will suffice, in order to give the sign of this balance - difficult, of course, and always exposed to errors - between policies on the demand side and policies on the supply side two precise examples, which have to do with the innovations that the Senate, during the examination in the Budget Committee, is preparing to introduce into the law of stability. The first example is this: it was said, in essence, that the choice of expulsion of stable labour costs (that of workers with permanent employment contracts) from the IRAP tax base was important; But it was also said - and it is a bit paradoxical that we have tried to say, again this evening, after the choice made in the Budget Committee - that at least in part this expulsion, which is certainly costly, from the IRAP tax base of the stable labour cost component is paid 1.4 million self-employed workers, to whom the law of stability, in its original version, as it reached the Senate even after the reading of the House, partly created a burden through the return of the IRAP rate to the level of the years before 2014, when, with the so-called decree of the '80 euros', in the last spring, the IRAP rate was raised to less than 10 percent compared to what it was. In this regard, there has been a great deal of waste on the media - especially on television, of course - the somewhat ridiculous exploitations of the right hand take what is given with the left hand. Anyone who has only a vague knowledge of the dimensions in the field cannot support these arguments. The negative contribution given to the Stability Act by this million and 400,000 self-employed in terms of return to the full rate of 2013 was 163 million euros, while everyone knows that the cost of removal from the IRAP tax base of the labour cost component is far greater than 5 billion euros: dimensions that are certainly not comparable. However, politically and at least as a feeling widespread in the country, there was a certain critical consideration, which made us say that, yes, all right, but there is an important component of our productive world, of the trade sector, which plays a decisive role in the country's economy, which however by the law of stability, with the IRAP maneuver, receives some penalty. Moreover - it was a more subtle subject, but there was, until yesterday morning's intervention of the Senate Budget Commission - it could be said that those same self-employed workers who see themselves increasing the rate compared to 2014, without having a worker with an indefinite employment contract at his/her employees, perhaps see his/her competitor, on the same market, just because he/she has an employee with an indefinite contract, conduct fiscally some form of unfair competition. You could even get to support this argument (although I think these are exaggerations): the more structured enterprises are advantaged and the less structured ones, constituted only by the traditional artisan without employees, receive a penalty. Now, I have supported in the Commission and I want to repeat here that we, with the IRAP measure, as well as with the decontribution measure, have made a clear choice that we are not only not ashamed of, but that we are openly vindicating. Yes, the measure on IRAP concerns only those who have at least one worker with a stable employment contract, because we want to make sure that they give stable work costs less, finally in Italy, than to give precarious or fixed-term work. That's what we want, it's not that we did it because we were wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And yet that tarlo remained. Yes, but this thing about traditional craftsmen and traders doesn't like it; it's a bad choice. Now, there is a contradiction that we have considered significant, to the point that we have worked with the Commission, not denying us a confrontation with the opposition forces, for overcoming this albeit not huge contradiction. Why was this contradiction significant? Because, whether you look at the issue on the demand side (more than a million people have a small reduction in their income), or you look at this issue on the supply side (people doing business have some cost increase compared to the 2014 situation, in a country where labour costs are determined very heavily by a particularly high level of tax burden on labour and enterprise), this contradiction remained. Hence the decision we have taken in the Commission and which, in my opinion, should be enhanced. I was surprised that only a few people in this afternoon's debate highlighted it. I must acknowledge from this point of view that Senator Bonfrisco has done so; but, for the rest, almost none of the opposition has stressed the importance of this choice. In the Commission we decided that, through the use of significant resources, this contradiction was judged to be great (as the opposition did) or that it was judged to be a little smaller (as the majority did) was overcome. As soon as this law enters into force, self-employed workers and self-employed traders (1,400,000 people) without employees with a stable employment contract will pay in 2015 exactly the IRAP they paid in 2014, not a euro less, not a euro more. It is said that the euros are few; if they were few, then why have you made all this controversy about the fact that you were going back to the previous rate? This is the first choice, regarding the balance between supply and demand. Second example, very fast. Investments are the link between demand (because they are an essential part of aggregate demand) and supply, because of course they increase, when they are significant and well oriented, the productive capacity of a country and its competitiveness. Investments therefore link supply and demand in an indissoluble way. But it has been said critically towards the stability law: with the choice made on supplementary pension funds and on so-called privatised funds by increasing the rate of levy on capital gain of the investments made by them, there is a contradictory choice because, on the one hand, there will be the penalization of the workers enrolled in pension funds and, on the other, these funds will have less resources to use in the investments. Again, in my opinion, this was not an insane contradiction, because ultimately the choice was directed at taxing at exactly the same rate all the financial assets that result in a capital gain. But here, in the Commission, with great consensus, we have done an even more interesting qualitative operation than that on IRAP and I am addressing Senator Bonfrisco in particular. Why? Because for the first time we introduce on the taxation of capital gain an explicit discrimination, fixed by law and to be implemented administratively, between the investments of these subjects, which have great financial capacities, in the real economy and medium to long term, which will be taxed at a very low rate compared to the ordinary one, and the investments of speculative nature, naturally legitimate, short-term, that do not deserve to be rewarded fiscally. Of course it is not that since they are not rewarded fiscally we do not want them to do so. They will choose, but if they choose to make medium to long-term investments on the real economy they will get the result of paying much less taxes and if they pay much less, they will make more investments and if they make more investments we will have more employment and if we have more employment we will contribute to the development of the country, of which we feel the lack at least from 2007-2008. As you can see, again in this case, through an operation which I consider to be of high quality, not by chance highlighted by a large majority vote in the Commission, we have implemented some reform. That is, we have oriented the policy of taxation on capital gains along a line that differentiates in relation to the interests of the country at stake: more aid the development rate less, less aid development and gains - there is nothing wrong - through a short-term speculative activity and pay more. This orientation is proof that if instead of arguing by slapping each other in television broadcasts, exasperating the criticism or geography of the rule and the choices of the government, one goes on the merit of the problems, one sees the contradictions and can even resolve, inaugurating guidelines of economic and budgetary policy that go in the interest of the country. For this reason, in the end, after having made all the various scenes against each other armed, we voted unanimously on these fundamental choices. The last consideration is the following, and then I finished. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But no! Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Thank you for the applause, but I would like them in the end. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do not encourage Deputy Minister Morando with a consensus that would push him to speak even more! Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. This does not mean in any way that no problems, difficulties and even serious shortcomings have emerged in the reading of the Budget Commission. We have a growing social distress in the country, which manifests itself dramatically. Only those who do not know Parliament and have never worked in the Budget Committee on the thousands of amendments think that in all that "stuff" do not pass before the country, which instead is all inside us, with its social, cultural and civil dramas. During the financial law, if you have the patience to look - and we had to and could have, because there were the way and the time - you see the Italy that passes before you, in all its social tragedy; you see the difficulties of a country that is without growth since 2008 and that has lost 10 points of income and 9.5 of product. In this context, for example, dramatic choices are required. We have also faced difficult discussions in the Commission, between one thing and another, between social drama and the other. We have been proposed the subject of entire categories of precarious workers, and I am thinking, for example, of the school workers in Palermo: we have been pressingly asked the question of how to give a minimum of safety to these hundreds of workers, who do not have any prospects at the moment. It was not possible, however, because the charges were too high in relation to the possibilities. Budgeting means making discretionary and difficult choices in a context of scarce resources: this is the budgetary choice and on the basis of this we decided not to be able to do so; we would have liked to have decided otherwise, of course. And so I could cite many other examples, especially in the area of health. Senator De Biasi, for example, proposed to us the theme - and she had sacrosanctly reason - of how to deal with it, through an orderly policy of compensation interventions... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have one minute left, Mr. Deputy Minister. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I have finished, Mr President, let me finish this concept for a moment. VOICES FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII. No, that's enough! Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. We have discussed the tragedy of those infected with infected blood during transfusions and we do not have the resources to intervene. We have committed ourselves - I have committed myself, and I want to reiterate here the commitment - both on the one hand and on the other, because in the coming weeks - not in the coming years - the government has imposed choices that concern these sectors that have a minimum of programming scope, that is, in an attempt to solve problems structurally, rather than systematically postpone them every year, hoping only in good luck. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we should now turn to the amendments and articles of the draft budget law. As the opinion of the 5th standing Commission has not yet been received, the continuation of the debate is postponed until tomorrow's sitting, convened in accordance with Rule 55 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u104	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 18 December - indeed, today, because I had asked to speak yesterday - the city council in Padua probably witnessed yet another snatch perpetrated by the mayor against my city. In 2012, in fact, mayor Flavio Zanonato had used the excuse of merging a company participated by the Municipality with Hera to decide arbitrarily the value of the same. Likewise today, the former Legist senator and current mayor of Padua Bitonci will use the same technique to sell our APS in BusItaly. It is not possible to understand, in fact, how the City Council can be expressed on an assessment of the company of the bus patavina when the city councilors who have to vote for the merger has not even been announced the industrial plan. The sworn bestowal expert has not been submitted and has not been subjected to the evaluation of the independent expert as already submitted to the sworn bestowal expert, according to article 2343 -ter of the civil code. But then, how did one decide the relationship between the two companies? On the basis of which crystal sphere should a city councilman calmly and independently express himself on a maneuver that could be harmful to citizens who daily use public transport of ODA? Why is the only study available to date that has been prepared by accountant Francesco Giordano, arrested in the context of the MOSE investigation? On June 6 of this year, Bitonci declared: Giordano is the trusted advisor of this administration. Attempts to break out of the unelected prosindac are pathetic. The Paduans must know why Rossi-Zanonato gave Francesco Giordano 172,000 euros for advice on the merger BusItalia-APS? Why have Rossi-Zanonato favored the accountant Giordano, already auditor of Acegas-APS and still President of the union college of the interporto, in quota Municipality of Padua? [[Brusio.]] Mr President, in this confusion it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u105	Senator, you understand that there are other senators who intend to intervene; you finish your speech. Time's running out. The speeches at the end of the sitting serve to point out some issues, not to decide the fate of humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u106	We have been delaying work for the needs of the government and the consequent delay in work in the Commission, and I am now in a situation where there is total disinterest in a question that is worth millions of euros. The technique used by the mayors Zanonato and Bitonci towards municipal councillors is always the same: Don't worry, vote in favour, it's okay, I guarantee. The truth is that the impact of these mergers in the lives of citizens is felt not immediately, but after two or three years. Some independent unions are already denouncing how 1.8 million kilometres will be cut and there will be a severe increase in the cost of the ticket: a vicious circle will be created that will condemn more and more those who cannot afford to move by their own means. But as with the merger of Zanonato, economic reasons were hiding clear political aims, even in this case economic reasons are muffled to hide political reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u107	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u108	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Be patient. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your time is up, so I call on you to conclude. ENDRIZZI (M5S). At all levels there is a massive transfer of the sovereignty of the municipalities on essential services towards multi-utility that will have less and less connection with the territory and more and more link with the investors. The project is the final consequence of a failed state that, thinking of settling accounts, has surrendered pieces of sovereignty to all levels day after day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u111	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, this speech is rather an appeal to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. We learn from the press that the "vizietto" to promote those who have distinguished themselves by demerit is hard to die, and this time it concerns someone within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. We are talking about the regional director for the cultural and landscape heritage of Emilia-Romagna, Mrs Carla Di Francesco, who, as we learn from the press, is investigated for facts related to the abuse of office documents for having conferred contracts in the post-sysm reconstruction to a company, whose owner has turned out to be the partner. By her own admission, the director would have entrusted as many as 18 contracts to this company, derogating - always for her own admission - because it was driven by an emerging spirit, given the emergency that came to create after the earthquake and the need to rebuild. But all this emergency has gone - it seems, the investigations will verify - in favor of these companies in which the companion appears. Well, this lady is also being investigated by the Court of Auditors. Well, in the reform that Minister Franceschini came to us to illustrate, on December 11th, the creation of a new direction, that of contemporary art, appears. Very well, we are all very happy, because in Italy contemporary art - alas - is neglected, so we applauded the creation of this new direction. However - as it happens - Mrs. Di Francesco, according to the press reports, would just go to cover the chair of executive of this new direction. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group.]] Then, because there is still time, because we are aware that the appointments have not yet been made, and because we are at a time when we are struggling with "Mafia Capitale" (Mafia Capitale), with a corrupt octopus whose tentacles are clearly insinuating - they had already crept in in the past, but it is emerging that they had crept into numerous ministries...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u112	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u113	Montevecchi (M5S). In order to avoid the possibility of unvirtuous activities within MIBAC and to circulate people dangerous for the image of MIBAC and for the good of the citizens, we ask Minister Franceschini to do an act of courage, to return to his steps, if the intention was to entrust the direction to Mrs. Carla Di Francesco... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u114	All right, senator, we get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u117	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, this is a speech that has been requested by a group of activists, who I take the opportunity to thank for preparing it for me, and it concerns the ebola epidemic in West Africa, which can only be stopped with a massive and timely intervention by those who really want to stop it. This intervention should consist of sending as many human and material resources as possible to those places, as is done when there are natural disasters (and this, until proven otherwise, is). The intervention consists in installing as much as possible dedicated field hospitals, laboratories, dedicated health equipment, logistics for the distribution of food and health personnel. From this point of view, unfortunately, only England has moved massively in Sierra Leone, but it cannot be the only one. The most prepared organisations in these situations are military, or civil protection. In Europe, there is the European Civil Protection Mechanism, which has not been activated in this case; or, if it has been, they have not done so in a manner appropriate to the scale of this tragedy. Intervention is being delegated to NGOs such as Emergency, which obviously cannot cope with the huge organisation and resources that this epidemic would require. Not to mention the sudden damage that will leave ebola as a ride from the point of view of both the economies and the health system of these areas which, in itself, is very fragile. We wonder why Europe, even though it has the means of intervention, is not using them. In this regard, I would like to ask for an urgent reminder - not just a reminder, because the epidemic is advancing - of the question 4-03108, which was signed by senators from different political groups, so not only in the 5 Star Movement. This question concerns this very issue. I would really ask for an effort on these issues, which are urgent, so that the virus does not stop, so that we can have an eye on it and report back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u120	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in Tuscany the territory of the Municipality of Castagneto Carducci in the Province of Livorno is internationally known for the beauty of the villages and for the places made famous by the poems from the pen of Giosuè Carducci, Nobel Prize winner of Italian literature. Recently the mayor and the left town council of Castagneto have approved a plan of interventions that includes the demolition of a historical pine forest and dunes in an ecologically very valuable area. A municipal administration should be the guardian of the territory and should enhance and preserve it, especially if it is uncontaminated areas and so far spared from cementification. Our country is visited by millions of tourists precisely for the beauty of the landscape, also protected by the Constitution in Article 9. A basic principle that every administrator should always remember is that it cannot be built in areas of landscape interest: the law provides it, our Constitution provides it and common sense tells us so too. Who benefits from this intervention? Castagneto Carducci's Junta on the left calls this initiative a work of redevelopment, but in reality it is more prosaically a matter of giving white paper for the construction of a parking space for 525 cars and the construction of two malls to damage the environment and the coasts. The area will be almost as large as eight football fields; there are about eight hectares concerned. If in the territory of the Municipality of Castagneto there are centuries-old historical plants, no one must have the right to destroy them, just as it cannot be accepted that for a municipal decision the cut of a pine forest can be authorized and that on these places can be built freely and wildly, paving dunes and destroying virgin woods. The dunes and their vegetation bands that are found in the Municipality of Castagneto Carducci represent a unique, immeasurable environment, whose value is very significant. Unfortunately, this happens in many parts of Italy along our coasts. While the mayor and his Junta want to intervene in an invasive way in this area, our activists and our advisor have reported this reality to us. I would therefore like to point out to this House that I have presented an act of trade union inspection to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy because he is monitoring what is happening in Castagneto Carducci. I thank all the activists and our Councillor Manrico Micheletti for the important work done in the City Council and throughout the Tuscan territory; this signal that if the citizens are active you can save our historical, cultural and landscape heritage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-367.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, December 19, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.08 a.m.
