ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. The Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I try to interpret the wishes of my fellow Members, asking for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved, by majority, changes and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of Senate work until 8 August 2014. In relation to the measures before the House, voting has been scheduled for the next few weeks from Monday morning to Friday. This afternoon, the general discussion on the constitutional bill will continue, except for the last two speeches at the afternoon sitting on Monday 21 July. Replies will take place at the same sitting. The amendments will then be discussed. During the afternoon session of Thursday 24 July, the examination of the Decree-Law on Competitiveness will be started, where concluded by the competent Commissions. In the week from 28 July to 1 August, in addition to the possible follow-up of the topics not concluded, the decree-law culture and tourism, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies and due to expire on Wednesday 30 July, and - where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies - the decree-law public administration. The calendar of the week from 4 to 8 August provides for the discussion of the decree-law on prison matters, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and the possible follow-up of unfinished topics. The timetable will also be supplemented by an examination of the internal budget and the Senate's accounts. Finally, next week's sittings may be subject to changes in relation to the possible convocation of Parliament to a joint sitting, for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the MSC.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of the Assembly until 8 August 2014: [[Thursday, July 17 pom. h. 15 - Following the constitutional bill n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum)]] In the morning of Friday 18 July, the Senate Chamber will be engaged in the meeting of the Conference of the European Union's Specialised Affairs Commissions (COSAC). [[Monday, 21 July ant. h. 11-13,30 - Following constitutional bill n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawing of law n. 1541 - Decree-Law n. 91, competitiveness (Final vote by 25 July) (It falls on 23 August) (from Thursday 24, pm.) (Ove concluded by the Commissions) " " " pom. h. 16-22 Tuesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Friday 25 " ant. h. 9,30]] The hours of the sittings may be subject to changes in relation to the possible convening of Parliament in a joint sitting. [[Monday 28 July ant. h. 11-14 - Possible follow-up of unconcluded topics - Drawing of law n. 1563 - Decree-Law n. 83, culture and tourism (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 30 July) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 90, public administration (Scade on 23 August) (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) " " " pom. h. 16-22 Tuesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Wednesday 30 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Thursday 31 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 15 Friday 1 August ant. h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Decree-Law No 90, Public Administration) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Monday, 4 August ant. h. 11-14 - Drawing of law no.... - Decree-Law No. 92, in prison matters (Scade on 26 August) (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Possible followed unfinished topics " " " pom. h. 16-22 Tuesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Wednesday 6 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 16-22 Thursday 7 " ant. h. 9,30 " " " pom. h. 15 Friday 8" ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 92 on prison matters) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The calendar will be supplemented by an examination of the internal budget and the Senate's accounts. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1541 (Decree-Law No 91, competitiveness) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 43' Mixed 37' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1563 (Decree-Law No 83, culture and tourism) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 90, Public Administration) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 92 on prison matters) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we did not vote in favour of this timetable because, by taking on board, among other things, the issues that the Government is not taking on board, we have asked that we continue next week as provided for in the previous timetable that you have approved in this House. I would like to stress this for those who do not attend the meetings of the Conference of Leaders: know that, against our opinion, since we had asked for other measures, other arrangements and other times, you had asked for next week to make the decrees - because they are running out - competitiveness and culture. You know, Mr President, why we have discussed this and there are so many representatives of the 7th Commission, whom Minister Franceschini had also asked of the opposition, since the decree-law on culture and tourism expires on 30 July and is at second reading, to withdraw the amendments and turn them into agendas, which I believe all oppositions have done. Now instead we are faced with a calendar in which the decree-law culture and tourism obviously no longer matters anything to anyone. Not only that, but we also discover that the majority is being obstructed, because those who have not withdrawn the amendments in the 7th Commission to make sure that it could not be ready for Monday are the Group of the Democratic Party and - I am told - the Group of the New Right Centre, i.e. the majority forces. I, frankly, find all this paradoxical. Of course, a similar speech concerns the competitiveness decree-law. Our alternative calendar was to return to the previous calendar, starting on Monday with the examination of the decree-law culture and tourism, to continue with the examination of the decree-law competitiveness. I also know that you and the whole House are bored, but a number of other measures were also ready, such as the famous anti-corruption bill that no longer knows what happened. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]] Instead, we find ourselves with a timetable in which the obsession with the reform race prevails. Reforms are therefore carried out, even considering the possibility of making a decree-law lapse in order to speed up, which, as usual, is very, very tight. I ask whether that is the way, I say it to you, Mr President, but I appeal to all my colleagues to respect the request made. Many speeches have been made in this House, with more or less critical positions, with requests for amendments: many colleagues today have said that, depending on the votes and the solutions that will be found on some of the amendments that have been tabled, they will decide how to vote. As is clear to everyone, therefore, there is a need for careful consideration, partly because, Mr President, in this case, if an amendment is passed and some nonsense is written, we are not talking about a decree-law. Constitutional reforms are not a decree-law, to which perhaps during the examination of the next decree-law you can put a piece. We all feel that we are constituent here, even those who - like me - should be much more modest, but we must be able to calibrate well what we are going to do, by studying the amendments. I believe, Mr President, that all senators have the right, when the files are ready (I take the opportunity to thank the offices, because the work is tiring and complicated), to look at them, to study, to decide and to have the opportunity to understand how to vote on one side and the other. Honestly, this continuous acceleration, this continuous obsession has raised me a doubt and I asked Minister Boschi and the Government if we are producing this very strong acceleration - and excuse the joke - because maybe in Europe if we give him the Senate they give us Mogherini in return. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Senators Bonfrisco and Liuzzi Groups.]] I don't know if that's what's at stake. I understand that culture is always the last of the problems in our country, it is always the last of the issues to be addressed, but we have reached the paradox that a government that has issued the decree-law can even consider the possibility of making the decree-law decay, when it asked for an act of responsibility to the oppositions and oppositions have done so. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Senators Bignami and Liuzzi Groups.]] What do we do instead? You must continue with this rhythm (do we have to get used to marching already?) to proceed quickly without having any possibility of reflection. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] Mr President, I ask the government to have at least respect for the decree-laws it issues! I would therefore ask you to restore the timetable which this House had voted on and which provided, first of all, for the examination of the cultural decree-law on Monday, to follow the timetable for competitiveness and then the anti-corruption bill, which is obviously the last of the concerns of this Government and this majority. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] We are, here as if we were a Constituent, discussing constitutional reform. The government, Renzi, must plant it, in order to obtain its small satisfactions, to continue to keep this Assembly under pressure with the times, with the rhythms and even with the proposal to work all night long! [[Live applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-ILC, Misto-MovX and Senators Scavone and Companion.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u15	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would have liked, given what happened at the Conference of Leaders, to have the Minister here for relations with Parliament, because he made certain decisions and made certain choices at that meeting, and it was right for him to confront the House. Unfortunately, it happens all too often that this Government sends the Undersecretaries, while the Ministers come, make a walkway for a quarter of an hour - twenty minutes and then go somewhere (let's remember President Renzi's famous game, I will continue to say it forever). [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] This is the second time I've attended the Conference of Leaders. The first time there was an immense optimism, the Minister had told us not to worry because the debate would last for a short time and consequently the next day we would talk about the decrees. All right, we don't talk about decrees. We have said this on more than one occasion: it is okay to face reforms, even constitutional reforms, but first we must talk about the problems of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] If the problems of the country are called competitiveness and culture and tourism, those decrees must have priority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator De Petris]] We said that on more than one occasion and we will go on saying it again. Unfortunately, however, the priority is another: it is to bring home this crappy constitutional reform as quickly as possible. It is the priority of this majority and consequently we are going against everyone and everything and we are also going against, as Senator De Petris rightly said, those who are, if not agreements, gentlemen agreements within the Commission. I am sorry for Senator Marcucci, because, as I said at the Conference of Leaders, he is a good person: he is one of those Presidents (I say this as a member of the Committee on Culture, where I admit to going little) above the parties, a person who knows what he is doing and knows how to manage the Commission. They say that and they've always said that. Well, you embarrassed him, you and your minister made him look indescribable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] Yesterday, together with the Minister, it was decided that I would withdraw the amendments and possibly return them to the Chamber. I said, however, that perhaps I would not even come back to this House, because I wanted to take away from this majority the embarrassment to put trust in a measure such as the decree on culture and tourism. Because you can't think in front of the country, coming to put trust in a decree like that. That is why I, like other colleagues, have withdrawn the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX groups.]] The majority have become a minority. The majority, the PD and the New Right Center, which does not move leaf that PD does not want, have made the minority. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). But aren't you ashamed? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the NCD, but unfortunately if the PD tells you to do one thing, you do it, and in this case you have proved it. [[Senator Sacconi's lively comments.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Ask for the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sacconi, Senator Arrigoni, let the surgery end. [[Protests from the M5S Group at Senator Sacconi's address.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). The New Right Center, which does not move leaf, in this Senate, which the PD does not want, has maintained the amendments to do obstructionism and to block the work of the Commission. Dear Sacconi, let my colleagues in the 7th Commission tell you this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] It was embarrassing for my colleague, Mr Candiani, who went to the Commission for the first time, to see the majority who opposed the majority: truly something very interesting, they will write it in the history books. Finally, what have we done at the Conference of Leaders, seen and considered - dear Sacconi - that we are the opponents, seen and considered - dear Sacconi - that we do not work for the good of this House? We made a very simple proposal: Monday we talk about culture and tourism, Tuesday we start talking about reforms, not stop, and then we talk about competitiveness and everything you want to discuss. That would have given the rapporteurs time to examine the amendments and everyone to organize the work; in the meantime we would have talked about culture and tourism, because this Government is telling us that culture and tourism are priorities. MIRABELLI (PD). That's not true! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Because this President-in-Office of the Council tells us that culture and tourism, for him, must become the flagship. MIRABELLI (PD). What are you talking about? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). As a result, we have once again put forward a constructive proposal which Mr Boschi wanted to reject, and I repeat: reject. So, let's keep it that way. We are dealing with reforms, we are dealing with 7,850 amendments and we see when you bring this constitutional reform home. Never! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u16	Senator Centinario, I'm sorry, does your proposal to change the calendar coincide with the proposal made by Senator De Petris? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President, yes, that's the same as Senator De Petris. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask you for the vote. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'll tell you one thing anyway. Carry on with your proposal, we begin to deal with the amendments and we will have fun. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, I didn't give you the floor to do another surgery. I only asked you to clarify your proposal for a change in the timetable for the work. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). One minute of amendment, as you wish, and we'll have fun. President, I am not a dad yet, nor is it a grandpa, but if we move forward with your method of work, perhaps I will become a great-grandfather before I see this reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u17	[[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-ILC and Senator Bonfrisco groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u20	MARTON (M5S). In the meantime we note that we finally want to work from Monday to Friday, and that is good news. In addition to agreeing with what Senator De Petris and colleague Centinario have just said, I must say that I am extremely embarrassed. I would particularly like to address my colleagues in the PD. Minister Boschi came to the Conference of the Leaders and said that, according to you and therefore according to the Government, it is necessary to... [[Senator Marton interrupts his intervention. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u21	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u22	MARTON (M5S). ...to give continuity to constitutional reform. How does constitutional reform continue? On Monday the last speeches of the general discussion take place and then there is the Government's reply. From Monday to Thursday we shall vote on the amendments and then we shall vote on the competitiveness decree. Then maybe... (Senator Marton interrupts again). [[Brusio]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You can't hear anything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, the interest in your speech will surely make everyone quiet. MARTON (M5S). She doesn't hear it, but I hear the buzz. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It means that the House is deaf. MARTON (M5S). If Senator Sacconi threatens the League, he can kill him, not here in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, as I said, the amendments are voted on from Monday to Thursday. In the meantime, you must discuss with President Boldrini about the vote of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or anything else, where an agreement can be reached. Then, the additional decrees come from the House and resumes to pieces and bits to deal with the amendments. Right? I made an account in the group leaders, being of a hallucinating simplicity, which is the following: even if we worked from Monday morning until 8 August 24 hours a day, we will have six minutes to amend. If this is the way to make a constitutional reform, gentlemen, really good luck! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I repeat, six minutes per amendment, I am sorry, I miscounted it: it is 3 minutes and 30 minutes. What's the proposal? You always counter us by saying that we are not proactive and that we have no sense of responsibility. Looks to me like the government's totally gone crazy. I repeat: he's totally out of control and crazy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Gentlemen, you are doing a constitutional reform between a football match, a lunch and so on, giving an amendment that could change people's lives by three minutes. Are these the attention and your sense of responsibility? Is that what you really want? I don't know - at this point I also doubt it; I don't want to offend you, but I doubt it - if you know what's going on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I don't want to offend you and, therefore, I will try to be even more calm. Mr President, in connection with the examination of constitutional reform, I propose the following: let us take the time we need, let us postpone it until September, when we return. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us take the right time to evaluate the decrees: first those that expire and then those that arrive. If there is time left, by August 8th (since you would like to make your holidays August 8th), we put the anti-corruption measure in place. In my opinion, these are much more useful things for the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The proposal, therefore, is as follows: from Monday decree culture, with time, also from previous calendar, after which the decree competitiveness and those who arrive. If there is time, unfinished business: let us introduce the anti-corruption measure and postpone constitutional reforms in September. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u25	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I want to be an appeal on the basis of the speeches I have been able to hear; above all an appeal for an assessment of you, as President of the Senate, of the fact that we are here and we have to judge, in the background, the work of amending the Constitution, that is, a work of sharing principles. It is certainly very difficult to understand that we may find ourselves willing to share principles when we seem to turn the most obvious things into the method. We have in this House the opposition that defends the calendarization of decrees desired by the Government and, at the same time, we have an unwillingness (which I do not understand if it is of the Senate or if, instead, it is of the Government) towards a reasonable time of the constitutional debate. Then I appeal to everyone. I believe that if we went to discuss our decrees according to the reasonable requirements that the country has, aimed at the urgency of these decrees, we would give all possible cooperation in the evaluation of the amendments and the time of the amendments, when we will place the discussion of the amendments in due course. In this sense, I believe that it is Senator De Petris' proposal, and Mr Marton's proposal, that should be taken into account according to the simplest criterion: a new spirit. In fact, without a constituent spirit it will be difficult to make a shared Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u28	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking not personally, but as a group. I would just like to make the House clear that it does not correspond to what Senator Centinario said about our position in the Committee on Culture. There is no amendment of ours: there are only agendas, widely shared with the senators of the Northern League Group for some content. But this can happen if, of course, participation in the Commission's work is occasional. I hope that relations with the parent company Centinario will improve, as I wish him fatherhood as soon as possible. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u31	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have two points to make. The first is that, subject to the timetable that you have read and what will be the outcome of the voting on alternative proposals, I want it to remain in the records that that system must be modified if we cannot reach an agreement with the House of Members that allows the rapporteurs to read the amendments. I refuse, in fact, to express opinions on what I have not read. If, as seems to be the case, the amendments will be available from Monday morning, I would like to have time to do a serious job (and I believe the same applies to my colleague). Otherwise, the collaborative spirit changes. Secondly, having listened to Mr Marton's speech and then to Senator Mauro's speech, I would like to reiterate that, having included in the calendar of the following weeks the continuation of the discussion of the unfinished topics, there is no quota on reforms in the state of the art. That's what I want you to do. So let us not count the times, because we are not facing this situation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u32	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Centinario is similar to that of Senator De Petris, and therefore will not be put to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Marton, which contains a small variation relating to the postponement to September of the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u35	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to refer to Vice-President Calderoli, who I believe was also speaking on behalf of President Finocchiaro. He represented their position in case it is true that the approximately 7,800 amendments will be delivered to them on Monday morning. The same principle applies to us. If you consider that, after the general debate and the replies have been made, it seems to me that the timetable provides for the afternoon sitting to begin at 4.30 p.m. with the votes, if I have understood correctly... PRESIDENT. - The debate is The timetable is for the beginning of the sitting at 4 p.m., if I recall correctly. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Better. I expect the rapporteurs to be in the Chamber at 11 a.m. and that this work, i.e. to compare, analyse and evaluate the amendments, can be done in a manner worthy of merit from 1.30 p.m. to 4 p.m. I would ask you, Mr President, if it is not the case instead of providing, at the end of the general debate and after the replies, sufficient time for the whole House to be able to read the amendments. Mine does not want to be a request for postponement, Mr President, it is not by chance that I am doing it now, but it puts us in a position - and I leave it to you to determine how - to be able to do an important job, because there is still a great deal to do on the text which the Commission has laid off. If we do not give the rapporteurs a chance, once a framework has been created, on the basis of all the declarations and discussions that have taken place, to get their own conviction on what is still missing in this reform and on what perhaps it is necessary for it to be revised and amended, I believe that we are not doing a good job; therefore, in order really to organize our work better (we will certainly be in the Chamber at 4 p.m. as we will be at 11 a.m.), I believe that a period of time should be given to the House to assess, amendment by amendment, the possibility of improving the text, because the text needs improvements. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u38	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, since the competitiveness decree is scheduled in this House for next week, I simply ask you whether it is possible to reopen the deadline for tabling amendments, at least until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u39	The Presidency will assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u40	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general debate continued in the afternoon sitting. Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u41	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thirty years ago, a man came into the nation's first political line, taking up minority thesis in the constitutional debate, and he proposed a great reform - as he called it - with the aim of speeding up the decision-making processes and consolidating the authority of the state in its relationship with its citizens and with other states. It already indicated the reasons for this in the speed acquired by the dynamics of economies and peoples, exalted by emerging interrelational phenomena. He compared our democracy to a horse carriage in the time of the carriers that already crossed the barrier of sound. He was then widely accused of authoritarianism by a policy still conditioned, after four decades, by the experience of dictatorship and by less noble opportunisms on the basis of which one should not be able to govern without a preventive negotiation with the opposition. Imagine then how motivated it can be today to change our obsolete institutional facility who then participated in the defeat of that attempt. But, nevertheless, you can easily imagine how all the senators and senators of the New Right Centre live this historic parliamentary passage with the emotion and responsibility of wanting to be among the new constituents, and this is because we have largely participated in an attempt at reform, nine years ago, which was opposed by the myopia of the political left then, until the referendary rejection, in a particular emotional context. But for all of us it is worth the consonance between this reform and our political culture, that of a movement that ideally connects to the historical right and has given itself as a mission the reconstruction of the cohesion of the Nation, the affirmation of its founding principles, the reconstitution of the unitary state after the processes of disintegration determined in the last two decades. In our political culture all this is held, because a Constitutional Charter must be supported by a background of shared principles - and for this reason we do not question that Part I that recognizes the value of life and of the natural family - and then from a widespread aspiration to the primacy of democracy on particular interests; hence the will to make it ruler, simplifying the decision-making paths, reducing unnecessary burdens, bringing back to one the polymorphic state. For this reason we consider it necessary to complement that direct election of the Head of the Nation which thirty years ago was the heart of the great reform. We are convinced that this first step objectively lays the foundations for it, which can then be developed in a framework of weights and counterweights at that point, obviously, even more necessary. We strongly want the unity of the nation, also through an institutional figure who, by reason of direct election, is naturally called to represent everyone and not only the part of origin. We have been protagonists of the path that has led us to this phase of work in the Assembly starting from the act of which we bear almost exclusive merit: to have allowed the continuity of the legislature to the point of not joining Forza Italia, continuing the experience of the People of Freedom in a new political formation. The New Right Center believed that the fundamental reason for the continuity of the legislature was precisely the reform of the State, as an act useful to reconnect a disoriented society with its institutions and to rebuild a circuit of trust that can only support the same propensity to consume and undertake in our country. We have also expressed two fundamental concerns in this regard. The first concerned the possibility that the perfect bicameralism, kicked out of the door, falls from the window in a version worsened by the disproportion between the degree of representativeness of the senators and the powers conferred upon them. The second refers to the primacy of national interest over regional and local autonomy whose sovereignty cannot in any way be unlimited, as has sometimes been the formation of debt in regions and municipalities. We are satisfied with the changes made with regard to the representativeness of the senators, although we would have preferred direct election, as we proposed in our bill. However, there remains a remaining form of perfect bicameralism with reference to the power of the Senate over the state budget as the requests for correction would lead to the enhanced procedure in the Chamber of Deputies, with foreseeable problems related to the vocation to spending of mayors and regional councillors. For this reason our amendment will propose to bring back to coherence that, although improved, degree of representativeness of the senators, with a power of the Senate of its own, that in no way returns to being perfectly equal with the Chamber of Deputies, with reference - I insist - to the budget of the State, whose approval is an act that connects closely to that of trust with the Government. I would like to point out here that we remain among the not many Western democracies who do not regard the state budget as the exclusive act of the Commission, which Parliament can approve or not, but without that intensive codecisional process that has long characterized us. We also ask for corrections with regard to the relationship between the State, the Regions and the Municipalities. We are very satisfied, because the Commission has introduced those standard costs and requirements which tend to be more efficient among those practised, which were included in the law on fiscal federalism and which deserve constitutional codification, precisely because they constitute the pivot of the limited sovereignty of the Regions and of the Municipalities and constitute the premise for that power of the State - which we ask is provided for in the text through our amendment - which consists of the Commissariat of the Regions, and of course also of the Municipalities, in the event of a structural imbalance of their budgets, measured above all on those costs and those standard requirements. Similarly, we call for local public services to be competed in all cases where public management is inefficient (and I challenge anyone to argue that there is efficient management of local public services, managed directly by local administrations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Sacconi. SACCONI (NCD). I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore the bearers of a few changes, inspired by the reconstruction of the unitary state, after the disastrous consequences of the constitutional reform of 2001, which the left wanted to produce even with a few - very few - votes of difference in Parliament, on the eve of the electoral victory of the center-right. We will ask for a confirmation referendum on this reform, even in the absence of the requirements of the current Constitutional Charter, because we need a strong popular participation in the new Republic, as well as, within the electoral law that we will then examine, we will insist on calling for a return to the vote of preference, because it is a tool for empowering voters, and there is no fear of disease that can cause us to be wary of the people and of the power that we must put in his hands, in order to be able to choose the elected ones. We feel distinct and distant from that part of the Democratic Party, or rather from the old Communist Party, which opposes this reform and which has those characteristics - without offense, but are objectively recognizable - of anchoring to that old conception of our democracy, which determined the recurrent accusations of authoritarianism against Bettino Craxi, as well as those characteristics of justiceism or secularism, which do not belong to us and from which we are strongly distant. The convergence we have with Forza Italia on reforms is significant and we hope that it will also take place on electoral reform. In short, moments like this are watersheds and can determine the encounter of reformisms as well as determine their distance from radicalisms and conservatisms. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Zanda and Russo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when considering this reform, it is necessary to reflect on the role of the constitutional legislator of 1948, on the historical period and on the reasons for drawing up the constitutional architecture, in our country, in one sense rather than another. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The image handed down is that of an attentive, responsible and prudent legislator. In an Italy, which came out torn apart from the two world wars, the souls of the Resistance intended to design a constitutional system composed of weights and counterweights both between the different legislative, executive and judicial powers, both in the composition of their own organs, but above all guaranteeing participation and representativeness to the Italian people. One direction has been travelled rather than another on the basis of the idea of preventing democracy and the serenity of a people from being put at risk by the delusions of the size of a single person, of preventing, in essence, a rule of law from being replaced by a police state. The guideline was to prevent one power from overpowering another. If this reflection on the role of the constituent had actually been carried out by the government today, the words "prudence" and "responsibility" should be recalled in this House. Do we believe that the draft law that we are asked to vote on is the result of a responsible attitude? Do we think that the rules imposed on us in the Commission by the Boschi-Renzi bill, by means of a privileged lane, are driven by a prudent attitude? The answer to both questions is certainly negative. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] (Following MANGILI). Unfortunately, what is being consumed in these days is another hard blow to democracy. In fact, after the Italian people have been deprived of the right to choose their own representative, the Government, with its President at the head, through the reform of the Senate, is ready to strike a further blow to representative democracy, modifying the Senate both in its functions and in its composition, without abolishing it. The Senate of the Republic, in fact, will not be abolished, contrary to what so far many have understood, but will be reduced both in its composition and in its functions. We will certainly not be in front of the Upper House! It will not happen and there will be that huge savings in expenditure so proclaimed that, from a billion, it has risen to about 500 million and today, we discover, it is quantified in about 80 million euros. To be precise, the allowance item is only a fraction of the total cost of the institutions. Most of the costs are the management of buildings, services and staff. Responsible and prudent reform would have pushed the legislator to eliminate those more substantial expenditure items and reduce the less incisive ones. On the other hand, all expenditure items affecting the Senate budget are retained and the presence of members elected by the people is eliminated, who must act in the name of the public interest, replacing them with a group of nominees who will only oppose the interests dictated by the territorial institutions they belong to. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] All this - it is repeated - only to eliminate the single item: compensation. We have always been at the forefront, so that through every reform the increasing reduction of public spending can be achieved but the savings obtained through the transformation of the Senate into a B-series Chamber, composed of regional councillors appointed within their Councils, a mayor in the Region and five members appointed by the President of the Republic, does not seem reasonable to us compared to the deficits that would suffer the procedures of participation of democracy. We agree that the Senate should be reformed from the point of view of the administration and organization of the structure, avoiding waste and privileges to its members, but surreal are the motivations that would encourage the Government to empty the Senate of all its prerogatives. The cause of all evil, according to government sources, is now the perfect bicameralism, which would make the legislative process cumbersome, causing unjustified delays in the parliamentary process and, in some cases, even causing backward steps rather than forwards. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These reasons are denied by the content of the Senate database, from which it can be learned that the legislative activity is so flooded, but by the use of the government's unholy decree of urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The perfect bicameralism had to be replaced by a system that would have guaranteed participation and balance between the two rooms, even if with different functions, both characterized by equal authority and electiveity. It is not far away, in fact, the moments when the double reading, necessary for the approval of legislative texts, prevented the completion of abuses, such as blocking the dangerous derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution, or the norm that would sanction the municipalities anti-slot-machines or, again, as occurred in the past legislature, the blocking of the Alfano praise in its first formulation or the approval of the so-called gag law. Emptying the Senate of the Republic of all its functions would allow this Government to take another step forward towards a plebiscite democracy, de facto surrendering all destiny into the hands of an oligarchy and eliminating, in synergy with the electoral law, any sign of representativeness for which this democracy in the Charter has always distinguished itself. It is quite clear that the reform of the Senate, together with the electoral reform, will transfer all power to a single political force, if not even to a single party secretary, who will gain control of the House, control of the Executive, the appointment of the President of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, even at the expense of those minorities who will be excluded from the distribution of seats, although they have contributed to the achievement of the barrier threshold planned to obtain the majority prize. It should be added that the same political force, determining the election of the President of the Republic, will influence the appointment of five other senators, also affecting, if necessary, the formation of the majority in the Senate. Entering into the heart of the text of the reform, the proposal to include the guillotine instrument in the Constitution, which we are talking about today, cannot go unnoticed. These observations should lead each of us to contribute so that this text, as conceived, does not have light and takes place, instead, to a long reflection on how to modify the constitutional architecture of the State. The revival of the country certainly does not depend on the reform of the Senate, which for the President of the Council, instead, has become a matter of life or death. That is certainly not what Europe is asking us: this is just a lie that the Government is shielding itself from. There are other reforms that should be pursued. Firstly, reforms should be aimed at easing the limits of the Stability Pact, not the composition of constitutional bodies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Similarly, we should focus on the rules necessary to ensure growth and employment, such as the law on conflict of interest and anti-corruption, in order to put in motion a sector now considered by all to be a failure. However, we have repeatedly expressed our opinion on how to reform Parliament in its entirety, without distorting its constitutional balance, reducing the costs of policy in practice. It is essential to reduce the number of parliamentarians, to be operated in both chambers, just as it is appropriate to balance the relationship between the number of parliamentarians and that of senators. Parliament, moreover, in its composition, should be kept clean by convicted persons, through the inclusion of specific rules of incandidability. In addition, it would be appropriate to include the limit of two parliamentary mandates in order to allow a continuous replacement of the national political class. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With regard to the cuts in the costs of the policy that the Government continues to announce, we have already shown that this is possible and even immediately with half wages, the compulsory reporting of the diary and the return of what is not spent, the abolition of the office allowance, the abolition of the end-of-term cheque beyond, clearly, the actual abolition of public funding to parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The minimum threshold of signatures required for the People's Initiative Act from 50,000 to 250,000 should be raised, as has been pointed out several times in this House, as it is detrimental to popular participation. In the face of a general and unconfirmed commitment to the content of the legislative approval process, the citizens are being pushed away from the institutions once again. The government forgets, in proposing these changes, the numerous battles that have allowed us to determine in our legal system choices on divorce, on the public financing of parties or the no to nuclear, or to make sure that water remains public, battles that have seen every citizen contribute with their own vote and direct initiative. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Before concluding, I would like to make a heartfelt appeal to all those in this House who want to prevent our Charter from being recklessly and irresponsiblely distorted. There's no alternative. It is necessary to be self-directed, to have visions, to take responsibility and to take positions, even uncomfortable, without being dependent on internal and external conditioning. Renunciation would mean taking sides and being complicit in an authoritarian and involutive power. We will do everything to ensure that the constitutional system that our founding fathers have passed on to us remains unscathed in this House, because for us, politics is a service to hope - individual and collective - is a civil passion. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at such an important time for our parliamentary history, as is the time of constitutional reform, I believe it is necessary for all senators to express their opinion, externally their point of view, to show their thoughts about this reform system that is being submitted to us, but they also express their views on the way in which this law of profound reform of our fundamental Charter is dealt with. I like to call it that: the fundamental Charter, because in the days of the school they taught me that when we talk about the Constitution we must approach it with much respect and much delicacy, because this Charter is not only a container of norms to be able to change at will, depending on the various governments that follow, let alone a set of principles to be bent to the conveniences of the Trans-European Power, but it is a Charter full of ethical values, which have to do with the life of an entire people. I belong to a generation who studied the Constitution at school and who memorized the adjectives to define its characteristics: written, rigid, long, voted, compromise, democratic and programmatic. Of these characteristics I have been present in my parliamentary life above all in rigidity and democracy. That is why witnessing today some disrespectful approach - let me say this - to the Constitution causes me some discomfort. It is an inconvenience that I want to react quickly in this House and outside this House, with a serene confrontation with the other senators, especially those who do not think like me, wielding the weapons of the persuasive word - if I can - of common sense, of reason, of thought, in the consciousness that an alternative to this reformer plant of no value is possible. I will endeavour, ladies and gentlemen, to give this debate a content of reflection with the necessary humility and respect I have just mentioned. I have listened with interest to many speeches that have followed so far in this House, and I, like so many of you, have experienced an unprecedented haste, incompatible with any reform activity and close to a dizzying anxiety to provide, we do not know who, a belly response and not a head response. It may be that history proceeds through courses and recourses, but once again we are confronted with those who claim a great constitutional reform, from which the solution of a large part is dependent, if not of all the great problems that grip our Italy, moreover, in the context of a crisis that has been affecting the whole European continent for years. However, reforms are necessary and are done for high objectives, for the purposes of improving the functioning of the institutions and not for saving objectives, as has also been mentioned; they are done to better implement the fundamental principles underlying the Constitution and not to pursue objectives for the collection of electoral consensus. Above all, it must be made clear that important parts of the Constitution cannot be turned over without substantial waste in chains on other parts of the Constitution too, which should be the subject of a certainly not hasty reflection. One-by-one analysis of all the weaknesses of this reform is not possible in a single intervention, but I hope that there will be a way and a way of doing this analysis, perhaps in the context of the amendments. Today I want to focus only on two aspects that I consider fundamental and preparatory to any other speech. First of all, there is the anxiety to overcome bicameralism by effectively retiring the Senate. I'll be told that's not the case, but it's basically the case. Well, I recognize myself among those who do not feel this anxiety of overcoming it, perhaps because, having a few more years of President Renzi and Minister Boschi, I remember, also in virtue of the practice of the institutions, that the main function that is attributed to our parliamentary system is contained in a precise concept: the guarantee. There is no doubt that in the design of weights and counterweights of our form of parliamentary government, the Senate was called to play essentially a role as a guarantee against the dangers of democratic absolutism and state centralism of a single-chamber order. The Senate, precisely because it is characterized by a regional election, is called to ensure in Parliament another type of political representation, legitimized by the living forces that are expressed in the territories. It is a necessary representation, even for the dramatic crisis of traditional political parties, victims of two great devastations: the first for the erosion of ideological glue capable of promoting a reflective political action among citizens; the second for reduction in the parties of the leader's central charism as the only unifying element. In this context, in fact, the consciousness and political representation of territorial communities constitutes a strong guarantee against the degeneration in a monarchical sense of national public power. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the Senate is necessary and can be modified, but not beyond a certain limit, not to the point of preventing it from being that cornerstone of the constitutional guarantees that it has always been. All the discourse on the necessity of the second Chamber must, therefore, rotate around the concept of warranty. A political guarantee which, of course, creates a strong point of reference for all the other guarantees of the system; and a guarantee against the risks of a legislative radicalism such as that proposed to us by this reform and which is also expressed by the insufficient weighting for the fact that the decisions in this regard have been taken in a very closed circuit. The role of constitutional guarantee of the Senate must therefore find effective both in its composition and in concrete terms integrate with the territorial point of view the representative capacity of the Chamber of Deputies, and in the allocation of specific parliamentary functions (political investiture, legislation, coordination and inspection) capable of tempering the decision-making monism of a single Chamber. But the Senate's role as a constitutional guarantee does not mean equal bicameralism. The experience of the latest legislation has indeed shown, and we are all aware of it, serious imbalances that have caused serious repercussions on the time of hesitation of the laws and also on the governability. On the other hand, by failing the proportional electoral rules, parliamentary dualism has caused unbearable disruptions in the form of government. There is therefore a need for a change in bicameralism, but not in the sense of demeaning the Senate, as we want to do here, but in the sense that a differentiated bicameralism is necessary and this cannot mean absolutely the exclusion of the Senate from the parliamentary functions that it has carried out so far. It must mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the exercise of these functions should be remodelled, that it must innovate in the structure in order to achieve greater territorial integration of representation and that the Senate must be elected and that the representatives of the territories must be chosen directly by the citizens. Dear colleagues, more than dismantling! Instead, it is necessary to preserve the Senate, a Senate that maintains certain legislative functions both ordinary and constitutional and that maintains other non-legislative functions also based on the evolution of national and European law. In the light of these considerations it is obvious that the accusations that are made to those who raise the issue of the senate's guarantee function (i.e. the accusations of conservatism of the armchair) are bound to fall miserably into the void. Sometimes I get the impression that you turn to the senators like a coven of ganglia attached to the scranno that wants to last forever. But I say, do we realize that we're all passing through here? Do we realize that we do not even have the availability of our own life? And here we have the presumption of proposing reforms not in view of the good of future generations, but of our own little, precarious present who certainly does not honour anyone who wants to take the title of legislator. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] Sometimes you hear the word "cooler" speaking? Yes, if that means protecting a true democracy to be passed on to future generations. Conservative? Yes, if that means not betraying the spirit of the Constitution. A firm opponent of this reform? Yes, if this means making a conscientious contribution to avoiding authoritarian drifts and allowing the sovereign people to choose their own representatives. This is the ideal battle to be waged: the battle on representation. It is therefore not possible to endorse the faded power that would result from a Senate composed of regional councillors and mayors. This proposal not only offends the Senate institution, but offends the fundamental principle of the Constitution itself, Article 1, which reads: Sovereignty belongs to the people. An indirect election of senators would be unacceptable to the fundamental principle of Article 1 of the Constitution and should therefore be considered unconstitutional, not to be taken into account. The sovereignty of the people requires that the construction of the order be reserved precisely for those who are sovereign and democracy always attributes, I always say, the creation of the right to the people or its direct representatives. Direct and unmediated representatives. At this point I hope that the Government will have the will to read the Reports and, therefore, the speeches being made in this House. If he did, he would understand that there are so many contributions to think about and that reforms are being made in Parliament and with Parliament and not under the alleged legitimacy of the Premier resulting from the election result of the European elections. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Bravo! Milo (GAL). I must say that this constant and continuous reference by the President-in-Office of the Council to this notorious 40% who would be responsible for making constitutional reforms is neither in heaven nor on earth. I would just like to remind President Renzi that 40% of Europeans translate into 11 million votes, exactly the same number of votes that Veltroni got when he lost the elections against Berlusconi and then Renzi speaks of the 11 million votes, not 40% and stop saying that this result is a title to upset and degrade the Constitution to the detriment of our country and our citizens. Moreover, this is the other absurd assertion that the reform of the Constitution requires Europe to do so. But does Renzi really think he's dealing with stupid people? Do you really think that the legitimacy of an executive in Europe depends on reform? But instead, President Renzi thought that he would seek popular legitimacy for what he can and will do in terms of unemployment, employment, pensions, public debt, fiscal pressure and immigration. And then there's a real problem with the procedure being put in place. We start with the initiative of the Government, which gets into Parliament's life, deciding what and how to upset, dictating times, terms, procedures and conclusions, but I ask you: in what capacity, with what legitimacy? And to us, ladies and gentlemen, as long as they tell us: Yes, whatever, but is it always Parliament that decides? To me honestly this is not enough. Here the Government has decided in a completely indisputable way to initiate the debate in Parliament on the reform of the Constitution, but it has not come in humility, in the spirit of cooperation between powers. He came here with the arrogance of his own texts, aiming, and not even so veiledly, to strengthen his own position, but not because he thinks, conceptually, for the good of our country we must endow ourselves with a stronger executive power, but because today the head of the Executive is called Renzi, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore it is fitting that the Executive is stronger. But can this kind of reasoning be subjugated? The point, however, is that whatever the size of the reform plan that is being pursued, and even more so when we talk about such a significant reform, it can only pass with calm, time and humility through the confrontation and if necessary of the clash with the parliamentarians and therefore seek an agreement between the subjects who must then ensure the true rendering on the level of the establishment of the new rules. Let us come to the other requirement that would move from this assumption of reform: saving, cutting the costs of politics. That is a wrong answer to a bad question. No one is allowed to touch the Constitution for reasons of savings. Save and cut on what? About democracy? By keeping the number of MPs to 630 and reducing the number of senators to 100 and effectively dismantling the Senate? That is unacceptable. The savings could have been achieved simply by drastically reducing the number of senators and Members of the House, without creating imaginative architectures at the expense of democracy. If the Government is really interested in working together with Parliament for an organic reform, credible, respectful of the spirit of the Constitution, come to the House daily, until the end of the work; have the patience and humility to listen to us all, to be open to criticism and to put in place a constructive spirit. Conversely, each of us will be legitimated to think that other goals are those that animate this excited race for a headless reform, with the warning, however, that the game will inevitably be discovered. On the other hand, and I conclude, President, Popper wrote: If democracy is destroyed, all rights are destroyed; even if certain economic advantages enjoyed by the rulers were maintained, they would only be destroyed on the basis of resignation. I hope this is never the case for the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I owe a great deal of my civil passion and vocation to the service in politics to the history of a small group of young professors who represented one of the most vibrant and innovative realities of the Constitution, animated by a very deep friendship, by a spirit of service that reflected also by an exemplary sobriety of life, by a deep faith that did not prevent them from being protagonists of the extraordinary and fruitful encounter of cultures that bore, at least in its first part, one of the most beautiful Constitutions in the world. I have thought several times about what we would be told in these days: those of the community of piggy-dogs, Dossetti, Lazzati, Moro, La Pira, but also Calamandrei, Nenni or Togliatti: men who had the strength and foresight to imagine a national state capable of healing wounds and deep divisions and accompanying the popular masses to democracy, working - without lingering or turning back - on a constitutional charter that never thought due or looked with nostalgic eyes to the pre-fascist season, but wanted innovative because new times required new tools. I believe that they would invite us above all to have courage, the courage to put - as they did - new wine in new bottles, to defend the principles of participation and democracy without nostalgia for even noble twentieth-century models, to use the imagination that serves to build the future and not to embalm the institutions of the past, whose failure today pushes to a reformative anxiety with even emergent traits. I want to say it frankly. There is a prospective error in many also qualified speeches that I have heard during these days. It is not this reform that undermines the credibility and functioning of the institutions. It is not the rules on which we are debating that have alienated citizens from voting, which have removed authority from representative assemblies, which have prompted public opinion to rely sometimes uncritically on populist leadership. The reverse is true. We are working, today, with the ambition to give new places and new spaces to the participation and protagonism of citizens in a crisis that is short-sighted not to recognize in all its gravity. A few days ago Ilvo Diamanti put us in front of the imposition of a policy that, in our country, is characterized by being increasingly immediat, that is, faster and faster, but also less and less intermediate, in which the leadership tries to assert itself without or despite intermediate bodies, parties, newspapers, unions. It is not authoritarianism that I have heard too many times mention with excess of ease even in these days, but it is certainly a change of paradigm compared to the ways in which one participated in the life of the city of man in that second post-war period that gave rise to our Charter. Today ours - the most attentive observers teach us this - is a liquid society, living from the protagonism (and increasingly often) of individualist loneliness; societies of public opinion ready to sudden changes of orientation, often at the mercy of increasingly pervasive media, not yet able to manage the potentialities and risks of a technology that has changed our lives. I wonder as a father and a professional educator. Have we really taken into account, by writing new rules that should facilitate the participation of citizens, the difficulty of educating the struggle of democracy, its mediations and its difficult but necessary compositions of different interests and needs, the younger generations? I am referring to those grown up in a perennial interconnection and in an increased ability to acquire information, but they risk deceiving themselves with respect to the real ability to understand all processes or to be able to govern or modify them instantly; just like - I see it looking at my children - as you do by changing television transmission with a remote control, eliminating with a click an unwelcome interlocutor from Messenger or Twitter or coming out of a difficult situation with a skilful move to a video game. Generations (look, we are not just talking about teenagers) are getting wider, so - we must be aware of this - the work of discussion and composition of almost 8,000 amendments, to which we are approaching after three months of work, appears (but it would also be after a week of work) superfluous and out of the world, like a court dance of the decadent Versailles of Maria Antonietta. On another level I wonder - on the other hand - if we have made all the necessary efforts to go to the heart of the problem, asking ourselves also at home - as did a few weeks ago the weekly magazine "The Economist" in a complex dossier - "what did not work with democracy" and "what went wrong" compared to a process that seemed irreversible in the twentieth century and that today is increasingly at risk at global level. On the other hand, let us just think for a moment what it means, in cultural terms, that China, the largest country with the highest growth rate in the world, for the first time in history shows that democracy is not necessary and - indeed - can be a brake on economic development and well-being. Requested to choose between a strong economy and a free democracy, 80% of the Russians, in a recent survey, chose the first option. Are we sure that our citizens, in a time of crisis, do not risk, in front of institutions that do not know how to renew their deep sense and their efficiency, to give the same answer? In order to try to answer these questions, I would like to briefly mention two proposals which are also the subject of amendments tabled here with broad agreement across the board. The first has as its object the possibility of including the proposed referendum in our system. In the Commission we have made the institutions of the People's Initiative Act and the repealing referendum more rational, trying to make them - again - instruments of direct participation more accessible and capable of bringing citizens closer to an institutional protagonism that has failed in recent years. Now we can take one step further, defining norms that open further spaces of democracy and channel in an institutional path the legitimate desire of the citizen to say his own, without leaving it to the illusionary and often frustrating prospect of handing over to the web alone traces of his own beliefs. In the same direction, there is a proposal from my colleague, Mr Palermo, who, alongside the institutions of direct democracy, welcomes in the Constitution the reference to participatory democracy which has seen important and significant experiences grow, especially at local level. The second amendment, which I am presenting with the support of colleagues from almost all the groups in this House, is linked to the ambition of giving the new Senate, alongside the Chamber of Self-Government, a clear and strong European vocation. If there is a responsibility, which many feel, with respect to the future of our country, it is to help Italy to get out of its own provincialism and the illusion of self-sufficiency, recovering a strong bond with the world that often runs at twice the speed of ours. It is also a limit of our institutions, which, through a specialization of the new Senate, we would like to offer a qualified place of interface with that European Union on which any chance of our international protagonism depends. A second House star in the ascending and descending phase of European legislation, which carries out functions of liaison with the Union, in particular with the bodies of the European Parliament, and of analysis and evaluation of legislative acts, policies, procedures and decisions. A Senate, that is, fully capable of interpreting the forecasts of the Treaty of Lisbon, in a particular way - as President Finocchiaro well recalled - and for once innovative and in advance of other Community partners. A Senate able to represent excellence in the international scene, enhancing the skills of its structure, really put in a position to compete with the best bureaucracies at international level and to guarantee a qualified contribution where decisions really matter. A Senate - let me tell you - in which the parties are finally moved to perform a renewed ruling class, able to speak foreign languages, rich in European sensitivity and international experience. To those who fear the imbalances in the new bicameral system, I would point out, in this regard, that perhaps more than in a Senate that is holding back the House, the guarantee of adequate weights and balances will be in the balance between regional, national and European powers and in the perspective of providing citizens with broad areas of democracy in those United States of Europe which represent the horizon of our commitment. The reasons that drive me to consider this reform necessary, urgent and no longer postponed to overcome an impasse that has prevented us for too many decades to update our rules to the world that changed around us, do not prevent me from seeing the profiles certainly perfectible. I too, with many other colleagues, in a common commitment to facilitating the reform process, have pointed out from the beginning the risk that the first hypotheses in question would lead to degrade the role of this House, at the risk of simply becoming a State-Regions conference hosted by a historic and prestigious headquarters. The possibility that the President of the Republic would be removed from his role as guarantor and become the expression of the mere political majority, the risk that the new senators, not because they were elected indirectly, but because of the coincidence of functions, were not and are not able to perform the important functions that in the meantime have been entrusted to the new Senate. And again the danger of the combined arrangement with an electoral law that must certainly be changed in many respects, especially in order to return to the citizens the protagonism in the choices of their representatives. But I'm confident. Much has been done to overcome those limits and we will be able to do much. We are only at the beginning of a "constitutional revolution," a profound change of national and international institutions which, I am sure, will characterize the coming decades. I would like to end by thanking the rapporteurs, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Calderoli. Because of their commitment and because the most ingenious criticisms concern the work that would not have been done in these weeks, in a succubus Parliament and resigned to a supposed totalitarian will of the Government. I would urge all of us not to endorse this magnifying argument, because it makes all of us a figure we do not deserve; because it forgets that we started discussing this measure on 8 April, we talked about it for weeks in the Commission, with about 70 speeches, about thirty hearings and 4,600 amendments addressed. For four days now we have been in the Chamber, with 30 hours of debate, almost 100 speeches and a further 8,000 amendments. But, above all, because it pretends not to see that, thanks to the work of the rapporteurs, it is precisely in that debate - and through the normal dialectic with the Commission - that the core of the many amendments that have made the text very different from the basic text, richer and able to respond positively to the concerns of those who have criticized the reform more harshly. What we are about to vote on is not the text of the Nazarene, as I have heard it repeat to boredom these days. It is the text of Palazzo Madama, and the parliamentary acts bear witness to it unequivocally. This may not please everyone, but it will be a text which is a significant child of this Parliament, for good and for bad, and of our work as Commission and Parliament. And I say this because like so many people in this House I want to take the credit, as a senator, for a courageous choice that no one has been able to achieve for thirty years. And because I reject the idea of a reform imposed by others and putting at risk the spaces of democratic representation. I would like to reiterate that, once again reminding my party's most critical colleagues that they can legitimately declare themselves unsatisfied, but that they cannot denounce this as a surrender to anti-democratic plebiscitarianism by forgetting how this proposal, including the election of second degree, was already photographed with sharp outlines in the fourth thesis of the Olive tree of 1996. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting for this reform, we have the opportunity to streamline and make Parliament's institutions more efficient, to demonstrate the ability to self-form politics, to tell the citizens that we want to open a season with them that will reinvent the means of participation to make them useful and commensurate with the challenges of the new millennium. As I said at the beginning, I realize (and first I feel the emotion) that on such an extraordinary occasion it is understandable to feel the full weight of the unrepeatable legacy of those who drafted the Constitutional Charter almost 70 years ago. But I believe that a generation must, if it really wants to correspond to the responsibilities that its time entrusts to it, have the courage of ambition, the one that does not make to measure every day the distance with the greatness of the fathers, but pushes to commit to leave a pledge for the future of their children! Believe me, I'm sure we'll be able to. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform we are discussing is born with an original sin: it is voted by an elected Parliament with an unconstitutional law. The Constitutional Court has ruled, quite rightly, that Porcellum does not guarantee the democratic expression of the people; that blocked lists and the abnormal majority prize deform the popular will. For this reason, the only thing we should discuss in this parliamentary term is to reform the electoral law as soon as possible with clear rules and shared by everyone, possibly even through an advisory referendum. But we're not doing anything else. We are about to vote for a constitutional reform that does not help the country, but that reduces the democratic expression even more! From the pages you have written, a design of authoritarian turning emerges clearly: the systems of control of democracy that had created our constituent Fathers are cleared, in two lines and without compliments. The balance between the two chambers is distorted and this Senate is transformed into a useless carriage without the ability to influence the legislative process. The Constitution is rewritten on the model of your beloved bipolarism, as if bipolarism were a guarantee of efficiency. But this is false: this system in twenty years has never worked and has led Italy to disaster. To describe the failure of this model that you are pursuing, just quote the example of the bridge over the Strait of Messina: thanks to the bipolar system everything that is designed on one side is then dismantled by the opposing side in the next legislature, with the conclusion that you never reach any goal. In this sense, I would like to address our President-in-Office of the Council, who has quoted Telemaco in Europe: this is how we do things rather like Penelope, since one thing is done in a parliamentary term and in the next one it is done away with what has been done before. This method of politics treated as if it were stadium fans has also led to an impoverishment of Italian culture, as Don Gallo states with very clear words: the "society of performances" is destroying the very idea of democracy, born in Italy with the Republican Constitution and with the partisan victims who sacrificed themselves for freedom. The Constitution sprang from the conscience of the Italians and the resistance of people who played their lives. The Constitution is our secular Bible of democracy. Democracy, as Giorgio Gaber said, is participation. Not to mention that the current reform puts forward exactly the Berlusconi model, which was voted by this Parliament in 2005 and which was clearly rejected by the referendum in 2006. After such a popular expression you still have the courage to repropose the same heated soup: to the face of participation. Finally, I would like to stress that, through this system of decree-laws and trust, the democratic system already undergoes a very serious deformation: let alone what would happen if we also added to this the complete cut of the passage to the Senate. This Parliament votes for conversions of decree-laws at an exhausting pace: what is the point of introducing a reform which accelerates the industrial production of laws even more? I think that the question of reforms is a whole set-up of this Government, set up to act as a mass distraction, while the economic data tell us that the country goes deep and that in Italy the number of people under the poverty line has reached 10 million, of which six million are in absolute poverty. And you don't have to go very far because every day, outside, in front of the buvette, there are young people waiting to be able to work for two or three months. At the moment, we are all responsible for not preventing this dramatic situation and we are still discussing the number of Members and the legislative mechanisms in a vacuum. Labour reform and the fight against corruption should be at the top of this House's agenda, not the linear cut in democracy. The 5 Star Movement entered Parliament to cut the costs of politics, not to cut democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. I don't see him. It's meant to have given it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u51	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u52	Madam President, dear citizens, kind senators, these days, dedicated to the debate on constitutional reform, we are listening to valuable proposals, high indications of government, timely criticism and observations of very important constitutional importance. All according to the deep commitment of the reform: but reform what? The discussion on the drafting of the Constitutional Charter began in July 20, 1946: it was a Saturday. An important year in 1946, which marked the beginning of the end of absolutistic processes; a year in which we wanted to tread the path of democracy, respect and the protection of the dignity of all citizens: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. This fundamental principle is the principle of a Charter which, without the life and essentiality of practice, remains simply paper. The constituent Fathers, precisely as fathers, wanted to protect, prepare, educate, cure and safeguard future generations through the text of the fundamental Charter; to protect in a way guaranteeing the life of the Italian State, the life of the Italians. In these days of July we find ourselves renewing a path called reform, not chosen and not shared by the citizens who make up the Italian State. A change such as the one we are about to face calls for the exercise of robust sovereignty, an expression of strong consensus. It must therefore be legitimated by the people, who are the real beneficiaries of the reform that is being discussed in this House. We do not understand the reason why, if it is true that the people are the true holder of democratic power, a reform of our Charter, they must come from a government-based bill. It seems that we want Parliament to be deprived of its natural function. It is well known that the first 12 articles of the Constitution contain the fundamental principles, the supreme principles of the order that inspire the whole constitutional dictation and that by their nature are not modifiable. This reform tends to weaken these principles by undermining the foundations and the maintenance of the whole democratic order. In this sense, it is eloquent that the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs has approved, with the Government's favourable opinion, an amendment that increases the number of signatures required for the presentation of a draft popular law from 50,000 to 250,000. This makes the idea of where we want to go even clearer: to get the citizen away from politics. The truth, contained in this text, is that the bill of constitutional reform, far from wanting to improve the democratic life and the functioning of the institutions in our country optimizing its costs, wants to be used as rams to break through the chest that contains our fundamental Charter, wisely packaged. We want to break down the door placed in the custody of our democracy. There is no need to spend so many words to discuss and understand that we have been talking for days about a reform or rather about a fundamental constitutional counter-reform and decisive for the life of our country. This bill appears splashed by paints of a few colors that show the words "concentrating power" in a game of false appearance, exactly the reverse of what the constituent Fathers in '46 had written and thought. Let's start from the heart of this plan, the electoral law: Italicum with its abnormal majority prize that lays the pillars for the protection of power, which together with the disparity between minority parties and majority would put the beginning of the centralization of the single power. I cannot believe that there are constituent Fathers who, although investigated, with charges for crimes such as criminal association, fraudulent bankruptcy, can put their hands on the reform of the Constitution. As fathers or mothers in such an important reform, they may feel that they do not create real listening, participation and confrontation with a country at the expense of the forces, a country in which work, dignity, health and environmental protection are lacking. The new reformists should look at the rules governing the management of the state and regional self-government in a constructive way, without demeaning them and forgetting them, but simply respecting them. It is proposed to appoint senators to choose between regional councillors and mayors. I do not understand its technical value, I do not understand its constitutional meaning, I do not see its respect for citizens who will not be able to participate in the choices in practice, they will not be able to express their opinion. Everything can be renewed, reformed, but one cannot be deaf and blind in the face of such an unjust reform towards the Italians. Representative democracy can only be achieved with citizens. Without the citizens, all they do is destroy it. Yet in 2010 in a meeting in Reggio Emilia Minister Delrio said in the presence of constitutionalist Onida: We are in love with the Constitution, we are partisans of the Constitution and continued: We like the Constitution as it is. We like it the way it is. A man of his word. A republican constitution, net of content, involves an exercise of sovereignty that requires an authoritative Parliament, fully legitimized by the popular vote, capable of democratically representing the national population. I am sure that new fathers and mothers will want to be able to take inspiration from the ideas, proposals and criticalities that have arisen during these days of discussion and that have been highlighted. Let's hear it! Listen to the uneasiness and danger that are created in not deepening the point about participation. Fathers and mothers of the reform, please do not choose the path that is antithetical to the life of our Italian Republic: the responsibility is extremely deep. We are here and we can draw up a reform that is fair. We are here and can think and design a reform rich in human, social and cultural values. We can think of protecting and guarding the environment in which we live. Do not be alienated from the reality outside these rooms: a reality that exists, is alive and is increasingly pressing, because there is life outside. That life that good fathers and mothers of the Constitution must protect strenuously, because that is their task. So, good work to all of us, because our responsibility is enormous. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u53	Senator Baptist had moved away from the Chamber, but now he can be reinstated on the list of members to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u55	Madam President, I should like to point out that unfortunately I do not have the right to know the variations in the list of Members who speak. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteurs, to the officials and to all those who have worked on this measure. The government's initial text was, I dare say, embarrassing. Despite the efforts made, I would like to say at once that I am not satisfied with the text that has been issued by the Commission. Let me once again criticise the free accusations made to the employees of this institution during the last period. However, I wonder whether the members of this Government have had the opportunity to examine the brief Notes drawn up by the Senate Studies Service and the many dossiers that I have been able to examine. I would like to recall, for example, the Short Notes No. 10 of June 2013, titled "Bicamalism and shuttles": the data "Bicamalism." Although it has already been mentioned by Senator Corsini, I would like to quote again the following: In the course of the 16th legislature 391 laws were passed. Of these, 301 were without shuttles (therefore with only two total readings, one for each Chamber). 90 laws have been passed with shuttles. Precisely by referring to the process of law and decree-laws I find it very difficult to see that until now there has been no possibility of governing: it seems to me that no one has made any problem in putting trust when it came back comfortable. I would also like to quote the short notes No 17 of December 2013, titled: The two-cameral laws in countries with differentiated bicameralism are the short notes n. 18 of December 2013, titled "Conciliation procedures in bicameral legislative systems" and the short notes n. 23, entitled "Senati in un flash ". With reference to this card, I would like to make a reflection: it is okay to consider what happens in other countries, but I think it is necessary to consider at the same time the entire country system. Let us think about the behaviour of German politicians, since there is so much talk of Bundesrat, just to give an example, when they are even touched by investigations. Certainly, until the third degree of judgment we are all innocent, but a serious reflection on the differences between us and the other countries should be made and even more serious if we think of the hundreds of regional advisers under investigation: an active and passive electorate not really image of correctness and respect for legality. In my humble opinion, a serious mistake was made by presenting a constitutional revision text precisely by the Government: there were other parliamentary initiative texts, presented before the text under consideration, which was presented on 8 April. I refer to the bill n. 1355, first signed by Senator Campanella, presented on 5 March; to the bill n. 1392, first signed by Senator Buemi, presented on 17 March, and to the bill n. 1420, presented by Senator Chiti on 2 April. Almost a week later the Renzi-Boschi bill arrives. I believe that having put various stakes, among which I believe the main one of indirect election, is not the right approach to achieving as broad a sharing as possible, as it should be for a constitutional bill. Strong of the 40% result at the last European electoral competitions, some may have been confused, but success, including political success, as it arrives, so it can disappear. And I'm sorry there's a forced force on the part of the government and the Democratic Party on some points. Perhaps naively I thought - and unfortunately I still think so - that achieving a result that provided for two thirds of consent at second reading could be something to be proud of, being able to say: Here we are, we have succeeded in what other governments have not succeeded in despite having stronger majorities than the present one. It may just be my feeling, I might be wrong, but this text will have to be confirmed by a referendum. Perhaps this will not be a problem, because with the strong wind of anti-politics pulling, if we asked the citizens to abolish both Chambers, who knows, the majority could also be expressed favorably. With regard to anti-politics, I would like to reflect on the costs and possible savings already highlighted by some of my colleagues. Someone said that this reform package would save EUR 1 billion. This bill leads to a savings of €75-80 million. Let's compare it with the savings that would bring, for example, Senator Chiti's bill: 285 million euros. Since a group leader turned up a moment ago and we will soon have a budget session, I am sorry to see no one from the former People of Liberty, a party that in an election campaign had announced that they would fight to reduce the costs and the number of parliamentarians: we will see what your behavior will be at the next budgetary session on the economic treatment of senators and Members, who have considerable differences. It would seem appropriate to give even small signals, by giving up the flat-rate reimbursement, by making the daily allowance equivalent to that which Members have or the exercise of their term of office, on which I recall a commitment, made at the last budgetary session by the quaestors senators, to ensure that at least our collaborators could be hired by the House of Membership, while at the moment it is nothing in fact. Or, since everyone is talking about other people's pensions, we could give a signal by trying to think about ours, which has separate management. When we got here, in the first few days in the Senate, they had us fill out a lot of forms. Just one form would be enough, on which to indicate your own pension institution: we would put the money there and respond to a contributory system like the one we set up with tears and blood for everyone. I wouldn't see anything wrong with that. However, we are meeting today to discuss a fundamental constitutional reform that risks significantly weakening democratic institutions. My impression is that this reform has become the subject of everyday political confrontation, to the point that it was thought that it could be modified as if it were a regulatory act like so many. A way and an approach that has degraded its deepest qualities with the risk of undermining the value of the fundamental Charter. The spirit of the constituent Fathers was represented by openness to dialogue, by the high level of debate and the choices made, which today seems to be in no way possible to record. In fact, in the comparison between the Republican Constitution and the current amendment, which seems rather marked by approximation and contradiction, the 1948 Charter demonstrates all its undoubted value, its validity and its vitality. The haste, which seems to be dictated by difficult economic relations with Europe, is not always a good adviser. We cannot speed up such an important reform just to try to convince Europe of our diligence, a Europe which is not at all interested in institutional reforms: Europe is asking us for tidy accounts, it is asking us to solve the financial problems, it is asking us to reduce the public debt. Firstly, we must respect the Constitution, a respect which is also shown by devoting all the time necessary to reform itself to achieving the best and most shared result possible. Reforms such as that of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution had to be dealt with separately: both need a broad, reasoned and in-depth discussion, covering the same profound changes in the institutional aspect. The reform of Title V, as laid down by the 1st Commission, in my view is nothing more than a miserable split between the North and the South. The differentiated autonomy with which the State can delegate additional functions to the Regions on certain subjects, provided that they have a balanced budget, increases the gap between the various territorial realities and increasingly removes the internal cohesion so requested by Europe, that very Europe which now seems to be our only problem. A pretty obvious contradiction, I'd say. My colleagues in the League are fighting a lot for autonomy and federalism; there are many colleagues who defend the specialty at regional level and I myself come from a region with a special statute. I wonder, however, why - and I am thinking about this - specialty should be maintained for regions which do budget chasms and which seem to me to be special in the negative sense. This too should be discussed with colleagues who come from those regions. With the reform proposed by the Government, the Senate is drastically impoverished of its functions and competences and its political and institutional weight is reset: it loses ownership of the trust relationship and, therefore, the inspection union on the Government, but votes the constitutional laws. The legislative competence in constitutional matters, with such a reformed Senate, therefore violates one of the basic principles of the rule of law, according to which the legislative function is exercised by direct representatives of the people and not by persons elected to carry out other positions that, in this case, would be a sort of part-time senators, with an overlap of unacceptable positions to carry out an institutional function of such importance. I am perhaps one of the few who considers the 24-hour day, and maybe all these mayors and regional advisers, future senators, will have the gift of ubiquity: they will be able to be here in Rome and to follow, at the same time, the problems of their cities and their regions. I would also like to make one point. We're talking about elected senate on a regional basis. But, ladies and gentlemen, have you ever questioned the senators elected in a region other than that of residence? It would be enough to give a small signal: if, to give such an answer, however, we have to elect regional advisers and mayors... Article 1 of the Constitution, in the second paragraph, states: Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. The natural corollary of this constitutional principle is that public authorities are always essentially limited. Why, then, should an unelected Senate - and therefore without a popular mandate - have powers to revise the Constitution? Why should mayors, who have a purely administrative function, have a legislative function in constitutional matters? Furthermore, I do not believe that it is absolutely democratic to combine in the same person overlaps of offices and functions, with the risk that it will not explode in the best way either. Not only that, these same administrators discuss resources with the Government, which has the availability of them. A rather anomalous and conflicting situation. In fact, then, the great defeat seems to be popular sovereignty: at a delicate moment such as the present one, where the crisis of public confidence towards the institutions is evident, it is necessary that the people should be given the opportunity to elect their own representatives. The Senate must be democratically legitimized; it must continue to be a representative Assembly. This does not seem to be the way for an efficient reform of such an important body. That is not why we are defending the perfect bicameralism (I think that no one in this House is to defend the perfect bicameralism), but rather to criticize a decidedly liquidatory attitude. I repeat that overcoming the current legislative procedure should be dealt with very carefully and in the direction of strengthening the Senate's role of guarantee. To drastically reduce the functions of the Senate, in addition to eliminating its eligibility, means that this House will no longer be able to play its role of counter-power against the other branch of Parliament. The consequence would be yet another conflict with another fundamental principle of pluralist democracies, namely the need for counter-powers. The concentration of power over a single organ and, presumably, even a single coalition is not conceivable in a liberal democracy. It is now clear that there is a crisis affecting parliamentary representativeness in favour of a privileged role of representation of the Executives, which are currently playing a major authoritative role, expressing a function of representation and counterweight that does not derive directly from the electoral consensus. This fundamental function, expression of the particular needs of civil society and of control, belongs, of course, to constitutional bodies produced by the will of the people. The Senate should, in fact, be a guarantee body, elective, with tasks different from those of the Chamber of Deputies, by subject matter and type of acts, and would therefore work in single-cameral mode. In this way the working time would be shorter and at the same time it would be possible to deepen, in the relevant branch, areas of intervention - such as the functions of inquiry, appointment, consultative functions, direction and control - that today do not seem to find the right space in the parliamentary calendars, where the legislative action of the government is the master. And just when we talk about the timetable of our work and considering how we conduct our activities we cannot fail to talk about the changes to the parliamentary regulations that should be made. I have proposed modifications, but I do not know if the other colleagues consider this a point that should also be examined by the other House, because it does not seem to me that in the other House they respect the times and the perfect bicameralism, at the moment, since we arrive at the draft law of conversion of the decrees two weeks before the expiry. Therefore, among the amendments I had proposed were several points: to strengthen the work of the Commissions, having to work more in the Senate in writing or even in deliberating (which is almost a taboo) for the draft legislation of parliamentary initiative, so as to allow the House more time for the measures and discussions of primary political importance; to provide for the examination in the Commission to be preceded by a general discussion in the Assembly; to reduce the speaking time in discussion and explanation of vote; to ensure that the days devoted to the work of the Permanent and Special Commissions, as well as to the activities of the bicameral Commissions, should not coincide with the days reserved for the work of the Assembly; the possibility for the Commissions to proceed to the hearing of the appointed to governmental appointments on which the Commissions themselves are called to give an opinion. Otherwise it happened (or at least happened in mine) that some Commissions came to express an opinion on people who no one has ever audited or seen, but of whom they simply looked at the curriculum (but because the Government says so, it must be said that we all agree). Other changes that I had proposed: the Commissions are allowed to vote resolutions, like the House, not only on assigned matters but also on matters of their own competence; to expand the number of subjects that the Commissions can adopt in the formal session; to provide procedural improvements for the out-of-date amendments of the rapporteurs and the Government (a habit that we have all seen). Returning to the new Senate, it, I said, should be a guarantee body, elective, with tasks different from those of the Chamber of Deputies for matters and types of acts. And then as a Chamber of Control and deepening, it would be right to release the Senate from the trust relationship with the Government, obviously starting from the necessary reduction of parliamentarians. And I agree with all my previous colleagues and ask them: is the number of Members of the House right and correct to leave it intact at 630? Therefore, in my opinion, the reform of the Senate should maintain bicameralism for fundamental and obviously constitutional matters; maintain direct universal suffrage for both Chambers and proceed to the half-heartedness of parliamentarians; therefore, provide for the clear differentiation of the functions of the two Assemblies. From these points a constructive debate could begin that leads to a shared reform of the Senate, definitively abandoning the logic that has accompanied up to now the necessity of constitutional reforms represented by the alibi that the political class seems to have created to justify its inability and failure, to the point to attribute the relative responsibility to the Constitution. I'll finish. In light of all this, I would like a very frank speech with the Premier. From the serene, Enrico, we all know how it ended. I do not want to go into the matter either, but it is right to point out that one thing has been said and that another has been done. Although it is written in Rule 40 (ex Rule 35) that this document will come into force from the next parliamentary term, you do not want me to believe that... You have to finish, Senator Baptist. BATTIST (Misto-ILC). ...if this reform passes, do we keep them in the drawer until 2018? So, ladies and gentlemen, everybody stay calm and vote for this reform. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and the Bottic and Crime Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u58	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am reading some of the agencies that I am very concerned about, and I think they also concern our colleagues here, and I do not know what they are missing. News is coming from the war front that is developing very strongly, and unfortunately also in a bloody way, in the Middle East. As you know, we are talking about the Constitution and not something secondary, even with respect to the relationship between our country and these situations. In this debate, there was no mention of the relationship between the Constitution of our country and the declaration of war, rather than the president. Follow the order of business, please, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Of course, ma'am. Depending on these elements that are emerging, I believe it is necessary to propose a suspensive issue of the measure, Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as the issue of the relationship between the Constitution and the declaration of war must be addressed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The suspensive issue obviously cannot be proposed at this stage. It is, if necessary, for the Leaders to determine the opportunity for the Government to report. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I repeat Rule 93, and I would remind you that a suspensive question can be accepted in the course of the debate if the presentation is justified by new elements which emerged after the start of the debate. If you believe that these elements that I am putting to you are insignificant in relation to a debate on the Constitution, you take responsibility for them. I certainly believe that this issue should be put to the House, not to the individual assessment of the President of the House. In this case, it is up to the House to give its views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u59	The President may refer the matter to the House if he considers it to be well founded. The subject you are presenting is not the subject of the text that we are debating and may possibly be put... [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] When we get to that part of the text, we will be able to address this issue. I do not consider this question to be admissible at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u61	Madam President, authoritarian reform? No way. That is the red thread of my intervention. I chose this track because the reform of the Constitution under discussion in the Senate is in these hours accused of reflecting an authoritarian vision. Combined with the proposal for a new electoral law may in fact raise some fears, which will have to be eliminated when that reform is dealt with. But the text we are discussing now, especially after work in the Commission and with the support of the Government, is far from the reflection of an authoritarian vision, and it adds many elements of democracy and balance between powers. I have put together ten particularly important considerations - but there are also others - that give the sense of a reform not at all caesarist and despotic. First. It is objected that with the indirect election of the senators (this was the most recurrent objection) the will of the people will be denied, but it is not true. The regional councillors are almost all elected with preferences in very tough competitions, the mayors are voted by majority by their citizens. It is likely that the regional councillors will appoint their experienced and widely voted colleagues. By becoming senators, they will also represent their institutions, from which they are indicated, addressed and controlled. In short, these second-degree elected representatives have even double representation: of their citizens and of their local self-governments. Second. The fear that the government and its boss will take everything, honestly, is unfounded. The form of government is not changed, the Prime Minister is not given superpowers, presidentialism is not introduced. And the President of the Republic, who was at risk, comes out of it with strengthened guarantee powers. Third. A strong concession to the Government, in truth, there is: the possibility of having its bill voted within sixty days, provided that it is not constitutional, electoral, budget, legislative delegation or a decree-law. That may be the case, but provided that, as indicated in the correct text by the work of the Commissions, it comes to this House and is an essential measure for the implementation of the programme of government, voted by Parliament. Moreover, this faculty attributed to the Government will determine (this is certainly the non-Cesarist effect) a lesser use of decree-laws which, we all know (also said during our debate), sometimes or often have been used even in the absence of real urgency. The Government will no longer be able to repeat unconverted decrees-laws or restore the effectiveness of laws that the Constitutional Court has declared illegitimate; provisions outside the object or purpose of the decree-law will not be approved; the President of the Republic will have more time to examine them. In short, we try to reduce a little 'the overpower practiced by the last governments that have imposed (they are right those who have emphasized it) a myriad of omnibus decrees-laws, reducing to the light the space to approve the bill of parliamentary initiative. Fourth. The President of the Republic will be elected by an absolute majority only after the eighth ballot; today he can be elected after the third ballot. In other words, the path is extended, precisely in order to identify a guarantee figure that may not be disliked by minorities. On the other hand, neither the present system of election of the Senate nor the new, it is assumed that the two branches of Parliament have the same majority. And the percentage deriving from the majority prize, currently provided by Italicum, certainly does not guarantee to those who win, especially with the secret vote, the mortgage on the election of the President of the Republic. Fifth. The Senate is assigned important prerogatives, including the evaluation of the activities of public administrations, the verification of the implementation of the laws of the State, the control (the same control formally recognized with the new text also to the Chamber) and the evaluation of public policies. In short, the new Constitution accentuates the functions of verifying the work of the Commission. Sixth. The preventive judgment of constitutional legitimacy for electoral laws is introduced. In the case of illegality the law cannot be promulgated. Constitutional principles such as the centrality of Parliament, the protection of minorities, the will of the voters cannot be violated, or the stop of the Consultative Committee. Even here I don't think he did a favor to the Cesarists. Seventh. In the case of a referendum proposal, the quorum is lowered: no longer the majority of those entitled, but the majority of voters who took part in the last election of the House. The number of signatures to be collected, it is true, is raised, but the Constitutional Court immediately expresses itself on eligibility, so that the collection of signatures stops, or continues downhill. The legislative initiative carried out directly by the people is also valued: we need more signatures, it is true, but then there is a certain commitment to the proposal being scheduled and examined. Unlike today, where popular initiative designs remain in drawers. I do not think that direct democracy is being massacred by a despotic will. Eighth. The legislative function is exercised collectively by the Chamber and Senate in reference to the legal order, the electoral legislation, the governing bodies, the associative forms and the fundamental functions of Municipalities and Metropolitan Cities. It is therefore acknowledged that the new Senate shares the definition of non-state structures. In addition, standard costs are introduced into the Constitution, which commit Regions and self-governments to a virtuous emulation of the best. These are decisions in application of the principle of subsidiarity: all the opposite of centralization and authoritarianism. 9th. The fact that the new senators are elected by the Regional Councils with a proportional method in relation to the population and guaranteeing minorities guarantees pluralism does not take for granted that the majority of the Senate is homogeneous with that of the Chamber and does not allow those feared calculations or those alchemies of the great manoeuvror in a fearful way. Tenth. Finally (I stopped here and perhaps I also bored you a little, but it seemed useful to carry out a didactic and punctual intervention), from the almost complete rewriting of Article 117 comes a new balance between the competences attributed to the State and the Regions. As the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, said, there is no centralist regurgitation, as some feared. The State is given legislation with general and common provisions on many matters of regional competence, but this does not mean that the Government puts a hat on the Regions: simply, it avoids that the excessive variety of guidelines leads to discredit to the same regional administrations and different treatments for citizens. In conclusion, as allergic to every plebiscytic temptation, while trying to identify it, I honestly did not find it and I don't see it. Of course, something can be improved, but the reform system is clearly democratic. On the draft electoral law, on which the debate has yet to open up to the Senate, we will watch. But now, here, it must only be recognized, and supported, the clear will to redesign in a balanced way the powers of our beloved Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when examining the draft Constitutional Act No. 1429, concerning provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament, the reduction of the running costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of the second part of the Constitution, I agree with many who have spoken in this House these days in defense of the Constitutional Charter, but makes me smile that the "colleghi" defend the Charter in words and then in the vote do as Bruto (you quoque, Brute, fili mi? ). Let's hope not! Senator Calderoli makes me especially feel like saying what he said as a majority rapporteur (majority!), i.e. rather than nothing, rather better than nothing. This is frightening, partly because it is always about our Constitutional Charter. However, I would like to thank all my colleagues, not just those of my Group, but also those of the other groups, especially those of the majority groups. In many speeches, from the authentic to the media, I appreciated the pride of those who know they are doing something important, of those who are defending the Constitution. The Constitutional Charter must be defended and should be defended above all by those who dedicate themselves to being a high representative of the citizens in the institutions. It is precisely for all these reasons expressed in the many important speeches we have heard in this House these days, precisely because the reasons that have prompted the Government (just for this I get the chills) to present these changes are all - I stress all - attributable, as we have already said, to the malfunctioning of the Government itself, these changes must not be approved. Let's retrace the story for a moment. In a democracy as ours should be, there are two entities, two poles: representatives and representatives. A close relationship must be established between these. In fact, it is LaPalissian that a political organ will be all the more representative as the more faithfully it will replicate the distribution of certain characteristics typical of society and that the representatives, chosen by the representatives with the elections (of course, this is one of the key points), have towards the latter the responsibilities to which they cannot lack. Democratic representation is, therefore, a stable relationship between citizens and rulers, understood both as pluralistic subjects, by which the latter are invested with the authority to govern in the name and in the interest of the former, and are subject to political responsibility for their behaviour in front of the citizens themselves. In fact, modern democracies are based on the dual election-Parliament. If we trace history, we see how parliamentary assemblies originated in the Middle Ages and were born as complex institutions with a strong representative character. Then, with pluralism, we meant the hierarchical characterization of society, while today we mean the plurality of opinions and interests that refer to individuals and groups placed on an equal footing. In addition, the premodern Parliament is a secondary institution compared to the royal power, a sort of containment, unlike the modern Parliament, which is instead the most direct expression of popular sovereignty. Popular sovereignty that our Constitution in the second paragraph of Article 1 states that sovereignty belongs to the people, and that it then unravels by providing for two chambers elected directly by the people. A different situation was present in the Subalpine Senate of Turin in 1848, which lasted, in some ways unchanged, until the Senate of the Kingdom in Rome, which ended in 1947, at the dawn of the Republic. The Kingdom Senate provided, instead, for a composition of members appointed for life by the King. These, in fact, could choose the senators, without limit of number, within the 21 categories listed by the Statute, including, for example, the archbishops and bishops of the State, the deputies after three legislatures or six years of exercise, the Ministers of the State, the ambassadors, the first Presidents and the Presidents of the Magistrate of Cassation and of the Chamber of Auditors and so on, that is, those who, by reason of the census, paid a certain percentage of annual taxes, as well as those who had illustrated the Homeland with services and eminent merits. In addition to membership of one of the 21 categories and the minimum age (40 years), other requirements were required, called implicit because they are not mentioned in the Statute: the citizenship of the Kingdom, the enjoyment of civil and political rights, the male (of course at the time) and the general requirement of dignity, i.e. the absence of criminal precedents and regular civil, moral and political conduct. It should also be remembered that, according to the statutory norm, the princes of the royal family, who entered it at the end of the twenty-first year of age, were part of the law of the Senate, although they acquired the right to vote only after turning 25. Unlike the House, which independently elected its President and its Vice Presidents, the Senate was appointed by the King by statute. In the constituent assembly, to provide representative bodies for the nascent Republic, there was a long debate aimed at addressing the never-ending question of the role to be assigned to the second Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, there was, in the first place, the question of the choice between a single-camera or two-camera Parliament. To the fear that with the first one he could slip into the dictatorship of assembly, he replied and considered it unnecessary to give life to a double of the House. The draft Constitution accepted the principle of perfect bicameralism, based on two elective chambers, equally representative and endowed with the same powers. This draft was harshly criticized and submitted in vain to various amendments, many of which were aimed at codifying the supremacy of the Chamber of Deputies on the other side of Parliament. Once the criterion of equality was accepted, the greatest difficulty faced by the constituents concerned the decision on the composition of what the draft Constitution called the Chamber of Senators. In this respect, the second Chamber was also intended to be strictly based on the elective system and to exclude all its subordination to the other branch of Parliament. Apart from the small number of members appointed or by law, the only differences with the other House concerned the number of members, the duration (five years for the House and six years for the Senate: the respective elections, therefore, would have been staggered), the requirements for the active and passive electorate and the electoral system. Compared to the House, whose seats were intended to be assigned on a circumscription basis, it was established that the Senate was elected on a regional basis. These were characteristics that wanted to distinguish the Senate from the Chamber in order to create an effective bicameralism, with two slightly differentiated Assemblies, but endowed with the same powers. However, some of the previous constitutive criteria of the Senate as a reflection body had remained: in the age required to elect and be elected and in the presence, even minimal, of vital senators. Since 1953 the equalization between the two Assemblies has been accentuated with the equalization of the duration, first realized in fact with the early dissolutions of the Senate in 1953 and 1958 (in conjunction with the deadlines of the Chamber) and then, also formally, with the constitutional modification of 1963. An equalization that is scrupulously respected also in the alternation that marks the presentation of the Governments to Parliament, for the purposes of the request of confidence, that is the documents that claim the annual maneuver of public finance. A parity that, in reality, did not identify the two Assemblies throughout. While the one may sometimes appear as a duplication of the other, as well as the debates that take place there, the circumstance that it is often the case of draft laws that meet favors, resistances and, therefore, different fates in the two Assemblies, seems to confirm that the existence of a second Parisian Chamber does not necessarily involve unnecessary time for the approval of the measures, but rather (we have seen it and continue to see it always) the possibility of a thorough review of the same. In this way, the Senate brings together the traditional function of a body of reflection, which had since the past, with the full popular legitimacy that puts it fully in the great vein of modern representative democracy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a profound remodelling of representative democracy, which strikes at the precise and scrupulous balance of the powers and functions that our wise constituent Fathers have developed and, then, enshrined in our fundamental Charter. Today, with the supposed speed of a reform per month, we disrupt the work of great statesmen such as Terracini, President of a Sub-Committee, and other sayings and roads these days. I'm telling you clearly, I don't feel good about it, but neither are you. Just the haste with which you want to lead us this constitutional upheaval is a dangerous drift of democracy and I cannot agree with that speed. Such a strong and drastic change in our Constitution must necessarily be preceded by the formation of a constituent Assembly; it cannot be reduced to a few weeks in the Commission and a quick passage in the Chamber. With a sponge stroke cancel the representativeness; with a stroke of hand you repulse us into the Senate of the Kingdom: we cannot stand! I leave you with an appeal, colleagues: an appeal to reread the accounts of the constituent assembly (I was not the only one to ask for it), but also to review the history of our country. To realize that it was also the poor democratic garrisons that led us to Fascism and the Great Wars. We do not close to constitutional reforms, we are not opposed to it, but let us take time: let us focus, for example, on Title V and the damage it has caused, or on the reduction of expenditure; not on the cancellation of democracy, that is not the case! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u64	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it is true that we are at a turning point. Constitutional reform is finally real. Constitutional reform is possible. 30 years of repeated attempts, all failed: from the Bozzi Commission to the Alema Commission; then the reform gone badly in 2001 of the center-right; then the always questionable one of 2006 of the center-left. The country can no longer postpone. Constitutional reform is a resource, an extraordinary democratic opportunity. Let us not, colleagues, become a problem. A problem that divides and brutally separates politics within it and creates yet another, increasingly ruinous disappointment between citizens and institutions. Of course, it is a resource if it changes our institutional structure in a virtuous way and if it builds a parliamentary structure able to give dynamism and vital energy to an Italy that needs to get back in motion and to conquer the confidence of the Italians through an unprecedented and radical process of reform, able to combine, perhaps for the first time in history, legality and development. In short, to have a credible country, within and within the European community and in the international context, capable of having strong institutions able to address historical issues, still unresolved in our country today, such as the fight against mafias and corruption, the innovation of our society in civil and social rights, the revival of the economy on new foundations of sustainability and growth. True, as we have heard in many passionate and learned speeches, our 1948 Constitution is still extraordinarily modern. He's got values, rules, and plans still to be realized. I am referring in particular to Part I. While it is undeniable that Part II has many limits, certainly justified, because it is anchored to its historical dynamics. Our constituents felt the need to give democracy, after the Second World War, therefore after fascism, a very precise characterization: "democracy of representation," "democracy of participation," "democracy of inclusion." The "bicameralism equal" responded to this need and the proportional electoral system was the most coherent instrument for electing MPs and senators. It was right. Everyone had to feel involved and all political and social actors had to be put in a position to make their own valuable contribution. Everyone was guaranteed a "piece" of power. A democratic culture had to be built. It was then said to include the masses, in many ways extraneous to an idea and practice of democracy. It was also necessary to spread well-being and to contain the conflict that a growing society brought with it, as it did in the 1960s and 1970s. In this context, another vital dimension of democratic decision has necessarily been neglected. Nothing to share with authoritarianism or the same decision-making. It was also considered that the timing of the decision was completely irrelevant. In the same way, the territories, both the municipalities and the regions, were not centralized. Today in Italy in crisis, it has become aware that the democratic decision is a resource and not a stumbling block of democracy and that the timing of the decision is as important as the decision-making method. Today, we mostly share a strong point of the constitutional debate these days. The proposal that the Renzi Government had the courage to move forward. A finally mature will present in our country, in the democratic and constitutional culture of our country: enough with the perfect bicameralism. We structurally differ the two functions of Chamber and Senate: a single Chamber that gives confidence to the Government, a single Chamber that intervenes on ordinary laws and another Chamber (the Senate, in fact) that has functions of guarantee and of connection with public and European policies and with the same dynamics of the territory. It is a democratic and modern system, present in other advanced countries, and perhaps it is more consistent with the need to create an Italy that makes the democratic decision and the territories its strength in the heart of legislative power. Otherwise, colleagues, leaving the question of democratic decision and territorial representation unanswered, which in the citizens is not in conflict with the demand for participation, would have led to another possible outlet: to strengthen the Executives until presidentialism and in fact to expel the legislative power beyond measure. Colleagues, either one or the other: either the ability of parliaments to keep pace with the changes in society is strengthened or more power must be given to the Executives, as has been the case in several advanced democracies to which we do not repress an excess of decision-making capacity, or indeed we often envy their capacity for government, stability and democracy. It remains an open question that divides us: the choice whether the Senate should be elected directly by the citizens or the result of second-degree representation. The Senate has taken the path as an expression of representation of the territories with an election of its members, precisely, of second degree. It's not a scandal. It is an always democratic model, in this phase more consistent with the two main democratic questions present in the country: more democratic decision with a strong role of the Chamber of Deputies; more weight to territorial democratic representation with a new role of the Senate. The legitimate concern expressed about a loss of democracy in the selection of representatives of the Senate - attention - must not be attributed to the election of second degree, but rather to the electoral law that we will have to choose to elect the parliamentarians who will make up the Chamber of Deputies. As the proportional electoral law of the first Republic responded better to the perfect bicameralism, to the need to create a shared and participatory democracy, it is more coherent today to equip us with an electoral law that exceeds the blocked lists of so-called MPs appointed for the formation of the new Chamber of Deputies. This is the real contradiction with the overall system that the Government is proposing to us. We need an electoral law that provides for a more direct relationship between elected and citizens. Models may be different: some prefer single-member colleges, others prefer them. Personally, I prefer double gender preference. In this way, the new model of diversified bicameralism can be achieved by overcoming any democratic concern to give the country a strong legislative power capable of keeping pace with the innovations and structural overcoming of the crisis still present in our economy and in our society. Colleagues, there is still an issue which has emerged in the debate here too and which does not convince me: the new structure of Title V. Several interventions have argued that the presence of regions with special status must be overcome constitutionally: this is an approach that I do not agree with. Of course, I do not defend the disastrous use of the specialty that has been done in many regions, beginning with my region, Sicily. That speciality has been bent by a deadly approach that our own stupendous constituent phase of the Second World War could not solve; a pre-existing approach to the democratic spirit of our constituents, to the same fascism and that characterized the beginning of the decades of the unity of Italy. I simplify this in this way, the structure that Italy gave itself was not of real and substantial unity, but a sort of material Constitution was realized that provided for a dual Italy: the North produces for the whole Country, the South consumes the products of the North: the task of consuming was implemented in the South by the use of public spending and by the progressive and continuous expansion of the work entirely concentrated in public institutions (in the Municipalities, in the Provinces, in the Regions, in the institutions).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u66	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u67	LUMIA (PD). The public place was in fact the main aspiration of the southern citizens, fueled by a policy that has carried out up to the present day a damned function of bureaucratic mediation and clientele and often business-mafia. With the collapse of public spending finally goes into crisis this model and today more than ever the specialty can resume its original role, suffocated and prevented, in order to become a powerful engine of legality and development, especially in those Regions that have been bent and ruined by the logic that had to be limited to passively consuming public spending and not to valorizing their productive vocations. I start with the conclusion: of course, the modern speciality will lose its historical reasons for revenge against the national decision-making center, but it will be able to acquire a more modern and decisive ability to become design specialties. That is why I have supported the reasons for those who believe that specialties should be maintained, even if they are encouraged to take the path of changing their Statutes. Italy changes its institutional structure, but it does not cancel either Parliament or the Regions. Regions with special statutes also change, but do not cancel their prerogatives covenants in the relationship with the State and autonomous in the exclusive competence of some matters. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u68	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u69	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and colleagues of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their constructive work. It was a very interesting human experience. Much has already been said about these issues, so I will not go back to what many have said. I am trying to focus on four points which, in my view, have not been sufficiently highlighted during the debate. The first point concerns technical aspects, changes made which, in my opinion, have a significant scope greater than the lack of attention given to them. The text, in fact, in some passages works a maintenance to the functioning of the decision-making system, not only the simplification of the legislative activity and the relationship of trust, but also the forecast of the homogeneity of the decrees, the introduction of norms for the reduction of the recourse to the decree of urgency and important interventions in the matter of election of the President of the Republic; but also the introduction of the preventive recourse to the Constitutional Court in the matter of electoral, the constitutionalization of the statute of oppositions, provision to increase the effectiveness of the action of government without forcing it to resort too frequently to the vote of confidence. These are important changes that partly rationalise constitutional jurisprudence and partly overcome some of the obstacles that have emerged in parliamentary practice. Therefore they must certainly be welcomed; however, they are probably a sin of excessive contingency, because they are too tarati on the current situation and do not always have the due constitutional tone, not always in the text there is really constitutional matter, but rather of a regulatory nature. In some cases, the ridicule with provisions not only non-constitutional, but also legal ones, as in the case of Rule 64, which introduces the obligation for Members of Parliament to participate in the proceedings of the House and of the Commissions: a clearly useless, redundant and sanctionless provision. On the other hand, Article 64 also introduces the important principle of guaranteeing an opposition statute, but the forecast is very low and everything is delegated to the Rules of Procedure on a very important issue. In other respects the text is weighed down and made less readable; technically perhaps it could not be otherwise. I recall, for example, that Article 70 goes from the current 9 words to 332 and referrals to paragraphs and letters in which the Senate participates in legislative activity, or to matters delegated to the Regions or to the list of competences and so on are not of immediate reading and make the constitutional text resemble in some passage more to a bad law, such as those we are accustomed to approving, than to a constitutional text. But apart from these and other shortcomings, this is, in general, an undoubted step forward on several aspects, which have so far slowed down and weighed down legislative activity. It rationalizes the form of government, something that other Western democracies have done before us. We absolutely needed it, because the choice of constituents to maintain the form of government very broad and determinable in the concrete unfolding of the relationship between the political forces has shown that it has not actually been a particularly happy choice. Secondly, what is there and what is missing in this text? As I have already said, there is much in the text: there is the partial and necessary rationalization of the form of government, the new discipline of the legislative process, many improvements also in the matter of transfer of functions to the individual Regions (under article 116, paragraph third), the constitutionalization of the standard costs. What is missing, though? There is no modern vision of the decision-making process, which cannot be used up in the relationship between the Government and Parliament (as it seemed to have been heard, even in many speeches in this House), by shifting the centre of gravity sometimes to one side and sometimes to the other. The legislative process has been reformed and there has also been an intervention on the second traditional leg of democracy - the direct leg - for which there have been innovations - which may or may not be pleasing - for example in the matter of referendums, and a preferential lane has also been provided for proposals for popular initiative legislation. These are all things on which we can agree or not, but which certainly represent a modernisation of the traditional decision-making process. However, it has been forgotten that a modern decision-making process is not limited to the integration between representative democracy and direct democracy: both are clearly indispensable, but are no longer sufficient and are both linked to the will for occasional majorities or even particularly active minorities. In the current text there is no mention, for example, of participatory democracy, which is the theme of the future and which does not coincide at all with direct democracy, but which consists precisely of those instruments, which are elsewhere widespread, of mitigating the majority principle (because in reality that is what we are talking about). Forms such as deliberation, public debate, prior consultation or strategic planning are elements that cannot be lacking in a modern and pluralistic system, which must attenuate the majority principle and not accentuate its brutality, because of this we are suffering. This lack is, paradoxically, found at a time when the Government increasingly (and is a very positive fact) launches public consultations on different issues and thus shows that it has grasped the importance of the participatory method. Many regions have passed laws on this subject and there is in short, the possibility of correcting this element in the House. The third point I want to discuss is the matter of the Senate. Unfortunately, all political and media attention has been focused on the Senate and its reform. What has come out of the Commission's work is certainly much more sensible than the original text. Unfortunately, there is still a fundamental misunderstanding, which has not been resolved for political reasons. Although these reasons are understandable and well-known, they cannot be merely political criteria that inspire a constitutional revision because politics is ephemeral and the Constitution has at least the claim to be eternal. The misunderstanding is that of the Senate's functions. Everything has been subordinate to the question of the electivity or not of the senators, but this issue has shifted attention to the real question, which is that of the functions, and it has also channeled opposition to the text - I must say, unfortunately - to the least relevant point among all those - and there are many - for which this text can be criticized. The question is very simple: do you want a political Senate or a territorial Senate? It's two different things. If the Senate is territorial, not only does it not serve to make it elective, but this is even counterproductive, because in this way it represents a political criterion, rather than the territorial one, and therefore it would not serve immunity and so on. On the other hand, if the Senate is political, the democratic principle clearly requires it to be elective, with all that follows, including immunity for senators. Instead of starting from the functions to arrive at the composition, as it would have been logical and natural, we started from the composition to obtain its functions. In this debate we have heard a great deal of good criticism of the new composition of the Senate, based on the democratic principle. I quote for all - even if there have been others - the very beautiful and coherent intervention of Senator Chiti; intervention consistent with a certain approach and vision of constitutionalism, that for which legitimacy can derive only from election. But is it really like this today? It was so once, but we are in a different phase of constitutionalism, a phase in which, in reality, different legitimacys coexist, which are not all elective. Otherwise, in order to make a paradox but not too unlikely, we should think of electing judges, editors of newspapers or general executives of the Ministries, who in this House we all know very well count infinitely more than parliamentarians in the writing of laws. This is no longer the time of elective legitimacy alone, it is the time of multiple legitimacy, and the Constitutions serve precisely to limit power without making it less efficient, reducing to a system the different legitimacys, which are both elective, technical, judicial, international and supranational and territorial. The challenge of modern constitutionalism, which also makes it complex though fascinating, is precisely to try to bring these elements to a system, rather than regret the time when legitimacy came only from elections. Maybe it was better before. Maybe, I don't mean yes or no. I'm just saying, this isn't the stage anymore. The Senate that develops should represent territorial legitimacy. This was the idea and the basic text of the Government presented a Senate - let's face it - completely useless, but consistent with non-electivity, all mayors or almost and a little 'of appointed by the President of the Republic; a territorial Senate, but without any function for the territories, an absurd thing on the logical level, but consistent with the choice not to elect senators. So the Government's text also addressed this initial problem of starting from the choice of not electing and then resulting in a composition. The text that came out of the Commission, fortunately, corrects many twists but gives us a Senate that is still neither meat nor fish, because it is a bit territorial (now fortunately with a prevalence of the regional component) and a little political, with the attribution of politically very significant functions. For example, the Senate participates in legislation equally in several relevant areas, but incomprehensiblely not in one of the areas of greatest interest to the Regions, i.e. the coordination of public finance. It may carry out cognitive activities, make observations on acts or documents under examination of the Chamber and may intervene with a suspensive veto on any bill approved by the Chamber. These are political functions, which make it a political chamber, which consistently then provides immunity for its members, but it also clearly provides serious arguments to the supporters of electivity, because the more it is political and the more it has to be elected, the less it has to be elected. It's pretty simple. The territorial functions, which should instead be the backbone, are very attenuated and the connection with the territories is given only by the composition of the Senate, however determined politically and not territorially because then the new senators will sit for political belongings and not for regions of origin. Therefore, as far as possible, it may be necessary to try to accentuate the territorial nature of the Senate, to make it not a House with few powers and those few more political than territorial, but rather a body of incardination of the Regions in the national legislative decision-making process. So it would make sense not to elect senators, not to provide allowances, immunity and everything else. We are still in time to remove the wagon from the front of the oxen and give things the logical order they require. The final point is, in my opinion, the main aspect, namely the relationship between the State and the regions, which is the real problem of this reform. It is problematic because it is the daughter of a more conceptual error than legal and that risks to have very serious consequences for the country, imagining a management from the center of all the complexity and the diversity that enrich Italy; territorial, linguistic, cultural diversity, all things that are somehow ignored, in a logic of centralism I would say, truly, cultural, even unwanted, implicit, that is absorbed uncritically more than consciously thought, that distorts reality and therefore cannot work, just because it goes to regulate an imagined reality, that does not correspond to the reality of the facts. For a long time we had the Regions without a House representing them. Now we will have a Chamber of Regions without any more Regions: in indifference and sometimes even in the apparent satisfaction of many, this reform removes the ordinary Regions. It reduces them to mere administrative coordination bodies, which will be able to approve at most some administrative acts that will be called by modest law but which will not be in a material sense and will not have any regulatory content, because in that case they would be unconstitutional, since all the legislative power returns to the state. Nor will the regions be able to do much at administrative level, because the principle of parallelism is re-introduced to Article 118 which had been overcome by the 2001 reform. So we go back to the Constitution of '48 on this. And when the right becomes multilevel - beautiful expression, which is often used, but which is then emptied of content - it is thought, at the same time, to concentrate everything in one level. The subjects become in fact integrated and, therefore, all materially competing and at the same time eliminates the competing competence. For now, at least in part and fortunately, special autonomy will be saved, but these too will be in difficulty, because they will be surrounded by less and less autonomous territories and will be faced with a Constitutional Court which is given very powerful weapons for the centralization of powers, such as the return of national interest and, indeed, the double supremacy clause which, already provided for in Article 120, is now being reaffirmed and strengthened in Article 117, precisely to make sure that the concept is clear. I would actually define the safeguard clause for special autonomy as an airbag rule, which cushions the blow, which still remains. The direction in which you go, therefore, is the same for everyone. And what will happen again? The State, already suffering from the serious illness of regulatory overproduction, instead of delegifying, will be forced to make more and more laws because to the Regions nothing left and all the laws will be made by the State, in particular by a single Chamber, that will be even more clogged and will risk working even worse than what already happens today. If the text does not improve on this point, the State will, for example - it has already been discussed - make laws to regulate the Piedmontese sport of the punch ball - and I look at the rapporteur Finocchiaro - given that it will acquire exclusive competence in the field of sport tout court and not only national. The state will make urban plans, because the government of the territory will pass to the state. Yes, there are "general and common" provisions - a new category of uncertain qualification - but, if we are based on the old category of general rules, we know that they are in fact extremely detailed. The State will decide that in one university research will be possible in one subject and another in another, because it is competent in the strategic programming of scientific research. The examples would be many. It will then happen that the Regions will either bend or prosecute, which could still be worse. The conceptual error, therefore, is to think that a complex and differentiated country like ours can be effectively governed by the center, with the illusion that an equal law for all also has the same effect for everyone, but we already know that it is not so. This approach, among other things, besides being simplistic, risks causing a heterogenesis of the ends, because it produces an effect opposite to the desired one. The noble, coherent and understandable objective of rationalizing the confused design of the 2001 reform is fine; after that, the remedy risks being worse than evil, since here the remedy is a simplistic destruction of the Regions, in the illusion that, killing the contender, even the litigation is eliminated. But it increases litigation or it will crush every instance of self-government and, in both cases, the prospect is very worrying. Decentralisation, in fact, is not only a method of government - moreover absolutely necessary in a country as asymmetrical and different as Italy - but it is much more than that: it is in reality an extraordinary and indispensable system of counterweights and limits to power, precisely because it deconcentrates it. Many people in the debate have argued that in this reform there is an authoritarian risk: frankly I do not believe it, but if there is, it is not the lack of electiveity of the senators nor the preferential lanes for the government in legislative activity, but rather the annulment of regional autonomy tout court, of the very idea of autonomy in the broad sense. And that can be problematic. I close with a small theoretical reflection - allow me - but the theory has very significant practical impacts: what is the use of a Constitution and the modification of a Constitution? The great cultural revolution of the liberal state is the fact that only one interest no longer prevails. First the sovereign's interest in the absolute State prevailed, that of religious authority in the confessional State, that of national authority in the authoritarian State, that of class in the socialist State and so on. Today, however, in the liberal state and, even more so, in the constitutional state of law, the very essence of a Constitution is the recognition of the existence of a plurality of interests and legitimacy, rather than the positivity of their mutual conflict, which is therefore positive. In the constitutional rule of law, the law is formally and substantially binding. The national legislator competes with other legislators (international, European, regional, with the people through direct democracy). The law is no longer under monopoly regime and, in this way, it recovers the plurality that the French revolution had tried to eradicate. This reform aims to simplify the decision-making process and the institutional structure. It is good, because the present system is too cumbersome: we see it every day and there can be no doubt about it. The bet is to strike the balance between the need to simplify and the risk of questioning the acquisitions of the constitutional rule of law. There is obviously no single answer on where this balance is, but it is essential to ensure that we do not return to the time of the French Revolution, to the primacy of state law over every other source and to the Constitution as a mere political law. The alternative to this reform is immobilism, and we obviously cannot afford it. If that is why we must not trust this reform and, above all, commit ourselves to trying to improve: the work done in the Commission is an example of the fact that this is possible. Of course, let us not forget that the Constitution is a trial. This step is a stage in this process. There is still room for improvement, but we must not just look at contingency, we must think that a Constitution is not only for solving today's problems, but above all for anticipating and preventing tomorrow's problems. Let's get out of contingent logic and try to look a little further. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what I am about to do is without a shadow of a doubt my most important speech since I have the honour to sit in this House. It is the most important intervention for various reasons, but also because we are not discussing any state law today. We are discussing the future of Italy and future governments and how to amend the Constitution to make our country a better country for citizens. And unfortunately, what I read in the reform text that came out of the Commission, I do not see on several points a text that can improve our country. At the basis of my perplexities there is first of all the choice to transform the Senate of the Republic into a non-elective Senate, a Senate appointed, chosen at the table, and which in fact risks seriously compromising the balance and control of the different constitutional powers and bodies. In other words, there is a risk of allowing those who obtain a majority to easily appoint the President of the Council, the President of the Republic and all other constitutional bodies. From an early age I grew up with a strongly democratic ideal that our magnificent Constitution also recalls in its fundamental principles: it is Article 1 that reminds us that sovereignty belongs to the people and it is the people that must choose its leader, its representatives. It is the people who count in a nation. And we are at the service of the citizens. It is the people that the parties should listen to before forcing their Members and senators to vote in this House without any choice. Surveys that have recently been made public, among other things, have highlighted the views of citizens. I am referring to the survey entitled "The Italians and the reform of the Senate" published by IPR Marketing on 7 July. I stress the name of the institute that conducted the survey because it was the first to say that the Democratic Party would win the European elections with 40%. The reliability and certainty of the data, therefore, is not discussed. The survey first asked the Italians what they would like to do with this Senate, and 53% replied that it should be abolished before it becomes a Senate of appointed with a pile of offices. Then the same poll asked them whether the new Senate should be elected by the people or not. That, ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss their answer, because 55% of Italians want the Senate to remain elective, and only 30% of them would not want it to be elective. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not supermen, but representatives of the people, chosen by the people. First of all, we represent the citizens, then the parties and the government. I believe in my party, I respect it, I follow it, but before I take orders, I have a moral obligation to listen to those who voted for me. Also because, as well as my elected colleagues abroad, I was not nominated and put on the list in a good position to be elected. As elected abroad people chose me directly, they expressed a preference in my favour, they wrote my name on the ballot. I have and feel the duty to listen to my constituents: they are the ones who gave me the parliamentary office. Those who voted for me, moreover, continue to reassure me, to give me energy; those who voted for me write to me daily and invite me to continue in my fight for democracy. All this can only make me even more aware of my responsibility. I, ladies and gentlemen, represent the Italians of North and Central America and live in the United States of America, one of the most democratic countries in the world. In the United States the non-elective Senate, which someone thought to choose for Italy, was rejected over a century ago, exactly in 1913 with the approval of the 17th amendment to Article 1 of the American Constitution. Since then, the senators have been directly elected by the citizens, and not already chosen, as was the case before, by the legislative assemblies of the individual states. Because that is how it works in a democratic state: it is the citizens who choose, and it is good that this concept is finally understood by everyone. If anything, let us reduce the number of elected Members in the House of Deputies. On returning to the United States, in fact, I would like to remind you that there are 100 senators, while there are 435 Members compared to about 350 million inhabitants. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one here wants to hinder this reform. Nobody wants to avoid overcoming the perfect bicameralism that, I think, we all agree, is not good for Italy. Nobody thinks the Senate should trust the government. We just think that the new Senate should be elective, have equality and exercise control, have to decide on human rights issues, constitutional laws, electoral laws and the state budget. We have an objection: some of our colleagues believe that we would be prepared to drop constitutional reform in order to defend a democratic principle such as the direct election of the Senate. I want to turn the objection to you, turning it into a question: are you willing to drop the reform to defend a second-degree election? If this is not a crucial point for you, why not vote for the amendment that reinstates the direct election of the Senate? Give us an answer. How do we explain this to the citizens? Because otherwise someone will actually come to think that the Senate you have in mind is not a Guarantee Chamber of the constitutional order but, as someone before me has already said, it is simply a post-work for mayors and regional councillors. We all want reform, but we do not want hasty and superficial reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u72	Senator Turano, your time is up, so you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u73	TURANO (PD). If possible, Madam President, I would like to give the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. TURANO (PD). We are changing the Constitution and that should be enough to make us understand how important the debate is at this time that I would call historical. I am of the opinion that the mayor was elected to be mayor, that the regional councilor should be regional councillor and that the senator should be senator. Everyone must carry out exclusively the mandate for which he was elected. The sum of more charges is likely to only increase power and corruption. Italy has lost competitiveness, lost its distinctive features. There are no longer the wonderful craft shops that were handed down from father to son and that the whole world envied us. Not to mention the thousands of Italian companies that have failed in recent years despite boasting credits. These are unthinkable things. These are the real problems of the country, not the electivity of the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. TURANO (PD). Yeah, I'm almost done. Let us think carefully about the best future for Italy. We respect the citizens. They have the right and it is the Constitution that tells us. Let us give them the right to choose their representatives and let them have a direct relationship with them, a relationship that is closer. Citizen and representative must work together to solve the problems of their communities. Let us reflect, ladies and gentlemen, and vote with a sense of responsibility. Serving citizens and listening to citizens is good policy! [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and Senators Engili and Casaletto groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u75	Madam President, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the move we are taking to dismiss in this House, it must be pointed out in advance, is the passing of an era. An era in which politics has never known or wanted to renew the installation and configuration of a state that, after seventy years and different, declared difficulties, needed a re-modernization and that is not a small point. The wise and meticulous work carried out in the Commission by the rapporteurs, first and foremost, and by all the Commissioners of the 1st Commission, has this merit first of all. A work through which the text of the Government comes out with some important and significant modifications, a sign, therefore, of a path in which the space for listening and comparison has been and has been able to produce, beyond the differences, a text that we are now examining in this House, in which not only the majority forces are reflected. And already this is a result of great strength; we have said and pursued with pervicacity the objective of a text not only of majority; it could be a swamp, but so it was not. There has been a choral, difficult and tiring work, but it has accepted contributions from several parties. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a constitutional reform text is all the stronger and more authoritative when it comes out of the confines of a government agreement, it speaks to the other forces represented in Parliament and turns itself into a new architrave in which all, and many, are to be found. It was not obvious, in the past it had not happened and already this testifies to a great strength. Only by choosing to speak to everyone can one authoritatively think of ferrying the country in a new phase. In this sense it is regrettable that other important and representative forces have chosen not to confront each other; sorry, but it must be clear that this choice, which can be shared or not, cannot and must not block or freeze an ongoing process. We said: we talk to everyone, and with those who have chosen to talk and confront ourselves we started a path. Could others participate? Of course, but one thing I want to make clear right now: it was not a responsibility of the Democratic Party, on this it is good to clear the field immediately from any form of misunderstanding. In this respect, I would like to add that I welcome the willingness of the 5 Star Movement to discuss these last few days; more, I hope that from now on and already from the examination in this House we can work together for a text that aims to be of everyone, no one excluded. The Commission's work, as I said earlier, gives this House a substantially modified and enriched text; first of all, the Senate, which is again called the Senate of the Republic and which, while remaining alien to the trust relationship with the Government, nevertheless plays a central role in the constitutional order, in a position of link between the State and territorial institutions on the one hand and state and European legislation on the other. In this sense, the reference to the Upper House as a Chamber entrusted to the competition for the formation and implementation of European Union law entrusts the new Senate with a role that is far from secondary. Moreover, other functions are not secondary, such as the evaluation of the activities of public administrations, the control of public policies, as well as the control over appointments of government competence: a control over the work of the Government that is absolutely innovative. On the composition the text maintains the choice of an indirect election that allows to overcome the installation of a perfect bicameralism, but without sacrificing the peculiarity of a Chamber that stands as an element of connection between State and territorial institutions, where therefore sit representatives of the regional councils, 21 mayors of the municipalities, in the measure of one for each Region, and goes down to five the number of senators appointed by the President of the Republic; they last seven years and, in any case, cannot exceed the number of five. To the objections of those who say that the accumulation of offices would conflict with the effectiveness and operation of the mandate, the Commission responded by appropriately deciding to refer to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate the identification of cases in which to limit the election, given the exercise of local government functions that require presence and constancy. The clear intention is, therefore, to draw a new Senate where representatives of the Regional Councils and the Municipalities sit, but that - it is clear once and for all - not even for a moment we can call it "after work", because on this too the work carried out was exactly the opposite. There are many other novelties that I welcome in the text, first of all in the matter of Title V of Part II, such as the elimination of competing power and the detailed listing of their respective competences that, in addition to lightening the work of the Constitutional Court, will give the end to an eternal and tiring dispute that has paralysed an entire country in all these years. Just as I welcome the return to the power of the state of nerve sectors such as the large transport and navigation networks, the organization of communication, the transport of energy or, even more, the coordination of public finance. To those who say that there is a system that does not include weights and counterweights, I say that the answer to this is from some choices of not secondary importance. Think of the preventive judgment of constitutionality on electoral laws, which effectively prevents what has happened so far: in essence, not quite a small choice, and so much would have helped the holding of our country if it had been introduced before. As I think the objections to the Commission's decisions on a repealing referendum are highly pretentious, because it is true that the signatures requested go up to 800,000 but, when the quorum is established on the basis of participation in the last election round in the House, how can we talk about the attack or emptying of the institution? The exact opposite is true. If anything, it will be easier to make alive an institution now paralyzed by the impossibility of reaching a quorum. The same is true of the laws of popular initiative which, although they have seen the number of signatures increased to 250,000, have more stringent forecasts for the examination. In this regard too, I see no weakening of the institution which, to date, ends up playing a purely ornamental role, when it can and must be a revitalizing tool for a country's democracy. Of course, what is now being opened is a new and important phase, in which the House will work to clear the text but without overwhelming it. In this sense I feel like appealing to all of us, so that this passage has lived as a useful moment to enrich and perfect, but never to sink. There are still things you can reasonably contemplate. In this regard, I would like to hope for the introduction of a criterion that would include the gender balance of the new Senate as a qualifying and inescapable point when it comes back to the establishment of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said and written about the reforms that we are preparing in this parliamentary term, but, in my opinion, the point of merit is one above all. I do not think so much about overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which in all these years had ended with the transformation from balance factor to braking factor of the decision processes. No: the highest point of this reform is politics. The policy that, after too many years of impoverishment, inability to renew itself and get out of rituals now worn out, finds the courage to find itself again, to bet on change, acted and not immediately, in the ability to draw a constitutional framework that has the breath to hold on in the years to come. You see, colleagues and colleagues, nothing has been worse for our swamp country where it has spent the last 30 years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Maturani (PD). I'm finishing, Madam President. I really don't have a few minutes left. Here, now is the time to be able to meet these challenges, to be able to transform us to transform our country into a country finally capable of reinventing itself so as not to die. I do not believe and do not see any authoritarian twist in all this; if anything the whisper of dignity of a Parliament that, only a year ago, was found to ask the President of the Republic, the only case in republican history, the sacrifice to remain for the inability to choose. President Napolitano remained, but nailed all of us to assume a series of responsibilities. Well, today, starting with this House, Parliament is beginning to respond. Let us start from here, ladies and gentlemen, to re-use the language of politics, the true and authentic language, which is proposed as an engine capable of driving change. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u76	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u77	Madam President, representative of the Government, Senators who survived these four days of debate, before I started my speech, allow me to say something: I do not thank the two rapporteurs, I do not thank them at all. In my very personal political vision, I had the vain expectation that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Upper House there would be a sharp change in the text presented by the Government. It is true that the text has been much improved, but, in my opinion, not enough and still refers to ordinary law the dissolution of some nodes. This is obviously my questionable vision, but this was my expectation for the President of the 1st Commission, who is carrying out a reform that leaves a democratic backbone empty of democratic content. Now I'm going to tell you why I started to be interested in politics. It's a speech that starts from far away. Before I arrived here I was a psychomotorist and with this profession of mine, very privileged, I could follow the development of children aged between three and five years. I've always thought that children are the funky map of society, a healthy society has balanced children. In my first years of working in the groups of children I followed I found one or two percent of young children with relational problems and management of their emotional world. In recent years, however, the situation has been completely reversed. Children with problems were the majority, if not almost the totality. So I started to wonder if it was enough to support the children in the first years of their journey and then have healthy and balanced adults and, therefore, a just society. If it really were enough to give them adequate time and space or if, instead, it was necessary to act on other plans as well. Speaking to someone very dear to me, I convinced myself that more could and should be done. I could start to care about what was going on around me, out of my professional life. So I started, in my little one, trying to figure out what to do and how to do it. I joined a group from Bologna, "Gli amici di Beppe Grillo" (Friends of Beppe Grillo), who had been doing information since 2005. In their little ones they did great things, trying to bring, not an own idea, but information to 360 degrees, trying to push the debate. Of course, the goal was ambitious and not easy to achieve, but very engaging. The next step of the group was to choose to try to enter the institutions. Another very ambitious goal. Even more ambitious if one thinks that work was tenfold and divided into two strands: outside the institutions and within the institutions. I know that for many people sitting here (maybe not today but in the other days), the issue will be difficult to understand, but the administration of 2009 to be able to enter the institutions, even only with a councilman, in a political laboratory like that of Bologna was incredible, an extraordinary event, that we will keep forever within us. Once inside, we realized that this would be the simplest part. An example of all: every city councilman had the right to access the various databases of the municipality. But it had to be requested, and to request it you had to have the exact name of every single database, but no advisor was given to know the list of the databases present on the servers of the Municipality. I should have known from there that the system defends itself. In 2013 we arrived in Parliament, dreamers and full of enthusiasm and passion. I leave to the sender the observations of Senator Bisinella carried out in his speech this morning: when it is said to conform to the system, the North League can only remain silent. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] We thought we could move the mountains just because we were finally in the button room in Rome. When it was the turn of the election of the President of the Republic we were ready for change. Today I would like to share with you the pain in understanding that there was no willingness on the part of the system to change and that it was not enough to have entered with a fair percentage to bring a different way of doing politics. You preferred to burn enne people and deliver the country into Napolitano's hands rather than choose change. And the results are before everyone's eyes today. Fear does weird things (but I'll go back to fear). We have been reproached for having made mistakes often, but now we have grown up and learned from our mistakes. At first we made you smile, now we scare you. Not us, as people, but what we represent. This word again, fear, but I will return. The real question is only one, at this point, after billions of words spent these days: can legislators really make reforms and electoral laws "ad gruppum" (allow me this pseudolatinism, invented not by me) or, better, to exclude a certain political group? You're putting power ahead of intellectual honesty. This is the real mistake: to put the desire to manage the country and the fear of losing its reins to the obligation to allow a just society. People are now seen as voters or consumers, and palaces are seen not as managers of common beauty but as assets of few. These reforms are the direct consequence of this thinking. These reforms are a defeat, primarily for legislators and then for people. Let's get out of this short circuit. Before we think about constitutional reforms, let's take back the perfect machine that is the division of the three powers, and let's see how it works. Let's try to see if it works if the government does the government and Parliament does the parliament. If you really want to reform, restrict the government's powers instead of handing the institutions over to him all on a silver platter. Of course, let's put our hands on Title V, because it is essential to solve the problems of competence, but let's not just change the Senate. Let's change the number of MPs and senators, because there's a pretty dirty game going on here. The House of Deputies is not touched at all. It is not affected by these constitutional reforms, so, when the reforms come to the other branch of Parliament, everything will pass under silence: one day and away, voted; and this will become the fourth reading and not the first. It really seems to me a great motivation to modify a single House instead of both. Let's be clear for the umpteenth time: the Senate is not abolished; the Senate is changed with the excuse of saving. By putting both branches of Parliament's hands on the savings would have been much higher. It has also been said in this House that we are no longer two Houses but three, referring to Europe. Well, if Europe decides everything now, let us eliminate the government: it is not necessary; let us leave Parliament alone to ratify the European directives. Sooner or later it will be up to everyone to rule and I would never see a President of the Council (of whatever side it is) do the good and bad time depending on how he wakes up. No one can tell him anything anyway. Returning to mistakes, another fundamental mistake of ours was chasing you, letting you dictate the political agenda, inside and outside Parliament: never was there greater error. On the agenda we had - and I stress - to include the anti-corruption measure, the income of citizenship, the reform of justice, the issue of prisons, the issue of pollution, the hydrogeological failure, a new idea of packaging, culture: other than opening up to reforms. Of course, we are talking about reforms, but first prove to us that you really want a new system, that you really want change, that you are not afraid of citizens, that you are not afraid of losing your job inside the institutions: outside the Palaces there is the world, you can find work there too. We are talking about reforms, but, as I said before, only to delimit the government's power and to incorporate real elements of participatory democracy. We have entered the institutions with the dream of giving back power to the citizens. On the other hand, power rebels and takes off ignoring the need for whom it should represent. Here again I repeat a sentence already said in this House: if voting made any difference they would not let us do it, and never intuition was truer and more real. But perhaps you have not noticed that the economic crisis is still in progress; perhaps you have not noticed that it has become a social emergency. Are you going to light the spark for a popular uprising? Do you want to be faced with social chaos? However, let us move on to the general picture, and I repeat this only so that it remains in the proceedings for the umpteenth time, so that no one can say one day: everything has happened without my knowledge. I repeat this for the people who listen to us outside, to give them a precise picture of what will happen, an overview. Point one: the Chamber and the Italicum electoral law. If you confirm - as they will be - the blocked lists, which have already been declared unconstitutional, for the majority of the parties the MPs will be appointed by the party secretaries, and the small and medium-sized parties will remain outside thanks to the disproportionate barrier thresholds; the majority prize will be won by those who reach at least a miserable 37%. Step two: the Senate. With the reform the appointed senators will "fall" each along with their respective municipal and regional councils; the majority of the Assembly, therefore, will be entrusted to chance. Point three: the opposition. It will be decimated by the Italicum and the guillotine you want to insert into the Constitution. Step four: Head of State. The Premier will be able to choose him after the third ballot, thus transforming the President of the Republic, guarantor of all Italians, to a simple gregarious of the Government. Point five: the Constitutional Court. Nothing changes in the manner of election of constitutional judges, so who will be in the Government, thanks to Italicum, will control the aforementioned judges by transforming also this body of guarantee of a gregarious body of the Government. Ditto, as above, for the CSM and the magistrates. Step six: prosecutors and pm. According to the Quirinale, unlike the judge, the guarantees of internal independence of the pm concern the office as a whole, and not the individual magistrate: goodbye, therefore, to the balance of the diffuse power of the individual pm. Step seven: immunity. It remains for both rooms. Everything has already been said about this in this House and I would say that there is nothing else to add. Point eight: information. Two laws on all, Gasparri and Frattini. Now you think about reforms, but do you plan to delete these two laws that subject information to political power? Of the newspapers I remember only that the majority of them are in the hands of publishers who without public support would not resist three days: can they ever be independent? And then point nine, which is the last and the most important: citizens who are dispossessed of their right to vote. Without considering that this transformation of the Senate will not improve territorial management, on the contrary, it will exacerbate conflicts and political conflicts. With regard to territorial management, we are a country that aspires to have a single director and yet that proves once again that it has a low level of knowledge and skills. It is a few days ago the request of the development and cohesion departments of the revisiting of resources to relocate them to the center. All this one week after the deadline of presentation of the operational plans by the Regions. At the same time, the European Commission has already strongly warned us to write something sustainable from all points of view so that we can have the only real resources for the next six years. Before I close my speech, they cannot help but make you part of another major concern. In a country like Italy, where everything should be controlled on sight, where the law found deception is made, are we now going towards the centralization of powers in one person? What if it's the mafias who finally get that power? Many times in this House I have told you that you are handing over the country to the mafias, but I was talking about land control, a state that no longer offers any guarantee of work and legality. I never thought you'd want to give him the keys to the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u79	Madam President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, at the cost of appearing naive, I would like to say that the positive element, the highly positive fact that emerges from this long and in-depth debate, is that everyone in this House has expressed their support for reforms. No one said they were against it. No one has said that we must defend the status quo, the current bicameralism. However, in many parts of the world, among those who most firmly and vibrantly oppose the text to our examination - a text which is the result of the government's initiative but which has been profoundly modified, and I say for the better, for the better, in the Commission, then in Parliament, in the Senate - there have been methodological objections. It is right to reform, but that is not how we do it, that is not how we reform the Constitution. I have not honestly understood, even at the cost of being naive here, how colleagues think that reforms can be made, how the Constitution can be modified. To my knowledge, we can follow two modes, two procedures. One, followed in many attempts, repeated in vain in recent decades, from 1983 to now, therefore for thirty years, is to intervene on Article 138 of the Constitution by providing for derogations, by establishing an ad hoc Commission to draw up a reform text, a bicameral Commission. There were the Bozzi Commissions, Iotti - De Mita, D'Alema. The Letta Government had decided to take this path with Minister Quagliariello who had come here to explain an itinerary planned by the Government that Parliament had accepted in trusting the Letta Government. Therefore, a derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution was envisaged, the establishment of a bicameral commission, which would have had to draw up a text to be submitted to the vote of the two assemblies, and then a referendum to be held mandatory, whatever the quorum with which the reform had been approved by Parliament. This procedure of derogation from Article 138 has been fiercely contested, in my view totally exasperated, in tones and content, because it was precisely a derogation from Article 138 built in Parliament, through Article 138, as has been done many other times in the history of our country. There has been talk of an attack on the Constitution, then this procedure has been abandoned, because the withdrawal of Forza Italia from the reform table has led to the loss of a two-thirds majority, and frankly it would have been pointless to go to the referendum on a procedural issue. So we have returned to Article 138 and to the full and strictest respect for the procedure for revising the Constitution provided for in the Constitution itself. There has been no forced force on the time, so much so that we have been working in the Commission for months and we have been working in the House for several days now on the proposals put forward by the Government. There have been weeks and months of work in the Commission, hearings have been held, with the hearing of personalities and scholars of all the guidelines and an endless collection of contributions and insights. Now, presumably, we will be working in this House for a few weeks and thousands of amendments are before us. I do not think I am irreverent if I come to say that even the constituent Assembly has not devoted as much time as the one we are devoting to examining a limited aspect of the Constitution. We are not rewriting the Constitution: the first part is out of our attention, we are not talking about the form of government we are not talking about justice: we are talking about the reform of bicameralism and Title V of Part II. I believe that the Constitution did not devote itself to the question of bicameralism (especially that of the Senate) and to the question of Title V the time that this branch of Parliament devoted to it, in this first reading. Then there will be the examination of the Chamber of Deputies and the other passages. I may be ill-equipped intellectually, but honestly I don't understand where the objection is. I understand from some colleagues that the anomaly would be the initiative of the government. This would be the vulnus: I heard this word used, so fashionable. Every time we have to criticize a political choice, we are talking about vulnus. This poor Constitution is now like St. Sebastian: by virtue of vulnus (in fact, of vulnera) it is bucherellata from all sides. This vulnus would therefore come from the fact that the Government dared to make a proposal. But where is it written, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government has no power of legislative initiative in the matter of constitutional revision? I have also heard colleagues from my party, people of long parliamentary experience, who say such nonsense, that it is neither in heaven nor on earth. The Government has the right of parliamentary initiative, like every individual Member of Parliament (so much so that in that "librone" that contains the draft laws presented, there are dozens of them proposed by individual parliamentarians), as well as 50,000 citizens (maybe we will change this number) and as the Regions (there are also texts proposed by the Regions). The Government has the full right of legislative initiative, including in constitutional matters. If that were not the case, the Constitution would forbid it and, if the Constitution had forbidden it, no one would have dreamed of presenting a draft law of the Government. Instead, the Constitution provides for it and, if it so provides, it is legitimate. You can argue about the opportunity to do so in this or in that historical passage, but you can't attack the reform proposal because there was an initiative of the government. I find that frankly incomprehensible. I repeat, I will be limited, but honestly, despite my efforts and efforts to understand the reasons of my colleagues, I did not understand. Moreover, we have recently had a historical passage in our country in which it was decided otherwise (again, in terms of political opportunity), when, born the Monti Government, it was decided to distinguish clearly the plans: to the Government the initiative on economic and social reforms, to Parliament the exclusive responsibility of constitutional reforms. Unfortunately, we have seen how it ended: it has ended that economic and social reforms have been implemented - then everyone will be able to judge them differently, I have judged them overall and I judge them absolutely useful for the country - and the constitutional reforms have remained impaled. Which tells us that without a stimulus from the government, Parliament, for how it is organized today (and that is one of the reasons and not the last one for which perhaps it is necessary to reform it), does not succeed on its own, at least it has never done so. The role of stimulus, the impulse from the Government was therefore absolutely appropriate. There was, it is true, a critical passage and it would be foolish and hypocritical not to see it: that of the adoption of the basic text. Given the file with all the texts, what was the text to be preferred as the basic text? There was a critical passage there, on which, of course, all judgments from a political point of view are legitimate. Personally, as I said in the Assembly of the Democratic Party Group, I was in favour of the rapporteurs presenting their proposal, a basic text different from that of the Government, but we are in the world of questionable. What is important is that the text which came out of the Commission and which is now before this House is - let me tell you - a distant relative of the text which had entered into it, on a proposal, initiative and impetus from the Government. It is a synthesis, in my view, which is still perfect, as the rapporteurs have said in their reports when this debate is being introduced. It is certainly a perfectable synthesis, no one denies it, but it is certainly just as successful as the basic text of the Government, with that agenda Calderoli, which also had a broad and majority consensus in the Commission which contributed strongly to the subsequent debate and to the drafting of the text that is before us today. Where, then, is the problem of democracy? Where was the forcing of democracy? We should not, ladies and gentlemen, always use the atomic weapon in our debate. The atomic weapon of illegitimacy, of the fact that they are forcing and breaking the rules. Why always use these arguments when you can more flatly use rational arguments that are more adherent to the reality of things? You can say: I do not like this text. I think that points (a), (b), (c) and (d) should be changed. Why say that there is an attack on democracy when, as I tried to say, it seems to me quite flat and not polemically, we have done things inside and under the rules? And that's all there is to it! But who could tolerate in this House, starting with the President of the Senate, that the rules were violated in a heavy and systematic manner? There may be politically complex, harsh passages, but let's talk about this. Otherwise, we alone delegitimize the Parliament that we want to defend and promote. The work carried out was the best synthesis between the indispensable - it has proved historically - function of stimulus of the Government and the unbreakable function of Parliament, which in this, as in any legislative matter, still has the last word. With regard to the Government in particular, it had the merit - beginning with the President of the Council himself, when it was not yet and then became one - of extending the political debate on reforms again, because the reform table was dramatically narrowed to the crisis of the Letta Government. President Renzi then - already before as secretary of the Democratic Party - brought back to the table Forza Italia, with all the difficulties of the case, and now he is working, as we have seen several times in streaming, to keep the table also the 5 Star Movement, with a contribution that we considered absolutely positive. We are therefore working for this, that is to say to make a reform that is the most widely shared. We have the text drawn up by the Commission, thanks to the extraordinary work done by the rapporteurs, starting with President Finocchiaro, and now the decision is ours, it is the Senate Assembly, which will decide in a sovereign way, as it is in things. Then there is the other objection, according to which everything would be rushed and superficially done. It is said that it is legalizing badly, because we are proceeding quickly - and the hasty cat made the blind kittens - and we are doing a high reform, rushing to chase it is not well known which electoral deadline, without the necessary weighting, which imposes prudence in the face of such complex issues. Even in the face of this objection, at the cost of appearing naive, I am surprised for two reasons. First of all, as we have already said, we have been working on reform for months and from the debate that has taken place so far I have taken the thought - my colleagues will not want it - that many people are missing the sense of urgency that comes from the real political and institutional emergency in which the country is located. I have heard from some of my colleagues that it is not true that Europe is asking us to reform the Senate: but where do you live, ladies and gentlemen? The problem is not what Europe is asking of us, apart from the fact that it would be enough to read the press a little and see that every day there is some interview about this. The other day there was an interview with President Weber, the leader of the European People's Party in the European Parliament - which is certainly not suspicious of sympathy with President Renzi, with whom he also took a bit, as it were, in Strasbourg - who said he was sure that Italy would proceed along the path of reform and the first fundamental reform is the constitutional reform of the Senate. [[Comments of Senators Marton and Vacciano]] But that's not why we obviously have to do it. But why are the Germans, like all our other European partners, concerned about this situation? (Senator Airola leaves the Chamber.) Because we, ladies and gentlemen - there is no need to leave the Chamber, because there is no need to protest [[Comments of Senator Airola]] - we are the only European country that combines the dramatic economic and social crisis that we are experiencing, an equally dramatic political and institutional crisis. There's no other country like ours in this respect. We had the elections in 2013, which did not produce a clear majority of government; we have a President of the Republic forced, despite him, at the threshold of ninety years to a second term, because Parliament was unable to find a different solution. We have the leader of the second party of the main coalition, alternative to that of the Democratic Party... I think I have 20 minutes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Twenty minutes are running out, too. TONINI (PD). Then I'll hurry. I was saying that the leader of this alternative coalition is in a semi-freedom condition. We have an electoral law declared illegitimate by the Court, which has written another one that would not guarantee the governability of the country. We're in the fourth government in three years. In three years there have been four governments and we are talking about authoritarian drift and regime that would be established in Italy, because - I say miraculously - the Democratic Party succeeded in the European elections to obtain the certainly extraordinary result of 40% of the votes, but that nothing changes the precariousness of the balances in which we live? Today the Italians are clinging to us and Renzi, because we have seemed to him the only thing that is afloat and that can keep the country afloat, but it is in these conditions that we are living and now we think we can say: There is no urgency, let's take all the time we need. There is an urgency and it is dramatic. The truth is that we have to do it quickly and we have to do it well, and the best way to do it quickly and well is to be aware that we are dwarves on the shoulders of giants. The giants are those - as other colleagues have already said - who come from our past. We have a thorough process behind us: for decades we have been working on constitutional reforms and, in particular, on the reform of bicameralism. I would like to recall - I do not have time to read it - a report by Mr Mino Martinazzoli, which has been mentioned by other Members in this debate. In 1988 I remember a seminar of the Parliamentary Group of the DC of the Chamber, in which the problem of Senate reform was raised and it was said, in essence, that the differentiation of functions can only correspond to the differentiation of the methods of election. Already then, in 1988, this problem was raised (Ruffilli, who a few months later would find his death, was the absolute protagonist of that passage) and Martinazzoli said: we must do quickly, because the delegitimization of politics by the citizens is pressing. It was 1988; a few weeks later my first daughter was born, who voted for the first time in the Senate last year. So, we're doing so quickly that a little girl born then managed to become an elected senate. Please don't risk the ridicule. And it is not true that this reform we are doing does not have deep roots... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. TONINI (PD). I'm out, ma'am. It has already been mentioned - and with this I want to close - the thesis n. 4 of the Olive tree, certainly the daughter of that elaboration that has in Ruffilli the highest point, which clearly said: The Senate must be transformed into a Chamber of Regions, composed of representatives of regional institutions that retain local offices and can therefore express the point of view and the needs of the region of origin. The number of senators (who must be and remain members of the regional institutions) will depend on the population of the regions themselves, with appropriate adjustments to ensure the smallest regions. (...) The powers of the Chamber of Regions will be different from those of the present Senate, which today simply duplicates those of the Chamber of Deputies. The House of Deputies will be given a vote of confidence in the Government. Legislative power will be exercised by the Chamber of Regions for the resolution of the laws that concern the Regions alone, in addition to constitutional laws. It is clear that this manifesto does not have any regulatory function for any of us; it is clear that it has no regulatory power, but I mention it only to say that we can be accused of everything except that we want to make a hasty and rootless reform. The roots of this reform are deep, deep and sink into the best history of the democratic culture of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u80	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Constitutional Reform Act has finally arrived in this House to overcome the perfect bicameralism in its first reading of the four provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution. This article fortunately still exists, despite having experienced some bad moments in a recent past, thus guaranteeing, if nothing else, a study and a more in-depth debate of this complex reform that deeply affects the structure of our Constitution, the perfect Charter that has inspired us since 1948 in its delicate mechanism of weights and counterweights conceived in its time by the constituent Fathers to give the country a complete and secure form of democracy and heterogeneous representation of all the souls of our country. A long time ago two leaders of two opposing coalitions, only on paper, locked themselves in a room giving birth to the Nazarene Pact, and produced a constitutional reform combined with a new electoral law whose result will be to allow the new Head of Government, even following a minimal electoral victory, to effectively control the decision-making power of the whole Parliament, to the detriment of any form of democratic pluralism and relegating the Senate to a simple assembly of appointed by party secretariats protected by immunity. This power will also be isolated from any form of control even by the citizens, who will see greatly reduced their ability to express themselves by direct election of members of a branch of Parliament; with the impossibility of choosing parliamentarians with preferences and increasing the number of signatures needed to propose referendums, which would increase from 500,000 to 800,000, and popular initiative laws, ranging from 50,000 to 250,000. The erroneous presumption of selling these reforms as a benefit to Italy in terms of reducing the costs of politics and speeding up the legislative machinery is threatening to compromise a proper democratic balance whose consequences we risk to pay for the years to come. In this speech I do not intend to go into detail of the individual articles of the Constitution that are about to be amended, nor do I want to go into the substance of the arguments that each political force puts in place to support or hinder the reform in question. After three days of general discussion, it is now clear to everyone what is being discussed. To me personally it seems clear, not so much perhaps the design, but the more or less desired effects, that this reform brings in itself, especially if combined and combined with the other great reform that is the new electoral law so-called Italicum: the uncontrolled strengthening of the political and legislative power to the advantage of few to the detriment of the plurality of opinions, ideas and experiences that Italy has always been able to express; the absolute force that the Premier of turn and his political group comes to assume, coinciding with the progressive weakening of the compages of opposition to power, both as representation, and as endowment of those instruments of control and verification of legislative acts promulgated. But above all, it seems clear that the Palace is gradually detached from its citizens, who are increasingly less and less able to express their right to exercise the sovereignty that is guaranteed to them by Article 1 of the Constitution. On the other hand, I would like to make some general considerations about the urgency that the Government wanted to impose on the decree and the absolute importance that the Government wanted to attribute to this reform, identifying it as the reform of the reforms, the reform that all Italians ask for and that Europe, to say of the Government, awaits from us as proof of our will to do things seriously. Italy is going through the worst economic crisis since the post-war period, a deep crisis, which has lasted for a long time and of which frankly it is still not possible to see the end despite some sporadic sighting of a faint light, immediately denied by the cold statistical data, that certify a constant recession, a non-existent growth and a unemployment that is at disarming levels. This crisis is causing enormous damage in the social fabric of our country, who knows when and who knows if they will ever be able to repair. Italian families are in great difficulty, lack the money for a glimmer of decent life and work has become a mere utopia. Companies, small, medium or large, are stifled by stagnation and oppressed by an increasingly paradoxical tax, pouring thousands of unemployed people into the streets every day, who are now struggling to provide with social shock absorbers. The economy in Italy does not start again, a taillight in albeit ill Europe, and crime and corruption have now become endemic, rooted to such an extent that it no longer surprises to read the judicial reports related to any work or public work from North to South. Winds of war are blowing more and more insistently not far from us. Because of this, people's confidence in the institutions has reached levels that are never so low and can be verified by observing the percentage of turnout at the polls of the last elections. In this uncomfortable scenario of Italy's immense suffering, I find it at least inappropriate that the Government and Parliament should be called upon to legislate with an enormous amount of intellectual and time resources and that an absolute media and strategic importance is attributed to the discussion of a constitutional bill that exclusively concerns problems, processes, procedures, methodologies of exclusive urgency and the need of the political class and that no benefit leads to the resolution of the problems of the country. Precisely at this delicate moment for the country the political class decides to look in the mirror and decides to reorganize itself not - in my opinion - to better face the difficult challenges that await it, but to redistribute the internal balances of power, de facto breaking down our Constitution and leaving open dangerous cracks through which it is not excluded that in the future we can infiltrate desires of authoritarianism that this country has already, unfortunately, tasted in the past and that our Constitution guarantees that they cannot repeat in the future with its well studied structure. As if that were not enough, this reform guarantees the Palace further detachment and abstraction from citizens and their prerogatives of participation in political life, detachment that visibly contrasts with the desire for active and direct participation, detachment that sends a wrong message of further distance and inability or lack of desire to take care of the country. The reforms that the country wants from us are others, much more important, much more incisive. We should devote every second of our precious time to the solution of this crisis, to give back hope with deep structural reforms that affect the whole country, that will restart the economy and create jobs, that will fight corruption and crime, that will promote smart, healthy growth, that respects the environment and that is lasting and involves all social groups. Instead, here we are, completely outside the context, talking about the indirect election of senators, governability, quorum referendaries and regional advisers, under constant observation by the prosecutors, transformed at the same time into voters replacing citizens and elected to protect parliamentary immunity, all propedeutic to a forthcoming discussion on barrier thresholds, unconstitutional majority prizes, double shifts and blocked lists. Everything seems quite surreal, also because it does not seem to see a real discussion or dialogue. Everything seems already decided, despite the flight of some owl, or the presence of some dissident (terms so unhappy in a democratic debate) accused of being attached to the chair or allowance only for having expressed an opinion. They insist: "But the Italians ask us!" This is the phrase that usually uses politics to self-justify and self-certification the permission to carry out actions that often have nothing to do with the questions of the Italians. I am sure that no Italian in line for hours in a post office while withdrawing the little pension or in the middle of a street with the mobility check expired, dreams of the end of the perfect bicameralism or the indirect electivity of the Senate. I am, indeed, sure that in the face of such questions the answers can sometimes be very unpleasant. Nor can we take the result of 41% achieved in a European electoral round as anything to do in this regard, not least because due to strong abstention, the remarkable result is reduced to just over 20% of Italians. It is too little to proceed with the demolition and rewriting of the Constitutional Charter! And they still insist: "But governability must be guaranteed!" Governance is not a quality that can be imposed by law, on the contrary, it must not! The ability to govern is about the sense of responsibility and institutional duty of each and this is sublimated by the participation in the debate of as many different voices as possible, giving full meaning to the concept of democracy and representation. We have also seen how sometimes Bulgarian percentages of the majorities in turn have not served at all to guarantee a quiet and serene governability. To sweep away minorities and reduce the means of control and verification of the activity of a majority is not synonymous with governability, but rather with a lack of democracy. And again and again they insist: These reforms ensure greater efficiency and speed in the legislative process to best respond to the country's growth. Apart from not always, to use euphemism, speed is synonymous with efficiency; I can't help noticing how this legislature, in this year and a half, has fired a considerable number of decrees and proposals of law, despite the so-called constitutional impediments that want to sweep away; instead, it should be considered the quality of the measures fired, perhaps not always up to the needs of the country. It is therefore a matter of proceeding quickly or of having more courage in the choices to be made. As far as speed is concerned, I would not like to talk about the end of measures, once they have been laid off by Parliament, which have been pending implementation for years in who knows which office or who knows what setback. But this has nothing to do with perfect bicameralism or indirect election of senators. Perhaps there are other measures to be taken in this regard without destroying the Constitution. And finally, they insist: These reforms ensure that the costs of the policy are reduced. This is a subject to which citizens are rightly sensitive, but should the Constitution be changed objectively in order to achieve this effect? Several solutions have been proposed to the problem, totally ignored. It would be enough to significantly reduce the number of Members in both branches of Parliament, to reduce the compensation or reimbursement of Members, offices and so on. In short, I do not really see the urgency and the need for such a measure, then loaded with such symbolic value, especially if compared with those that are the real problems of the country. Our Constitution, although young, is approaching the seventy years of life, therefore rightly needs some small maintenance; but here we are just going further, here we are touching the democratic foundations that have guided and still lead the country. I do not appeal to reconsider the country's priorities and to reconsider the effectiveness of this measure: the priorities that Italy needs, faced with the biggest economic crisis since the post-war period, are not these. Italy actually needs real and urgent reforms: to relaunch the economy and recreate work; to revise the tax system and to make the tax payers pay; to combat crime; to defend itself against attacks of financial speculation; to guarantee the weakest; to combat poverty; to reform the machinery of justice; to save the environment and the territory. Colleagues, let us not give up our democracy, but let us defend our Constitution! [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group, M5S and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to say right now that I shall be voting in favour of this constitutional change, partly because I am the son of this Senate and I am the only one who has the DNA of that family that has helped to make the Constitution. In 1982, a great President of the Council (I beg Senator Tonini to admit that before 1988 there was 1982), who was called Bettino Craxi, at that great conference, led a program of change and governance of society, was running on the 31st of March. In this House, in this House, I think I am the only one who participated very young (I was in the back row) in that extraordinary event. Thirty-two years ago Bettino Craxi, and the socialists had gathered because - as Senator Sacconi said, without quoting Bettino Craxi, and this I reproach him - in 1982 there were those who said that our Constitution was like a horse-drawn carriage in a world where there were carriers, there were planes (of course it could not speak of text messages because they had not yet been invented and there was not yet this great computerization and globalization). Thirty-two years before the current majority of the Democratic Party that governs Italy, those socialists had identified a path to bring Italy to be great. Those socialists, in the eighties, had made Italy great, because our country was the fifth economic power of the world, the unemployment rate was half lower than today and the income per capita was twice that of the current one and there were two thirds less poor. Therefore, it was an Italy actually protagonist in Europe and in the world, whose prestige was obviously skyrocketing. From here we start and believe that what is possible is much better than nothing, in the sense that a little is much better than nothing. We must, therefore, modernise our Constitution in order to allow ourselves to be in step with the times, as those Socialists of the Constituent said, who were well aware of the fact that our country was emerging from an important conflict: with weights and counterweights they allowed us, for seventy years, to be a participatory democracy. They knew perfectly well that only with perfect bicameralism, at that time, could such guarantees be given. They knew that the powers of the Executive, the President of the Republic, the Parliament, the Chamber and the Senate, and what is now prevailing, and is decisive in all our choices, namely the judicial one, had to be limited. They knew it perfectly well and they gave us articles 67 and 68, trying in any way to prevent us from drifting away in which we are now. Some parties in this House, in fact, are pro-Justicelists, they are with the judiciary, willing to take power - as they then took - by judicial and non-democratic means. Therefore, if we start from these assumptions, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to consider change as valid at this time. If it's the right one, we don't know, but you certainly need to start putting it in place. But more courage was needed. I have tabled several amendments (about forty), because we must look for the key to open all the doors of modernization, those that concern not only one part but the entire country. The door of justice must also be opened with the riddle. I have therefore tabled an amendment to remove from the Constitution the mandatory prosecution, which we alone have in the world. The ill-justice and mandatory prosecution lead us to two points of less GDP and cost us 30 billion a year, which would be enough for the economic maneuver that the government will be forced to do by the end of the year. In fact, I remember that ECOFIN said that to our Minister for Economic Affairs the other day, and that is what we will have to do. It would therefore be sufficient to make such changes in the Constitution. It would be enough to modify the MSM and foresee its election in a different way. It would suffice to foresee the separation of careers in the Constitution in order to achieve definitely modernization and to keep up with all other countries. But I'll tell you more. With the amendment of Title V of the Constitution we must have the courage to remove health from the regions. Vivadio, I am a power of expenditure, a continuous accumulation of expenditure and inequality. Let me remind you that we have 21 different health systems. It is not true that Italy is unique and indivisible: in the area of health care it is divided into 21 States and the expenditure is binding and hard. The constitutional interest of health is not guaranteed in the same way. So what do we have to do? We need to get health back to the state. By doing so and eliminating defensive medicine, we will save two more points of GDP. As all surveys and statistics tell us, defensive medicine costs us two points which, translated, amount to EUR 20-30 billion, which are what we need for development and the social state. In Rimini, in 1982, there was talk of merits and needs: two foreign words in recent years to the successive governments. It is necessary to return to this balance. Yesterday I listened to Mr Cattaneo's heartfelt appeal, which spoke to us about research, innovation and our young people. This is the merit; in the Regions, instead, only the recommended and members of a card are sent forward. That is what we must prevent. My colleague Cattaneo said that she will assess her vote on the basis of the courage to modernise the country with the reform of Title V as well. So perhaps there are times, ladies and gentlemen, for a more complete speech, plus 360 degrees. With the amendments we will try to find an even better square than the one that came out, although positive. As I said at the beginning, I will be among those who will vote in favour, but I will try, I will do so and I will endeavour to improve the text. At the same time, one cannot accept that, under the pretext of the direct or indirect election of this Senate, one is failing what is - instead - the modification of Title V. I would like to recall some statements by the president of the Campania Region, Stefano Caldoro (on whom President Renzi then made a joke), who said that we must review the Regions and make macro-regions. It is not possible to have regions with more than 10 million inhabitants, such as Lombardy, and regions like Molise or Basilicata, with 300,000 inhabitants. You have to come to them: this is courage. In Germany, which has a territory above ours of almost a third, the Länder are sixteen. Today, in the German Parliament they are reducing them to ten and we have twenty. It is then important, with macro-areas, to be able to have more slender regions, perhaps combining the macro-area of the North-West (Valle d'Aosta, Piedmont and Liguria) or those of the Centre-Nord (Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna), the Triveneto, the Centre (Tuscany, Sardinia, Marche, Umbria, Lazio, Abruzzo), the South (Molise, Campania, Puglia and Basilicata), or the macro-area of the Strait (Calabria and Sicily). That's the courage. This leads us to have, no longer three or four regional councils, but one. This will reduce the costs of politics. There's only one shopping center here. Here you really do the service to the Italians. Here, in fact, after removing the Provinces, it is possible to put the Regions, the macro-regions and the Municipalities on the same level (the State must obviously have a higher step, otherwise there will always be recourse to the Constitutional Court). That is what we must have the courage to do. I have tabled amendments to this effect, because matters such as health protection, sport and civil protection must be at the head of the State. How do you leave them at the head of the Regions? Does each region do its own civil protection? How can we leave matters such as national public transport, mines, quarries and peat bogs, the government of the territory, ports and airports, and large transport and navigation networks in the hands of regions of 300,000 inhabitants (like half of a non-popular neighborhood in Rome)? That is what we must try to have the courage to do. The Constitution is a means of bringing development, employment and well-being to the Italians. What do you want Italians to care if we do the second-level Senate or direct election? They are interested in development and economy. They want their kids to find work. They want a social state to assist them in the moment of need, illness, loss of work and, in the late age, assistance for chronic and crippling diseases. They need this, and that is what we must strive to do. If, in those about 8,000 amendments, the rapporteurs identified those 5, 10, 15 proposals that could improve the text, it would be of interest to everyone. Therefore, we must be positive and not say that the Constitution is that made by socialists, Catholics and communists in 1948 and is not touched. The founding and constituent Fathers themselves have included in the Constitution the possibility of modernising it. We have not done this for 70 years and, when we did it, in 2001, we did it badly, because we have created centres of spending and inequality. But it had been approved by only four majority votes. We must make an effort, all the groups, to find the best solution. Someone says it needs to be found quickly. In fact, if not urgently, after 70 years, it is indeed necessary to do something. I do not criticize President Renzi for having stimulated us to reform the Constitution, because, between the Bicameral, the federal reform approved in 2005 by the Berlusconi Government and then again the bill Caliendo (approved by this branch of Parliament last legislature), we never went to the bottom and we always remained with the wax in hand. And someone finally told us, quite rightly. I quote one sentence - which I agree with - of Abraham Lincoln who, when he was President of the United States, said that there is so little time to do great things that we must not wait, but we must hurry because, otherwise, time inexorably passes and we cannot give those answers that need to be given and that our citizens expect. It is not enough for our citizens to see that we eliminate the Senate or modify it, because they want answers in terms of governance and, above all, in terms of development, employment and research. So, there is nothing but to share the position of those who say that it is better to do something, rather than nothing. I liked a sentence, quoted by a colleague, of St. Francis of Assisi, which said: Begin to do what is necessary, then what is possible. And all of a sudden you'll be surprised to do the impossible. I recognize myself in this sentence. Why do we always have to say no in advance? Mr. No. It must be recognized that someone encouraged us to do something (and the agreement of the Nazarene, in which I recognize myself, goes in that sense), to agree to share a path that leads us to start changing in the wake of those who were the fathers of this country. And I am referring not only to the constituent Fathers, but also to the members of the De Gasperi and Moro Governments. And on the Moro government it is astonishing to read in these days in the newspapers that the "doctor Pieczenik", the psychiatrist called by Cossiga in 1978 to try to resolve the issue, say that the order was not to free Moro or to save him, but was to protect stability. And you know that we socialists, with Craxi, didn't think that way, and we obviously wanted Aldo Moro free. He is one of the Fathers, along with Togliatti, Nenni, Saragat and Pertini. In that 1982 I got to know Sandro Pertini at the Rimini fair when, not yet President of the Republic, he was sitting in the front row at that convention for the renewal and modernization of the country. There were also Amato, De Michelis, and many leaders who made Italy great in the last century. Madam President, I shall start by concluding because my time is up and running: there would be a lot to say, but, as I said before, I will return only to the amendments that bear the supremacy of the State (to prevent recourse to the Constitutional Court by the Regions); to the proposal of the macro-regions that I have submitted to you and to the other amendments amending Title V, in order to bring back matters such as health, civil protection, food, major roads to the State. In conclusion, I take back the jokes between the governor of Campania Stefano Caldoro and the president of the Council Matteo Renzi: to Renzi who, with respect to the idea of macro-regions, said "I am a caldorian," in his interview the President of the Regional Council says that if Renzi succeeds in carrying out that project he will be Renzi. I believe, with this line, that I have summarized how important the modification of Title V in favour of Italians is. The Italians, the sovereign people, are not interested in the way of election; it is not a vulnus to democracy (electing us in one way or another does not matter): the important thing is that there are their representatives who make their interest. So, after 32 years since 1982, we finally came to an amendment that I think is a milestone, and I am excited to be the only representative of that socialist DNA that is no longer present in this Senate of the Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are registered to speak Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u84	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members who have listened to my speech. I find it difficult to close the speeches of our parliamentary group, since colleagues have been able to identify with precision and explain all the critical points of a reform that is not limited to the measure, even complex, that we are dealing with these days, but is deeply linked to the nascent electoral law and, as I have learned with interest today, also to option 4 of a political programme of a party a few years ago. I am also fully aware that nothing will change my few words where the illustrious voices of jurists and constitutionalists have failed, who have expressed reasonable concerns about this epochal reform. I shall therefore begin my speech by doing what I have entered this institution for: the spokesman. I faithfully report the voice of citizens to whom I asked what they thought of what was happening to our Constitution. This is Antonietta's comment: This reform aims only to further centralize the government's powers, by subtracting citizens from the possibility of indicating their preference. The government neglects that it is no longer time to pursue a policy of privileges, that voters will not reward a party to which they would find themselves a tomorrow forced to delegate any decision, not to mention the sharp weakening of the control and guarantee bodies. Perhaps the public is not aware that the law we are debating in this House is intended to depress the electorate of the choice of senators, while there is already nothing, because of the blocked lists, to express preference among Members. That the government's unstated objective is clearly to reduce the quorum in the parliamentary elections, because such rules discourage the exercise of democracy and encourage precisely that abstentionism without which the famous 40% of the Democratic Party would never have been achieved. Moreover, in order not to take further risks, the Government, irresponsibly, fears the possibility of making the law in question part of the Constitution, thus arrogantly arming the unilaterality of its decisions. It is time to oppose with determination the destruction that is intended to take place in this Republic, in accordance with the principles of citizenship and democratic participation. Alessandro asks two questions, I turn them to the House as a stimulus for reflection: Can a Parliament elected on the basis of a law declared contrary to the Constitution be legitimately entitled to amend that same Constitutional Charter? Would it not be appropriate and desirable for such an abnormal reform, such as the one that is emerging, to be implemented by a Parliament chosen by the citizens on the basis of the criteria laid down by the Constitutional Court? And again: At the moment when the Senate determined its usefulness in the present composition, establishing that an organ composed of subjects appointed by the parties in fact can work more effectively and efficiently and therefore render a better service to the country, would it not be appropriate, at least for those who endorse with their vote this orientation, to submit immediate resignation? I give myself a small space for a personal consideration on this last question: from opposition I often feel disillusioned, sometimes frustrated or discouraged, but never, and I repeat, never useless... I hope it will be the same for each of you who will vote for this reform. But let's move on. Happy writes: A reform to be rejected as it only tends to increase the power of the MPs in the face of the realization of a ridiculous economy with the (false) abolition of the Senate. There is no contradiction about the promulgation of laws between the two chambers and, consequently, Members can legislate as they wish, since they are not subject to any other opinion. The economies resulting from the abolition of the Senate can easily be achieved by halving the number of senators and deputies, as well as regional and municipal councils. In this way, spending would be reduced by 50 percent, far beyond what can be achieved by simply abolishing (fake) the Senate. From the point of view of the functionality of the Rooms, the reduction of 50% would certainly involve shorter debates and less time of approval of the laws. Luke also raises interesting questions: "But how? Has it not always been said that citizens should be encouraged to participate in national political life? And against this we fear a second-level elective Senate (why Senate of nominees sounds bad) and an increase in the signatures necessary to propose referendums and popular initiative laws? Will they not be proposed in a slight contradiction to the stated objective? Louis finally says: "The Constitution is the foundation of the Republic. If it falls from the heart of the people, if it is not respected by the political authorities, if it is not defended by the Government and by Parliament, if it is tampered with by the parties, the hard ground on which our institutions are manufactured and anchored our freedoms will fail. Well, on the last I cheated, it was Luigi Sturzo in a very current 1957 speech. The others were people who informed themselves beyond the ordinary media, who tried to deepen the issues contained in the legal texts under discussion. People who haven't stopped at the robatory announcements that daily pass on newspapers and televisions, so having a non-elective Senate and a soft dictatorship of the majority will solve every national problem. Starting from the work, perhaps, or the social emergency, probably to the sound of decree-laws that will be approved at the speed of light by a Chamber of ratification and sometimes by a Senate of appointed transformed, as someone said at the beginning of this debate, in a "parerificio". Decrees that then, like all those we have seen in recent months, will leave a trail of tens or hundreds of implementing provisions scattered in the meanders of the unchanged Italian bureaucracy. Yet I realize that only a small minority of citizens have a sufficiently clear idea of the framework that is emerging in the pseudo-democratic future of our country and perhaps we should honestly ask ourselves why. We should ask ourselves whether we are providing the Italians with all the elements to determine whether this is the new Republic they want and how far it is, if it is, from the previous Berlusconi reform, which you colleagues in the PD have so largely opposed. Or simply say that a bad constitutional reform becomes good when the first intestate changes. But let's get back to the first question. Why so much disinterest? Because the real problems are others, so this is the good time to pass the poisoned meatball that you will only notice in a few years (maybe about twenty...)? Why is the information on the left and right all aligned and covered with the thoughts of the new man of the Italian miracle? Or maybe because the information is right and left, instead of being information and that's it, but that's another theme. Why is the Italian people a menefregist people? And if so, even though I believe that we are living proof that it is not, has it always been or has it become? Calamandrei claimed that one of the insults to the Constitution is indifference to politics, political indifferentism: well, I believe that this is precisely the main problem, the disease of our nation. A disease, ladies and gentlemen, which politics itself, instead of treating, has led to the extreme consequences: how many scandals have citizens had to see in the last thirty years? How many more do you keep seeing these days? How many robberies? How many injustices perpetrated by those subjects who were supposed to represent and protect them and who instead exploited their position to gain personal privileges beyond what the generous laws already granted? Can we really say surprised by the indifferentism, or perhaps it would be better to say by the "schifo" that the Italians try towards what is commonly called "politics"? But finally today we are discussing the law that will definitively resolve this situation: the law on corruption! No, I'm sorry, they lost track of that one. Today we are talking about changes to the Constitution. Perhaps, as Montanelli said: "In Italy you can only change the Constitution, the rest remains as it is. Or perhaps the idea that was to pass was just this: politics is a dirty thing, to avoid like the plague. So no one disturbs the maneuverer, who always knows the best way for the country and with a little patience we also get rid of that annoying category of citizens, who still think they decide something about their future. I believe that the exact definition of this endangered species is "electors." The mantra of these days is that the amendment to the Constitution and its modernisation in the form you want it to take is something inevitable. After all, that anti-fascist legacy, contaminated by the compromise between DC and PCI, has become an obsolete and annoying burden, also those garrisons that guaranteed the impossibility of a, albeit gradual, return to dictatorship are now a useless orpello. Although on this point, given the choices made, reassurances would be helpful. In any case, since I do not want to tease you further, I would like to be able to leave the full text of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I just want to conclude by recalling what Calamandrei said during the famous speech given to students in 1955, which is still a dead letter. You tell us that we have to change the Constitution, but we have never even achieved it. The Constitution, what we gave ourselves at the moment we were sober, to be true for the moments when we are drunk, even as a result of electoral hangover. Enjoy the work at all. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u85	The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u88	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I believe that the sitting of this House can be considered to be over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, it is over, the debate has ended. BUCCARELLA (M5S). So, Madam President, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of myself, the Senator Petrocelli Holding Company and the Mangili Senators, Marton, Montevecchi, Airola, Gaetti, Moronese, Molinari, Puglia and also Senator Candiani, I ask for the inclusion in the calendar of a topic and, in particular, I refer to the bill n. 131 concerning the abolition of the Provinces, which, in the light of the determinations of the Conference of the Capigroup today, which set the time limits for the next week's calendar, for the vote and dismissal of the text of constitutional reform, appears of a clearly urgent nature and has occurred, following precisely today's determinations. We therefore ask that it be included in the timetable, at the first useful date and obviously in advance of the continuation of the debate and of the vote on constitutional reforms, the bill n. 131, on the Provinces, obviously drawing on the subject of Title V, which is, in part, the subject of constitutional reforms. I formalise the request and ask the President to follow up the vote provided for in the article I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u89	Senator Buccarella, I believe this is not possible because it is not a situation that has occurred. It is a situation that was fully aware of the members of the Conference of Leaders, who had both the text of the constitutional reform under discussion and the possible need to include this other issue in the timetable. Since it has not been put forward there, I believe that it can be discussed there. There is therefore no need for an urgent and urgent situation, the existence of which is a condition for accepting the request and putting it to the vote. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't give her the floor anymore. I answered your request. [[Senator Buccarella's comments.]] Please, I'll give you the replica.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Of course I'm not doing this to waste my time, because we're all tired and tried. Madam President, if it were true what you say, i.e. if this had been the subject of a request at the Conference of the Leaders, then that would have been an obstacle to the request under Rule 55 (7) being submitted to this House. I and my colleagues who support this request can only do so now, at the first opportunity, after the timetable today, and not before this afternoon, has been fixed as it has been set. I therefore insist on asking for, supporting and laying the foundations for the circumstance that the survival took place during this same sitting: before this sitting began, this request could not be made. I believe that it is not objectively out of the blue to say that we have a bill that is ready to come to the House and that it is obviously preparatory to the amendment of Title V of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u93	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Madam President, you are well aware that the timetable is adopted unanimously in the Group Leader. It was not adopted unanimously today, so it is true that we voted in this House. This, as Mr Buccarella said, is therefore the first useful opportunity to carry out the intervention pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the surgery was... baptist (Misto-ILC). Are you giving me your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u94	First of all, I would like to point out that it is of course up to the Presidency to apply the Rules of Procedure, that this rule has already been interpreted and applied in this sense on other occasions and that, in this case, you referred to the Conference of Leaders, and precisely at that time the timetable was adopted by a majority and then the House approved it and the issue was not raised. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I therefore believe that this issue cannot be taken for reasons which I have already expressed and which I confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u97	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure, which I read that under Rule 55 (7), the Assembly may, at the end of each sitting, decide, either on a proposal from the President or at the request of the Government or of eight senators. It is not the President's discretion in this case. There is a request from eight senators, which must of course be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u98	The President shall assess whether there are any grounds for applying that rule and therefore whether the matter has occurred and urgent. This assessment is obviously the responsibility of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u101	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I would like to confirm that, according to the Group of the Party of European Socialists, your interpretation is the correct one. Furthermore, considering the situation in this House at this time, we would like to point out that there is probably a lack of quorum. If necessary, we will officially request a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u102	But the matter is not allowed, so there is no question of checking the quorum. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] The quorum shall be verified if the vote is taken by show of hands. The Presidency considers, also in relation to the fact that the matter has already been put to the group leaders some time ago, and therefore it has not happened, let alone urgent, that it should not be put to the vote. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You're trampling on the Rules of Procedure! And for the umpteenth time!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u103	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Mussini repeatedly asks to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-283.ana.u104	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Monday 21 July, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 16 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
