ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on documents VIII, No 3 (Report on Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013) and VIII, No 4 (Project for the internal budget of the Senate for the financial year 2014). I remember that the joint debate ended in the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u7	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, it is my fault that we did not present the G40 agenda in the afternoon sitting. Since you have been very magnanimous to Senator Giarrusso, I would like to be able to attach to the proceedings my speech on the G40 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u8	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I call on Senator Commissioner Malan to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who spoke during the joint general debate. To a large extent, my fellow Members have put forward agendas, and I will therefore reply to those who have spoken on these issues in their opinions. I would also like to thank those who have made general considerations, such as Senator Bertorotta, to whom I would like to remind you that, apart from the fact that the work of the Senate, the Commission and the House, as we saw a few weeks ago, goes far beyond the period of time on Tuesday-Thursday, the work of the senators certainly does not take place only in this House, otherwise we would represent only ourselves. I believe that almost all the senators have a series of commitments on the territory, within the parties or movements to which they belong, to contact the categories and administrators of the territory, because if we are always here it is not strange that we are accused of being closed in the Palace; instead, the days free from the work of Parliament, as well as to study, prepare documents, amendments, agendas and drafts of law, must be used to have contacts with the world that I would like to define as real. I would like to thank Senator Pegorer for his positive words on the path to date in the field of rationalization and the best administration of the Senate. We must continue along this path with the work we have done in this year and a half of the current parliamentary term and which we intend to continue. I would like to thank Senator Colucci, who has made a thorough examination not only of the issues contained in the budget, but in general of the functions which the internal organisation of the parliamentary chambers must have, of which he has a great and long experience and which he has made a positive contribution. Among the many points touched on, I would like to stress his call for measures to be taken, especially when they concern employees or former employees, who are then declared illegitimate in some places; measures that may have a flash of importance at once, but that in the end it is discovered that they do not make any savings and that, indeed, something more is spent, because certain rules made too hastyly are cancelled by judicial bodies. To Senator Candiani, who has proposed a specific issue not formulated on the agenda, I answer informally, therefore not with the formality of the agenda, which we will certainly urge the company that currently manages the catering services to use as much as possible Italian food, bearing in mind that these services are currently entrusted with a tender and therefore we can do nothing but solicit them. When it comes to renewing the contract, I believe that we will certainly be able to ask those who have the right to draw up the contract documents materially for the use of Italian foods, fully sharing the considerations he has made. I also thank Senator Di Giorgi for her contribution to the discussion and for the deepening of the issues we are dealing with together. I come to the opinions. I am in favour of the G1 (text 2) agenda, which, if adopted, as I suppose, absorbs the G19, G20, G22, G23 and G37 agendas, which deal with the same subjects, proposing slightly different or even identical solutions. I am in favour of the G2 agenda. We are already working, through a series of meetings with our fellow Quaestors, as well as between the Presidency bodies and the summits of the structures of both Chambers, to go in the direction of the single role and the single status of Parliament's employees. As regards the G3 agenda, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, I am in favour of accepting it, provided that certain amendments are made. Firstly, it is proposed to delete the first paragraph of the device, because it deals with issues already touched on in other agendas. With regard to the second paragraph of the proposal, it is proposed that, in order to make possible the implementation of the agenda, the documents be forwarded to the members of the Presidency Council with 7 days in advance (instead of 30 days), which are sufficient for an examination of the documents. It is also requested to replace the expression "Excel" in Excel format with the generic words "in spreadsheet format" as "Excel" is a registered trademark. With these amendments, I am voting in favour of this agenda. For the agendas G4 and G5, presented by Senator Comaroli, we propose a reformulation of the devices of both, because both go in the same direction and, in part, they even overlap. The rewording of the commitment is as follows: "to assess whether it is appropriate to conclude the examination of the statement and the forecast balance within the deadline provided for by the RAC" - the accounting administrative regulation - "in accordance with the technical closing times of the previous financial year, on the basis of the decisions within the competence of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups." I would remind you that one thing is the approval of the College of Quaestors and another is that of the Presidency Council, which, in the case of this year, took place at the end of July. There are also, of course, the needs of the House, and it is the Conference of Leaders that determines when the individual subject is on the agenda. This applies to ordinary parliamentary work and also to the discussion of the Senate's accounts and budget. The G6 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, is accepted provided that three chapters are deleted from the premises that express negative assessments of the current conduct of the Senate administration and that, of course, we cannot share. Otherwise he would be welcomed. The leaders are the fourth, the fifth and the sixth, from the words "vi" it is however to be emphasized until the words "transparency of the budget of the Senate." It is therefore the last three chapters of the premises. With regard to the agenda G7, presented by Senator Comaroli, we will accept it as a recommendation, in the sense of studying the IPSAS system which provides for the subdivision by cost centres. This system can undoubtedly go well in a Ministry or other sectors, but in the Senate which, basically, has almost only one cost center, becomes abnormal. However, it was considered useful to study the system. The same opinion, and therefore a recommendation for the purpose of studying the system, applies to the request on the G8 agenda to apply the SIOPE system, which is used in various public bodies. This is mainly to allow the Treasury of the State, which is unique for all these institutions, to measure needs and do the subsequent operations. The Senate works differently; there is a budget that has always been sufficient, because there has never been any overtaking - much less in recent years - and therefore the Treasury of the State knows perfectly what the amount is and, on our part, has no surprises, if anything has positive surprises. As regards the G9 agenda, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, I am against it. I am also opposed to some of the following agendas, pointing out that the economic treatment of senators has already been reduced in real terms by around 30% over the last seven years. This level, which is still blocked for several years, is considered appropriate and certainly lower than that of parliamentarians from other major European countries. I therefore object to the G9, G10, G11, G12, G13 and G14 agendas. The G15 agenda is adopted as a recommendation, provided that the mechanism is reworded as follows: "Invites, for their respective competences, the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, in order to rationalise costs and spaces, to review the type of treatment granted to the non-appointed Presidents of the Senate, also in relation to the constitutional reform of the perfect bicameralism." The G16 agenda, presented by Senator Battista and other senators, is accepted as a recommendation provided that the mechanism is reworded in the following terms: "invites (...) to deepen, through a joint study with the Chamber of Deputies, the possibility of carrying out a different management of the pension treatment of parliamentarians, also with a view to their single status". I now come to order G17, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, apologizing, Mr President, for the length of my speech, due to the high number of agendas to be examined. I am against it, because it proposes an extension of the contribution of solidarity to the vital benefits - i.e. pension, as regards the last part - of the senators who have ceased their term of office, because the same rules apply to the Senate for all other types of social security treatment. We therefore believe that the current type of solidarity contribution which, I repeat, has already been introduced in full adherence to the general rules is appropriate. I also object to the G18 agenda, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, for the same reasons as previously stated. I would remind you that the end-of-term allowance is the result of a provision which is paid to the senator's, of course, gross allowance, so it is not really possible to confiscate what is already relevant to the individual senator. The G19 and G20 agendas propose to address in a different way, even if in the same direction, the subject dealt with in point (f) of agenda G1 (text 2), with regard to the cessation of the provision of life allowances for senators who have ceased office and who have reported convictions for particularly serious crimes. The G21 agenda has been withdrawn, otherwise I would have called for it. Agendas G22 and G23 are absorbed by the G1 (text 2). I call for the withdrawal of the G24 agenda, because the aims of this classification are not very clear. This would certainly lead to a bureaucratic increase in the management of the parliamentary groups, which are entitled to their autonomy, within the framework of the transparency introduced by the regulatory amendment adopted two years ago. It would also risk giving rise to further calls for sanatories and inclusions in roles such as those that were carried out more than twenty years ago, both in the House and in the Senate, which have created problems and uncertainties also with regard to the beneficiaries. That dealt with by the G25 agenda is certainly an issue to be addressed: I propose that it be accepted as a recommendation, in order to carry out a study on the subject in order to apply to the Senate, with its peculiarities, a rule that is general. However, I would stress that acceptance as a recommendation does not mean that things are not done, but that we are not sure whether we are doing so or that, as in this case, we need to ascertain how to apply it, precisely because it is an effective and real measure. It is therefore a recommendation to make and we accept it as such. The G26 agenda, which contains Senator Buemi's proposal to form a single pension institution for constitutional bodies, is accepted in order to carry out a study in this direction. It is clear that this is a complex problem, but it is certainly to be dealt with and this could be an interesting solution. On the agenda of the G27, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, I am against it, because it would be a question of introducing a limit that the ordinary law does not provide and is not seen because it penalises the employees of the Senate - in this case the former employees - in a particular way compared to civil servants or, in any case, with respect to pensioners in general. The proposal on the G28 agenda, which I fully agree with, provides that the staff of the Senate called upon to carry out their work in other administrations, and which is currently paid by the Senate itself for the first three years, will be paid by the administration that calls them. Of course, it is always a matter of public administration. We accept this as a recommendation, because it is a forecast to be studied in detail, given that such reports are already in place and it is therefore a question of understanding how to resolve this issue. It seems to us entirely acceptable that those who make use of the very useful work of our staff - it is a fact that the Senate has always rightly considered it a recognition of the importance of the role of the staff and of the advisers of the Senate, who are so valuable that they are often contended with by other administrations - are called to pay them, because then each institution is charged the expenses. Paradoxically, there are people who work in some ministries and who are paid by the Senate. We move on to the agenda, essentially equal, G29, presented by Senator Mucchetti, G30, presented by Senator Saggese, G31, presented by Senator Pelino, G32, presented by Senator Marinello, G33, presented by Senator Council, and G34, presented by Senator Di Biagio. These agendas provide for the transposition of the Frattini law, which allows public managers, for certain periods, to temporarily leave the office they have with the public administration - in this case at the Senate - to work with private or international realities. This is an interesting rule, and since it has never been changed thirteen years after its introduction it is evidently seen as a positive experience. However, we must stress the specific problems of the Senate, in which not only are laws applied, perhaps in an important way, as happens for example in the Ministries in the case of the provision of contributions, but even laws are made. Therefore, problems of conflict of interest must be avoided: if, for example, a senate adviser went to lend his work in a private body, then problems could arise with regard to his activity, once he has returned to work in the Senate, since someone might fear that there is no longer that third party that is required of our staff. It is certainly an interesting problem, which must be tackled seriously, in order to find its application, in the most balanced and effective way possible. Therefore, I am in favour of acceptance provided that the mechanism is reworded, inserting after the words "the Presidency Council" the others: "to take a path face". I am opposed to the G35 agenda, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, which provides for a time limit for the Secretary-General's term of office. We believe that this is a consideration that cannot be entrusted to rigid limits of time: there are very high professionalism that, like similar positions in other constitutional bodies, can be valuable to have for periods much longer than those indicated on the agenda. On the agenda, Mr G36, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, I am against: this is a request to appoint only one Deputy Secretary-General. There is no Deputy Secretary-General at this time, because all those who were previously there have retired. It may be that you choose this solution, but I remember that Vice Secretary, unlike the House, in the Senate is only an assignment and not a qualification. As such, with the appropriate resolution of the College of Quaestors we have already established that in any case for the future - I repeat that at this moment there are no Deputy Secretaries General - will not result in an increase in remuneration, so there is no savings. It may be an organizational solution, however, to propose only one Deputy Secretary, but we prefer to leave this consideration to a future elaboration also in the light of constitutional reform. The G37 agenda is taken up by the G1 agenda (text 2). It can be accepted in substance, since it is a rationalization and improvement of administration. The G38 agenda is similar to that of Senator Comaroli, who was concerned with the application of the IPSAS criterion for the administration of the Senate, with the same problems because, as has been said, here in the Senate the cost centers are essentially one, since the Senate's mission is only one, that is to approve the laws and carry out its other functions, where, moreover, it is extremely difficult to separate them from each other, for example the control activity that the Senate carries out on the work of the Government and the public administration in general with respect to the legislative seat. It is therefore proposed to accept the G38 agenda as a recommendation. The G39 agenda, which calls for the integration and unification of the administrative activity of the Senate and the House, is welcomed. In part, we already do, and of course we are working with successive meetings to have the amalgamation of some offices and a unitary management, with single contracts and everything unified where possible. Of course, it is a collaboration that needs to be implemented by both branches of Parliament and it is not always easy. We have always been extremely helpful, perhaps even more so than the other branch of Parliament. The agenda of the G40, Senator Bertorotta and other senators, is accepted if a small change is made, in the sense of removing the words "even in order to avoid distraction of these sums in favour of other destinations" and not because it is not intended to apply them, but because it is a matter of respecting the law: the distraction of funds is also a crime, and we would miss it! So the assertive part of the device that commits the College of Quaestors to employ the sums in question congruent with the regulatory destination is enough, part that we fully share, so much so that we welcome it. The G41 agenda, by Senator Petrocelli and other senators, calls for the activation of training internships. Once in the Senate training courses were held, then they were suspended because they represented a cost. We believe that we accept this agenda as a recommendation, in the context of financial compatibility, because, as I think it is extremely right, the law recently called for the internship to be always paid and, of course, the Senate could not escape this discipline. This involves a cost, but I believe that the Senate cannot escape a very useful experience for the formation of young people and that we must certainly be open to this function as well. Therefore, it is accepted as a recommendation. The G42 agenda, by Senator Petrocelli and others, is accepted as a recommendation. This is the request to strengthen the Senate structure in Brussels. "Structure" is a big word, because at this moment it indicates only one person, and calls for the strengthening of this structure because it is extremely important to have contact with the European institutions. Of course, we welcome the agenda as a recommendation in the context of its economic sustainability. Of course, the need to have a strong link and a link with the central offices of the Union is important and can be studied to save somewhere else and have some extra resources for Brussels. Senator Comaroli's G43 agenda is accepted. The use of the CONSIP plant is already being implemented and we are therefore very happy to welcome it. The G44 agenda was adopted as a recommendation, with a request for reformulation. It calls for the rationalization of the events scheduled in the various Senate halls. I would remind you that even today the events taking place in the Senate are relevant to the Senate's activities, because they are generally required by the Groups or by the Presidency, and of course these are the criteria. I remember that the outsiders or even the interiors of the Senate, which, however, do not have this endorsement of relevance from the Groups or the Presidency, have to pay a sum of some importance to have these halls. Therefore we will not limit these events, because they represent an entrance to the Senate (even if it is small), without prejudice to the fact that it is not enough to pay to come and carry out any activity in a Senate room. That is why we would like to remove from the device the words "only those strictly" which are provided for. The text we would welcome would therefore be as follows: "Invites (...) to consider the desirability of carrying out a rationalization of the events scheduled to be relevant to the institutional purposes of the Senate." Perhaps we could also accept the word "strictly" and we could be wider, but we prefer to be literal and not to give up a few tens of thousands of euros that we collect thanks to events taking place in the Senate, provided that they are compatible with the prestige of this institution. I am also opposed to the G45 agenda, because the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors are bodies which are in effect comparable to the Council of Ministers or to a regional, provincial or municipal Council, of which, of course, the deliberations are known, but there are no minutes and, if they were to exist, they would not be published for obvious reasons. The G46 agenda, signed by Senator Petrocelli and others, is accepted. It calls for the uniform management of the Parliamentary Library Centre between the two branches of Parliament. On the G47 agenda, I am calling for a withdrawal because there is a competition that is taking place (the procedures have already been initiated) precisely to ensure what is required here, that is to say, to make possible the televised resumption of the work taking place in the various classrooms where the different bodies meet, so that they can be transmitted, where this is compatible with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, to broadcast the ordinary work of the Commission on television would require an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which is not the subject of this debate. The agenda for G48, Senator Comaroli, was adopted. It asks to consider the use of free software, which is already done in some realities (not in all). More generally, we are fully of the idea that we must do what is most convenient for the Senate and, in many cases, it is more convenient to use free software. That is what we are doing, and we will certainly do so in the future, even following this agenda. With regard to the agenda G49, signed by Senator Petrocelli and others, we propose the following rewording of the device: "Invite, for their respective competences, the Council of President and the College of Quaestors to consider the opportunity to transpose within the Senate law in analogy with the Chamber of Deputies, Article 15 of Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013 and, in particular, to publish on the Senate website the list of consultants and recipients of posts". We must admit that in this the House is ahead of us (it does not happen often) and already does. We must also do so, and we will do so, by analogy with what the House of Deputies has been doing for a very few weeks. The G50 agenda, signed by Senator Petrocelli and others, proposes to set up a section of the website for the implementation of agendas in the internal budget. I believe that it is more normal to carry out this function through normal controls, so we see it every day, the budget is discussed every year and all the groups are represented in the Presidency Council. Therefore, it is more logical not to bureaucratize the reporting. With the agenda G51 the presenters propose to make a convention with some body, be it the City of Rome or private subjects, to establish a car sharing post in the vicinity of the Senate that is also available to senators, but without any pre-emption compared to others. I invite you to withdraw the agenda, otherwise the opinion will be against, because first of all the Senate does not have the total availability of the external spaces - it is more the Municipality of Rome that manages the spaces outside the Senate, including the issue of parking - and, secondly, because car sharing must do it the individual who uses them. We couldn't do that for the senators because it's the individual senator who should leave his credit card to guarantee the company or municipality that makes the cars available. Thirdly, it would activate this service and then leave it in the availability of everyone; it would be very unusual for the Senate to head a car sharing post and manage it as it would probably be used by passers-by and tourists, who rightly need to be able to find satisfaction with their requests as users, but the Senate should not deal with this. On the agenda, Mr G52, we are making a request for reformulation. This is a proposal from Senator Girotto and other senators to take measures to reduce energy consumption in the Senate buildings. We propose a different wording and, instead of planning a plan, we prefer the expression'measures to reduce', because otherwise the plan would require the use of a lot of paper and bureaucratisation. Let us try to take the necessary measures even without having a plan. As the agenda itself acknowledges, a number of things have been done and we intend to move forward with energy saving. On the agenda, G53 I am inviting you to withdraw because it is right not to keep the Senate open when you don't need it: you already do it on Sundays and Saturdays only some buildings are open in the morning, but extending it to all the prefectures seems excessive, not to mention Mondays and days when there is no activity. Parliamentary activity, in the sense of Commissions and House meetings, takes place mainly in a few days, but the activity of the Member of Parliament, study, work and reception in his office must certainly be able to take place on weekdays regardless of whether there is 1 May or 25 April or other mobile holidays, in the sense of non-Sunday. On the G54 agenda, which requests that subscriptions should not be renewed in paper format, we propose that they be accepted as a recommendation. We have already gone in this direction; we can do more and we will do more, but totally abolishing paper seems excessive: there are cases where it is still necessary and still required by some. The G55 agenda calls for an increase in the share of recycled paper. We are for the acceptance with a rewording of the device in this sense: it invites you to assess the opportunity to increase, in compliance with the existing contracts and without increased burdens, the share of recycled paper. The expression "without higher charges" refers to the many printers and photocopiers that have difficulties or even get stuck with the use of recycled paper. Therefore, where possible and this is not a matter for the Senate, recycled paper should be well received. The opinion on the G56 agenda is against: these contributions cannot be reduced. There are, for example, EUR 420,000 resulting from participation in international bodies that do not make discounts: they are quotas established on the basis of national parameters. Then there are, for example, sums that appear in the item """" which concern the warehouse that we have outside the town and which appear as such because it is owned by another public body. So these are not rumors that can be halved from today to tomorrow. Moreover, regarding this warehouse, we have already reduced the expenses a lot. Senator Buemi presented a very well-informed G57 agenda which, in essence, proposes that the autodichia be exceeded. It is a very important problem, probably to be tackled, and the proposal is in some ways desirable, because self-declaration represents for one verse and another a burden, a burden, because the political judgments expressed by bodies of the Senate are subject to a certain skepticism and they also raise objections. However, I do not think that such a broad subject can be dealt with on an agenda. We therefore thank Senator Buemi for having raised the problem that really needs to be examined and deepened, but perhaps more in the context of a constitutional reform than with an agenda presented to the draft budget because we, as the College of Quaestors, do not have the power to go in this direction. I apologize for extending my speaking time, but I wanted to say something about every agenda. [[Applause from the NCD Group, Senators Bottici and De Poli Quaestors and Senator Gaetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u11	Mr President, as far as the opinion is concerned, it is of course in line with the opinion expressed by Senator Commissioner. With regard to the two issues that emerged in the debate, one was a nice note to my colleague, Cappelletti, who this morning reproached me for voting on something that I did not know I voted on, the other concerns a general aspect which I have already proposed in some years and which I propose again. My brief memory does not lead me to remember what will happen to this Senate of the Republic, but whatever should happen, when it should happen, I ask the quaestor senators, specifying better a matter said this morning, to take well into account that, if anything the back office and everything that concerns the services (as I read even on the agendas) will be reduced and merged (always safeguarding the enormous professionalism that distinguishes the senate services and also the Chamber, a field of expertise that can in no case be depotentized), it will be necessary to favor in this context the front office. The Assembly and Commission services must maintain not only quality (as all services) but also quantity. Those who work in committees such as the one I chair or in this House know that at certain times there is a serious need for officials who are not only very competent and therefore have been subjected to the selection that has always been there, but who are also in a certain number. Saving on this is saving on what I said, on the things you can't save on. The buzz I always have is that there is a nice way to eliminate all the costs of democracy, and it is to have only one tyrant. I would ask the President of the Senate in that case to run for me as a tyrant because things would be much worse for everyone else. [[Applause from Senator Commissioner De Poli.]] On the other hand, I prefer - you will allow me churchillianly to say - democracy, which is the worst of all systems, as is well known, except all the others, however. It is useful in these small discussions for these principles to be reaffirmed. Mr President, I entrust them to your hands, which I know perfectly well, in the various circumstances, to be good hands. [[Applause from Senators Quaestors.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u12	Having been accepted, the G1 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The agendas for G19, G20, G22, G23 and G37 are therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u15	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the G20 agenda cannot be absorbed by the G1 agenda (text 2), for a simple reason. I listened well to Mr Malan, and there must have been, perhaps, a mistake in the examination. The G20 agenda deals with senators in office, who have not ceased to hold office, and with the suspension of economic treatment in the blackmail of protective custody, which is an institution other than the withdrawal of the economic treatment of a senator no longer in office, convicted of serious crimes. It is, therefore, a measure which equates senators with the rest of the public service with what happens during precautionary measures. The G20 agenda cannot be absorbed, because the G1 agenda (text 2) refers to senators who have ceased office. In any case, therefore, the G20 agenda must be put to the vote. As far as the G19 agenda is concerned, we also call for it to be put to the vote, because we do not believe it to be absorbed. Ours is simply an exhortation to the Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Compared to the agendas of the G19 and G20 there is a request that they be put to the vote. Do the quaestor senators intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u16	Mr President, it is up to the Presidency to determine absorption. In similar cases, when a problem is already dealt with in one way - in this case the G1 agenda (text 2), in point f), asks to address it in a certain way - it becomes impossible to deal with it in a different way (as in the case of the G19 agenda). Therefore, since the G1 agenda (text 2) has been accepted, it seems to me that the G19 agenda should be considered as absorbed. With regard to the G20 agenda, I have listened to the consideration of Senator Giarrusso: I repeat that in my opinion this too is absorbed, because the majority contains the least; if this agenda were put to the vote, the opinion would be against, because it would even be a sanction in the absence of any kind of condemnation. Protective custody, as we know very well, is dictated by considerations quite different from those of a conviction. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] In any case, we believe that the best way is to address this issue in parallel with the other request, the one that concerns the senators condemned definitively.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u17	Senator Giarrusso, with regard to the agenda G19, in the light of what is on the agenda G1 (text 2), in point f), I believe that it can be considered absorbed. The President's opinion is against the G20 agenda and we shall proceed to the vote. Having been accepted, the G2 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u20	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I have a request on behalf of the Group: can the G1 agenda (text 2) be voted on separately?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u21	The request is late because the G1 agenda (text 2) has already been adopted. I would like to ask the G3 draftsmen whether they intend to accept the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u22	Mr President, we welcome the amendments, however, and reiterate the need, with the instruments that the Quaestors and the Presidency Council will consider most appropriate, to make available to external users as much data as possible on our expenditure, with a greater level of detail in the ongoing action of the Presidency Council. As far as the thirty-day issue is concerned, this was a time-limit that we thought was appropriate, given that those who carry out the tasks in the Presidency Council are not just those, but are divided between other tasks. We felt that that was a reasonable time to be able to deal with the delicateness of a budget, which is, however, a very important moment. Where seven days are considered to be a reasonable time limit, we have no particular objections, so we accept the request for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u23	As the G3 agenda has been adopted (text 2) it will not be put to the vote. In relation to the G4 and G5 agendas, requests for amendment were made. Senator Comaroli, do you welcome them? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the agendas of the G4 (text 2) and G5 (text 2) have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote. Senator Gaetti, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G6 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the G6 agenda (text 2) has been adopted, it will not be put to the vote. Agendas G7 and G8 were accepted as a recommendation. Are the presenters insisting on the vote? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. GAETTI (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G7 and G8 agendas are accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u26	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u27	Senator Gaetti, I would be of the opinion that your request may apply to all agendas to be voted on, since it is not articles, if you agree. GAETTI (M5S). All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of hints. (The request is supported) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the G9 agenda, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G11 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G12 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G13, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G14 agenda. BATTIST. (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BATTIST. (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall withdraw the G14 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G15 agenda? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, and I do not insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, the G15 agenda (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Battista, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G16 agenda? BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr President, and I do not insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, the G16 agenda (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G17 agenda, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G18 agenda, presented by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment G19 is absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u29	What are you asking for, Senator Giarrusso? On absorption? GIARRUSSO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Our proposal is wider than the one we are debating at the Presidency Council: it concerns a greater number of offences and a lower penalty, so we do not believe that it is absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda (text 2). We therefore call for the G19 agenda to be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The decision is a matter for the Presidency, which considers that the G19 agenda is absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u31	If you wish to speak on the same subject, Senator Giarrusso has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u32	CRIMI (M5S). I shall then take the floor in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u33	He could speak in an explanation of vote if the agenda were allowed to vote, but he was declared absorbed in the evaluation phase. I can read point (f) of the agenda G1 (text 2): To conclude, as soon as possible, the examination of the proposal - which the Presidency started on 25 July - concerning the cessation of the provision of life allowance to senators who have ceased their term of office......................................................................................................................................................................... It's in front of me. I read it. I just need to know if we have a contingency or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, you can't talk to me while I'm reading something. Let's try to re-establish some rules. AIROLA (M5S). He said right: re-establish! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] You have asked for the floor on the same subject on which a decision has already been taken. Senator Crimes, you still have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u34	This is about the absorption of this agenda, but for another reason. Unfortunately, on more than one occasion - you should be aware of this - we have seen that, whenever we have come to the point and therefore to vote on something essential, in particular in the conflict of certain phenomena (I am also referring to the anti-corruption law, to say one), there is always a reason to say that we are referring to another decision, which will be resumed later, because in the meantime a decree will come or another decision will be taken by the Presidency Council and who knows when it will come. Whenever we are at this point and we must vote and say whether we are with criminals or the innocent, there is always an excuse not to vote! That is the problem, Mr President, and you should know it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u35	Senator Crimes, this is a decision of the Presidency Council, as you know very well. Since some senators have been Members in the past, the vitality could also affect the previous qualification and contributions paid. There is, therefore, a problem between the House and the Senate that needs to be resolved first. Then it is already in the acts of the Presidency Council... We'll see. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...and then we'll assess in this sense. CRIMI (M5S). We already know that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G20 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u38	BLUNDO (M5S). I would simply like to point out that my vote was not recorded in the vote on the G18 agenda and I am very sorry, because I would have liked to have voted in favour of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u41	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, we have proposed the G20 agenda for a specific reason: to equate our treatment with that of the general public. The suspension of the economic treatment - this is a question - is a general institute of all the public employment, with the exception of the elected in the two Chambers, moreover with the maximum possible guarantee in case of dismissal of the restricted subject in precautionary measures that, if it were to take place, involves the full refund of what is not paid. It is simply a measure of equity, which provides for the suspension of economic treatment for the duration of the precautionary measure. In the event of dismissal, you have the return integrum, with interest, as is usually the case throughout the public service. I repeat that this is a rule of ours, because outside these buildings this situation is not understood. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u42	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G20 agenda, presented by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G21 agenda has been withdrawn. Agendas G22 and G23 are absorbed by the adoption of agenda G1 (text 2). Senator Di Biagio, you have been invited to withdraw the agenda G24. DI BIAGIO (PI). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are the G25 draftsmen insisting on the vote? GAETTI (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the G25 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted, the G26 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G27, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Gaetti, do you insist on voting on the G28 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G28 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. The G29 agenda, which is essentially identical to the G30, G31, G32, G33 and G34 agendas, can be accepted if the proposed reformulation is accepted. Since I don't see Senator Mucchetti, I ask Senator Saggese if she accepts it. SAGGESE (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted, the agendas of the day G29 (text 2), G30 (text 2), G31 (text 2), G32 (text 2), G33 (text 2) and G34 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G35 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G36 presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G37 agenda is taken up by the adoption of the G1 agenda (text 2). Senator Comaroli, do you insist on voting on the G38 agenda? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the presenter does not insist on the vote, the G38 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted, the G39 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Bertorotta, do you accept the proposed rewording on the G40 agenda? BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted, the agenda for the G40 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Gaetti, do you insist on voting on the G41 and G42 agendas? GAETTI (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G41 and G42 agendas are accepted as a recommendation. As the G43 agenda has already been adopted, it will not be put to the vote. The G44 agenda can be accepted as a recommendation, if the proposed rewording is accepted. Senator Comaroli, do you agree? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As she did not insist on the vote, the G44 agenda (text 2) was adopted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G45 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G46 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Gaetti, do you accept the invitation to withdraw from the G47 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, since Senator Commissioner Malan has said that there is a competition going on and that the issue raised by the agenda is in the process of being resolved, we shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted, the G48 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Gaetti, do you accept the proposed rewording on the G49 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). We accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted, the G49 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G50 agenda, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). An invitation to withdraw has been made on the G51 agenda. Senator Gaetti, do you welcome him? GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, given the comments made and the fact that it is not entirely up to us, we withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The G51 agenda is therefore withdrawn. Senator Girotto, do you accept the proposed rewording on the G52 agenda? GIROTTO (M5S). I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted, the agenda for G52 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the invitation to withdraw that has been proposed in relation to the G53 agenda? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti, do you insist on voting on the G54 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G54 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Gaetti, do you accept the proposed rewording for the G55 agenda? GAETTI (M5S). I accept that, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted, the agenda for G55 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G56, presented by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). A proposal for an invitation to withdraw the G57 agenda was submitted. Senator Buemi, do you accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u43	Mr President, I note with regret the call for withdrawal, because, having raised issues of considerable interest to the Senate Assembly's perspective in terms of managing possible future disputes, the fact that it invites the Senate Presidency to consider the opportunity, in synergy with the other branch of Parliament, on what the paths might be, does not seem to me to be particularly important, except for the fact that it does not want to take note that the prospect must be that of overcoming the autodicia of parliamentary assemblies with regard to the economic treatment of staff. I accept the call for withdrawal because it is clear that it is useless to be a 'Pierini', but I want it to remain in the record, Mr President, that this issue remains on the agenda, and I will repeat it in my explanation of vote. You can't pretend nothing and you can't put your head under the sand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u47	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in a debate on the Senate's internal budget is particularly complex, because there are various implications that concern us, our colleagues with previous situations, staff and future situations. This complexity stems from the fact that the budgets of the two chambers are singularly eccentric in relation to the method by which the budgets of public bodies are drawn up, but also because this debate, throughout the year, the Presidency postpones a whole series of initiatives which, in its indispensable judgment, considers extraneous to the legislative or inspection procedure. So my question about the parliamentary autodichia, last spring, was stopped and not published because I was told that it escaped the relationship between Parliament and the Government, and kept to the internal acts of the Senate. I wasn't convinced, actually, since the Renzi Government had decided to turn itself in court in Palazzo della Consulta in favor of the autodichia. In my opinion, it was right to call him to respond publicly, since the Government had decided to oppose the interpretation that I consider most correct, asking for its reasons. But, as I was told, I accepted the situation and made it the subject of an intervention in the internal budget with a specific instrument that was challenging to the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council. On the other hand, I understand that, when my agenda was admissible to the internal budget, the Presidency felt that it would expunge the whole part of which, with textual quotations, demonstrates the irrationality, contradiction and anonymity of the judgments of the so-called domestic judgments. I am told that they are acts covered by secrecy, although I have limited myself to quoting the part in law and I have never entered personal notes or references to the private parts of the judgments. In short, the Presidency does not even offer me the thin privilege of printing the original document, as is always the case when it declares parts of texts which are still published inadmissible. Is there too much fear that these so-called judgments will be made known to the community outside these buildings? It is - let me say this - an act of weakness. If you really believe in the absurdity that the law of the State does not enter the Palace just published in the Official Journal, you should produce these judgments that claim it, in total loneliness since the Constitutional Court also abandoned you with the judgment n. 120 of 2014. Moreover, the publicity of judgments is not a vexation or a whim: to get out of secret sentences was, in the eighteenth century, one of the first acts of the rule of law, in order to solicit the judgment of the public on the work of one of the highest functions of the State. I have produced neither judgments on Scarpellini's rents nor on pensions granted before the pay freeze. I merely explained the reasons for abandoning the autodichia, as was the case with the Schullian agenda approved in July in the debate on the House's budget. But I see that we prefer opacity here in a place where there should be absolute transparency: it is the proof, if ever there was a need, that behind the maintenance of self-dichia there are obscure interests. Colleagues, in conclusion, to challenge the mannaia in order to sever what in recent years has allowed behaviors, favors and attitudes that have not been transparent in public opinion - and this concerns all of us - the idea that there was no assembly of servants of the State and democracy of our country here, but of conspirators or conservatives of privileges that must be removed not because the country is in crisis, but because they are unjust. From this point of view, Mr President, I am truly disappointed that there is no desire to address once and for all the question that the organizational autonomy of the Chamber and Senate Assemblies, necessary to proceed in absolute freedom and to implement the legislative process without conditioning any account, while what is different is to maintain privileges and attitudes of compromise with those that are the treatments that differ in an unacceptable way from all other servants of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u50	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, much has been done - there is no doubt - and let me thank the College of Quaestors, the employees, the staff of the Bureau, the parliamentary assistants and all the officials of the Commission, who help us very much. On the other hand, Mr President, very much - and this is a certainty - we still have to do. There are many detailed proposals on the agenda that we have presented, many of which - and this is a positive note for which I thank the College of Quaestors - have been accepted. The hope is that they will soon become a platform on which to do, to build what will have to be the Senate, an institution that costs much less, also in the light of the constitutional reform that we have recently approved. The concerns of our Group, after an important first phase of cuts, are that there is no real reorganization of the entire shopping facility. That is why it was important to approve our agenda, which was to identify cost centres. In fact, on the basis of that agenda, a real reorganization of all the expenditure in the Senate could have been carried out, from which we believe it is necessary to leave. For someone, in fact, it is easy to propose to intervene on employees, but it is much, much more difficult to do so on the organization, on rationalization, on optimization, on the appropriateness of functions and, above all, on their effectiveness and economicity. This is the appeal we continue to make. You see, Mr President, we do not want to see what is happening to the Parliamentary Budget Office - today, for the first time, we have heard what it is doing - the cost of which seems a little high, as it is around EUR 6 million a year and has at its disposal 40 employees. It seems to us another authority, like those present in our public administration (and of which we all know the effectiveness and importance!). Our intervention is necessary, not only in order not to leave the field to those who try to attract consensus and approval with easy exercises of political propaganda, helping in this way to fuel even more the false argument that every evil of our country would come from politics, especially that of the great Palaces of power, but because it is our responsibility and our duty towards the citizens. The light that must guide us in this work of revision and renewal, to be carried out in the direction of savings, transparency and functionality, must not only be the will to operate a simple spending review, imposed now by the serious economic situation, but the recovery of our political and also moral responsibility, in order to restore to the citizens that confidence in the political institutions of representation that for too long now are suffering from a general crisis of legitimacy. Public administration and local and territorial authorities have long been obliged to comply with the obligation of transparency, which is also determined by Community legislation. It is now the turn of the central institutions: I would like to ask you, Mr President, to begin here, from this authoritative seat, a work of rationalization of public expenditure. Some interventions have already been put in place, but how many are still to be planned? I would like to stress one important point: it is certainly important to reduce public expenditure, which everyone is talking about with so much emphasis, but in the end - I repeat - we must set an example. The objective that we are being asked to pursue the citizens and, before that, our conscience must be precisely in the recovery of that waste of the entire public state machinery. The aim that must guide us is the rationalization and the best possible allocation of resources, thus following a different quantitative scheme, directed in the sense of that optimization and effectiveness that I mentioned before. A logic, this one, that certainly has not been followed by the old technicalist mentality of the linear and indiscriminate cuts that the Government has made: instead of offering a useful service to a better performance of the public administration of the whole country, has created and continues to create only inefficiency, bureaucratic jams and - more important aspect of all - a dysfunction of the public machine, that inevitably affects the services offered - indeed, not offered - to the citizen. I can give a striking example that in the eyes of the public might perhaps be of greater evidence and impact: saving intelligently and in a targeted way could help to overcome, for example, the impasse of the blocking of salaries of civil servants, especially those of the Forces of Order, which, as everyone knows, offer an irreplaceable service to citizenship, which certainly could not benefit from it. The quantitative logic of saving, shifted to a qualitative logic of the modalities and the field of intervention, I repeat, imposes itself as a guideline of our work, which must not save any institution. It must not spare any institution - I repeat - it must not protect the interests and privileges of any class or lobby, it must not create any free zone. So that the Senate can set an example and be a model of intelligent spending review, also in order to correspond to a commitment that you, Mr President, took on the very day of your inauguration, but that also so many political forces - including, first, the North League - took over, with a sense of necessity. The need to reduce expenditure in a rational way, in times of crisis, the need to increase the efficiency of the state machinery in order to offer, as much as possible, an optimal service to our citizens, the need to restore confidence and to regain the consensus of a public opinion that is now too misplaced, not only towards the political class, but also towards all the institutions. The same institutions whose first objective must be the administration of democracy oriented to the common good. With the hope that my words may soon turn into deeds and with the conviction that my opinions will find the most possible consensus, the North League will vote in favour of the Senate's revenue and expenditure statement for the year 2013 and the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2014. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u53	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, compared with last year, when we approved the budget for 2014 at the end of November, because we were at the beginning of the parliamentary term, this year we are taking a step forward, with the alignment of the debate on the budget and the balance sheet. As has already been said in the afternoon sitting, the delay with which we are discussing the budget today is due to our organisation of work. I say this for the work done by the College of Quaestors and Senate officials: we were ready a while ago to discuss the budget. I would like to highlight some aspects of the budget, which have been well mentioned in the accompanying report, but I would like to focus on how much the ordinary part of the budget is the smallest and, in general, the fact that the costs of the Senate in recent years have fallen, on average, as much as or more than those of the public administrations. Operating expenditure has been reduced from EUR 57 million to EUR 49 million, with a decrease of 14% in one year and, as the Quaestors' report has told us, all or almost all the items are decreasing. However, we believe that this debate should be useful for honest reflection among all of us. Before the summer break, we were engaged day and night in the approval of the constitutional reform, which will change the Senate substantially, making it pass, to a second level Assembly, formed by 100 senators not eligible by the citizens. One of the strongest reasons for this reform, on the part of the Government, was precisely the reduction of the costs of politics and the aspiration that the abolition of the Senate elected by citizens will produce a huge savings for the country. Then, for us, the analysis of the Senate budget takes on a particular interest, because it allows us to make an operation of truth towards the citizens. We have been told that the competences of the senators represent 42 million euros, to which are added 36 million euros of a charitable nature and 21 million euros of transfer to the parliamentary groups. In the Senate of the 100, how many reimbursements would there be to regional councillors or mayors? Is it conceivable that it is at least EUR 12 million? (17.58) (Following PETRAGLIA). And what happens to the voice "Parliamentary Groups"? Will the parliamentary groups continue to be there? Will the corresponding item "Transfer to Parliamentary Groups" be reduced by two thirds to just EUR 7 million? So if math is not an opinion, you will have an estimated maximum savings of 80 million euros. This is undoubtedly a very important figure on a budget of EUR 525.5 million. We are talking about 15.2% of savings in case the new senators carry out their mandate at zero cost. Then it will become particularly interesting to read the item "reimbursement expenses to senators." So we are not faced with a zero as we have been told. And it is serious that the government, instead of putting in hand serious and urgent stimuli to the economy, preferred to divert public opinion and block institutional activities for very long weeks, to approve a reform that saves 15%, taking away space from democracy and the democratic power of citizens to choose who represents them. I believe we have a duty to tell the citizens with a loud voice that we have approved a bad constitutional reform just to talk to the people's belly, people who think that politicians are all equal and all ruby. But this is not the subject of today's debate. Of course, the maximum savings of 15% are always valid if the new senators do not get any allowances and if the whole item We are ready to see what will happen in reality. Of course, if we were to have as a point of reference the reality of these days with respect to the provincial elections after a long election campaign, one of the many demagogic campaigns for the abolition of politics, experience tells us that the Provinces have not been abolished and therefore there has been no zeroing. We have listened carefully to a number of speakers from the majority who have explained to us the need, in the name of the spending review or rationalization (but I would like to point out that these are two profoundly different concepts), to unify and reorganize the structures of the two branches of Parliament. A commitment which, among other things, we had already taken last year, even before the proposed constitutional reform of the current Government. But obviously there was preterinction and naivety in politics is not allowed, not even ours. In the debate on costs there was a great ambiguity about what will happen to the structures of the Senate, the workers and the workers. Even today, there have not been any clear signs. We have read, over the past few weeks, statements by the Government that have sometimes announced closure, others the reduction, but I think we will have to say what will happen to all those who work in the Senate, especially what tools we put in place to protect all the staff: that of the Senate, that of the Groups, that of the famous resolution of 1993 and the precarious ones waiting for stabilisation. In short, to all those who make the second institution of the State work on a daily basis, as everyone has said amply. Staff of great professionalism, that we should know how to value better and not represent outside as part of the caste. I would like to remind you that staff have fallen because the turn-over has been blocked and the automatic adjustment of wages has been blocked. It has been recalled that a difficult trade union negotiation is under way for a cut to higher wages. We feel obliged to say that we must use caution and full involvement, to avoid bad external representations, whose only effect is the discredit of all of us, as well as to avoid that in the name of social justice cuts are made even on the lowest wages. We support the proposal to propose solutions to give contractual and economic certainty to parliamentary collaborators as well. In these years, we have witnessed the fall in the credibility of our highest institutions, considered as irreformable places, places of waste and privileges, in the name of the principle "they are all equal." The presentation of the Senate budget could therefore be an opportunity and an opportunity for transparency and clarity towards citizens. We all share the need to rationalise the senate's expenses, to continue on the path of important choices such as cutting senators' skills and vitality. We believe that we will have to give serious thought to reducing our allowances, but not because we only work two and a half days a week here. I appeal to all of us: let us leave this easy populism to the Net and some ministers. We must be in tune with the country and the situation of the country and we must learn ourselves to know how to tell our work, which is not only about the House and the Commission, but also about public comparisons, direct meetings with the citizens and with the territories we represent. The Quaestors worked together with the Offices - and we thank them - to ensure a real and transparent reporting of all expenditure relating to the mandate allowance. Absolute transparency must remain a primary commitment for us and for all public administrations to the citizens, who have the right to know how public funds are being used up to the last cent. But this sometimes does not even seem to interest anymore, because, in a climate of growing anti-politics and populism, a climate that the politics of recent months has built representing the institutions themselves as an unproductive expenditure, the approval of the Senate budget is not news. Too bad, because it would have been the right opportunity to explain to the country that the democratic institutions are playing their part seriously for the consolidation of the accounts, to explain that the salaries of the senators have been reduced, as the vitality and privileges have been cut, to explain that the activity of the institutions and the political activity have real costs, because democracy is an investment for the future of the country and not a cost item of the budget. Explaining this would have been serious, responsible and European; but on this too our country is in full countertrend. However, on the basis of these considerations, the Left, Ecology and Freedom and the entire Mixed Group will vote in favour of the Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u56	COLUCCI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Malan for the comprehensive reply he has just given on behalf of the Quaestors. I confirm, on behalf of my Group, the vote in favour of the budget presented by Senators Quaestors on behalf of the Presidency Council. I would also like to draw the attention of the Quaestors and members of the Senate Presidency to the considerations that I highlighted in my speech this morning, particularly as regards the prospects that the Senate will have to face for the new functions that it will be called upon to carry out in the near future, with reference to the reform already under consideration by the two branches of Parliament. I would also like to stress the attention which must be paid to the decision that the Bureaus of the Chamber and the Senate are preparing to approve on the legitimacy, even constitutional, of the economic treatment of the employees of the two Chambers, to which the Commissioner Malan also referred. I therefore confirm the NCD Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u59	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement will abstain from voting on this 2014 budget, just as it did in the past year and exactly as Mr Bottici did in the College of Quaestors. We will do so because we do not want to be your accomplices in yet another mockery at the detriment of Italian citizens. We will do so for very trivial reasons of consistency, well aware that the majority of you are slightly unaware of this term. In our opinion, this budget continues the mystification of the reality begun with the 2013 forecast budget, when, through a mere accounting artifice, they were moved between the lots of tour expenditure and revenue chapters that before then, in all previous budgets, had always been allocated in different places of the budget. This shift, which would appear to be a merely formal issue, was actually essential to allow the 2013 budget to achieve the spending savings targets set out in the G100 agenda approved at the Senate in 2011. That shift in budget chapters, in a nutshell, was made for the sole purpose of showing a decrease in expenditure of EUR 20 million and EUR 300,000 that was actually not there. Even with the 2014 budget, the game of the three cards continues and the contributions to the Senate staff's pension fund and the contributions to the solidarity fund of the senators continue to be included among the round matches. If these items had been left where they have always been until 2012, the result of this budget would have been very, very different. In fact, we would have had a total expenditure of more than EUR 561 million, rather than the EUR 541 million declared. Incidentally, let us remember what is the cost of the functioning of the elected of this Senate: 78 million euros out of 561. So, you know, when we did the reforms, who said there were savings by abolishing the Senate lied to the citizens. We remember what the real numbers are. And, therefore, this year too, the savings targets that the Senate itself had set for the G100 agenda would not have been achieved. But even if we compare the total expenditure with that of the previous year, the figures in the 2014 forecast balance sheet are real, it is immediately apparent that the expenditure savings in this budget amount to just EUR 500 000, that is, only 0.09% less than in 2013, which means just under one per thousand. It seems to me that we have made a very considerable saving. Another unique element of this forecast balance is the bizarre movement of reserve funds compared to the previous year. In fact, despite the fact that the forecast budget is substantially equal to the total amount of expenditure compared to the previous year, the reserve funds have more than doubled and, in fact, go from EUR 1.460,000 to EUR 3.850,000. As you well know, under Article 7 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure of Administration and Accounting, reserve funds are entered in the budget to meet unforeseen expenses. Basically, with the disproportionate increase in reserve funds you have made another accounting escapade because on the one hand (i.e. in the report approved by the Presidency Council) the virtue and sobriety of the Senate administration are affirmed, which would have succeeded in reducing the appropriations for expenditure chapters, and on the other hand the increase in reserve funds allows you to build up that safety buffer to be drawn from in order to restore the expenditure appropriations only apparently reduced. In essence, the increase in these funds has allowed us to say that the expenditure chapters have been reduced, but in reality this is not the case because the sums have been moved into the reserve funds ready to be used if necessary. Finally, one last aspect, which we feel is a duty to stigmatize, is the systematic production of considerable operating surpluses. As you all know, the surplus for the year is due to lower expenditure or higher revenue than anticipated, as well as to the cancellation of residual liabilities from previous years. The surplus for the financial year shall be determined with the approval of the statement and, in accordance with Article 29 (5) of the Rules of Administration and Accounting, shall be entered as revenue from the budget for the next financial year. So far there would be nothing strange and the exercise surplus would be the natural consequence of the financial nature of the forecast budget. However, the singularity of the Senate's forecast budgets is that each year, between the budget forecasts and the final figures of the financial statements, significant operating surpluses are formed, certainly not as important as those of the House, which are very relevant. The Accounting Offices should be granted the credit of having reduced the amount of operating surplus in recent years. Their amount is still considerable and it is enough to think that that of the 2013 Report amounts to well 17,942,000 euros. These substantial operating surpluses are an indication of a significant and incomprehensible deviation between the amount of expenditure forecast and the amount of expenditure at balance and are the clear manifestation of the fact that, in reality, there are further significant margins for the reduction of expenditure in the budget and, therefore, of the budget that the Senate receives from the State. Perhaps we could have worked to really reduce these costs if we really wanted to. The custom of estimating expenditure considerably higher than actual expenditure, despite the fact that historical data now allow more and more accurate forecasts, results in the political hypocrisy of being able to assert the sobriety and efficiency of the administration. Therefore, in the light of all the above reasons, since the 5 Star Movement does not intend to be your accomplice in yet another mockery against the citizens, we cannot but abstain from this vote. At other times we would probably have made this explanation of vote with greater indignation. Now the indignation is in our hands, but we will also give it back to you because after seeing how you raped the Constitution - it was just the end of July, the beginning of August, as you remember - our indignation must also be repaired because you don't deserve that either. You may be proud to have also lost the dignity needed to receive our indignation. Au revoir. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u62	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year we are examining the Senate's internal budget after voting on the constitutional reform that redesigns the functions of the current Upper House in the context of non-equal bicameralism. It is obvious that the ongoing reform does not impact on the 2014 accounts or the 2013 accounts, but the path taken by the Presidency Council is that of a general reduction in costs that can have useful repercussions even if, as we hope, the constitutional reform should come into force. The first to face the sacrifice were the senators who, at the center of an unprecedented media campaign that saw the Senate as the cause of all evils, the caste of castes, bravely faced the cuts required by common sense, before public opinion. It should be remembered, however, that the total expenditure incurred for the Senate of the Republic represents only 0.066 percent of the total State expenditure. To get an idea of the magnitudes in the field, the hypothesis of revision of the public expenditure proposed by the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi and estimated at 20 billion euros, represents about 2.5% of the public expenditure. I repeat: 0.066 compared to 2.5 percent. For absurdity, by completely abolishing this branch of Parliament, it would have cut, precisely, the "zero comma" of our country's budget without this having a significant impact on the public accounts. Just to clarify to all Italians that the chapters where to cut are others, because elsewhere there is the "ciccia" in order to recall an expression used by President Renzi. For example, it suffices to know that the internal budget of the Senate, where representatives of the whole nation sit, is about 541 million euros and that the figure that the State transfers to the Municipality of Rome (which has also benefited of 300 million euros in the management of the commissioner in order to return to the accumulated debt from various administrations) is equal to 540 million euros. The spending review, to which the Senate also participates, must be done above all in the grey area that consists of the more than 130 billion expenditures for the intermediate consumption of the State. This, always, to get an idea of the quantities and numbers in the field. As regards us senators, in particular, I would like to point out that in January 2012 Parliament's allowance had been reduced by EUR 1,300 per month. This cut was extended until the end of 2015. This reduction is the most recent in a series that MEPs have submitted since the 2006 Financial Act which provided for a 10% reduction confirmed, then, by the 2008 Financial Act. The current economic treatment of each senator is about 5,000 euros net per month, little more, little less, depending on the regional and municipal additionals. A figure very far from that "twelveth" of the total gross annual treatment of magistrates with functions of President of Section of the Court of Cassation and assimilated under the law of 1965. Those who still shout at the caste must know that the cost directly attributable to the senators is less than 15% of the entire Senate budget, which also includes the different reimbursement items for the expenses actually incurred. Former senators cost less than 4%. It has to be noted that almost 52% of the costs relate to expenditure on temporary and temporary staff and on staff in quiescence. In fact, it should be remembered that former employees of this administration receive their pension directly from the Senate. The reduction in costs for the staff of the role is, roughly, compensated by the increase for that of the pensioners of the Senate. On these figures, as well as on those of the House of Deputies, it will be necessary for the Presidency Councils to begin a further responsible reflection, thus continuing this virtuous path of which I said at the beginning. First of all, we could combine a series of Services that no longer make any sense to constitute exact duplications. For example, the two libraries, but also the two study services and the two budget services, should be combined, while preserving their autonomy over the parliamentary budgetary office, whose necessity we have not yet understood (even if desired by the European Community), also taking into account the additional costs to be borne by the Chambers. But also several other administrative services of common interest that can be managed jointly, with clear economies for both administrations, should be considered. Then, with the advice of the public pension institutions - with which, if I recall correctly, it had been argued in the past - we must proceed to rationalize both the vitality of the parliamentarians, and the treatment of the quiescence of the staff of the Chambers. The margins to make further savings to us seem, therefore, that there are, without leaving anyone behind, without distorting acquired rights, but simply optimizing the model of organization of this and the other House, as would be done in one company. We are lucky enough to sit in a company that offers a fundamental service for the country, that of representative democracy. It is perhaps the highest and most important service. This service has a cost, as in all democracies. Reading the Senate budget and the actions taken convince that the Senate is a glass house. The action taken to reduce expenditure and to restore to the State part of the sums already allocated to the Senate budget - well highlighted by the quaestors senators - shows, in our opinion, that the College of Quaestors, the Presidency Council, starting with President Grasso, have given incontrovertible signals of the will not to be and not to appear like a caste. To conclude, I would like to express a heartfelt, and not redundant, thanks to the staff of the Senate and, allow me, because it is never reminded, to the staff who work with dedication in the parliamentary groups. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group on the 2014 budget and the 2013 statement, appreciating the efforts of rationalization of the Services and accounts of the Senate so far completed, in the hope of further optimization interventions that - we are certain - will be addressed starting from the next forecast budget. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u65	DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, fellow senators, the final budget for the year 2013 and the forecast budget for the year 2014 at our examination highlight the appreciable achievement, both in nominal and real terms, of the objectives contained in the agenda G100, approved on 3 August 2011 by the Senate Assembly, during the discussion of the Senate's internal budget for the financial year 2011. On that agenda, strongly wanted and supported in the last legislature by the Democratic Party Group, the Senate committed itself, in line with what is already planned for the other institutions and administrations of the State, to start a process of spending internal review and rationalization of the Services, with the aim of reducing the total expenditure by -1.5 percent, -3.5% and -6 percent respectively in 2012, 2013 and 2014, with reference to the values of 2010. Following a rigorous and virtuous path of rationalization and containment of expenditure, to which all interested parties contributed, and which covered all the chapters and items of expenditure of the Senate's internal budget, those objectives, as said, have been substantially achieved today. It should be stressed that a significant contribution has been made in this operation to the overall reduction of Senate expenditure on the operating expenditure side and on the expenditure side for senators, in particular through the abolition of vitality and the adoption of a pro rata pension system. In comparison with central government, the containment of the senate's total expenditure is essentially in line. However, this figure is significantly affected by the expenditure on staff who have ceased to be employed and by the cost of life, net of which the Senate aggregate would be much better. The annual balance sheet for 2013 and the budget for 2014 give numerical evidence to this path, thus confirming a permanent reduction of internal expenditure also for the years to come. On the merits, the documents before us show, with regard to the final budget for 2013, a total effective expenditure of 525 million euros, lower than the estimated allocation of 28.5 million euros. On the revenue side, the 2013 balance shows actual revenue of 534 million euros compared with 554 million euros of revenue estimated; therefore the 2013 surplus amounted to 17,942 million euros. The contribution to spending economies is recorded in all macro aggregates. I do not repeat what I have mentioned here about the main voices contributing to these reductions, as it has already been reflected in the welcome speech by Senator Commissioner De Poli and taken up further by other colleagues during the general discussion. Moving on to the budget for 2014, the forecast of expenditure was set, net of the savings to be paid to the Senate budget and before transfers to the Pension Fund of staff accrued and not carried out, in 541 million euros. Compared to 2010, the 2014 budget shows a reduction in total expenditure of 9%; about €53.5 million less than in 2010. Again, I do not go into the details already mentioned. On the management of the expenses related to 2014, therefore, the burden is to equal, if not improve the performance recorded at final level in 2013 and the achievement of adequate savings of expenditure that finally certify the trend of permanent reduction of the expenditure. The preliminary balance sheet data show a general improvement in expenditure performance at first brief analysis, on which, however, the weight of the processing of staff in the service is heavy, which is growing more sharply (+4.08 per cent) than the decrease in the cost of staff in service (-3.25 per cent). It is precisely on this point, as well as on the growth of spending on former senators, that in the coming months an in-depth review of the causes and trends should be carried out in order to identify possible corrective actions. With regard to expenditure on services and supplies, a reduction of 2.47 per cent compared to 2013 is expected for 2014; given that all expenditure items contribute, with the exception of the item "Studies, research and information" which is expected to increase by 6.26 per cent. Capital expenditure is expected to remain unchanged in 2014 compared to forecast in 2013. Given the positive results achieved in these last three exercises, we are today facing new challenges, perhaps more ambitious and with a long-term, at least legislative, breath. Much of the work that could be done on the basis of the G100 agenda has been achieved; the trend of reducing and stabilising expenditure is also known for the coming years. We may find ourselves satisfied, but precisely from these results the Democratic Party believes that it must start again in order to improve and align the senate's expenses with those of other state administrations. In essence, it is a matter of resuming and relaunching, with greater determination and with new content, the spirit and purpose of the aforementioned agenda, giving the Senate, but not only to it new goals of efficiency and innovation. At the end of the simplest phase of the so-called "linear cuts" to internal spending, we believe that several fronts are still open to work on to improve the process of reviewing the expenditure itself. In this context, as emerged during the general discussion, we could work in synergy with the Chamber of Deputies, in the direction of a new and different way of providing services of an identical nature, today provided in a separate way by the two Chambers. Some initiatives in this regard have already been taken, and have been mentioned several times today. But on the subject of the unification of Chamber and Senate services much can still be done, thus obtaining greater efficiency and quality in the provision of the services themselves and smaller spending centers. I think, for example, that it would be useful in the first instance to unify the management of computer services, to create a unique library centre in Parliament. Today's agendas have gone exactly in this direction and, among other things, the Chamber and Senate libraries are contiguous, and above all unify and strengthen some central services for both rooms. I am not long in the timely identification of the next synergies, in the awareness that today's debate has fully illustrated this will, giving it to the timely work of this administration. The complex of treatment for senators will also deserve particular attention with regard to the ancillary part; supplementary health care; the use of services for the conduct of political activity; the figure of the parliamentary collaborator; issues already addressed on today's agendas that require, however, the right balance between the drive to innovation and the Europeanisation of political functions, the correct assessment of national peculiarities, the necessary will to maintain financial balances. Another important issue of future commitment will be to make the mechanism of the pro rata contribution system more transparent and coherent for the senators in office, while at the same time examining the future balance of the pension and internal contribution system, thus recognising the responsibility not to leave such a delicate and complex issue pending, in view of the constitutional changes already approved at first reading by this branch of Parliament. The necessary measures to revise and rationalise the treatment of senators and former senators must be linked to other measures relating to operating costs. As far as staff are concerned, I can only agree with what my fellow Senator Di Giorgi said today, who recalled, with words certainly shared by everyone, the extraordinary quality, moreover necessary for our work and the height of the task entrusted to us, of the internal staff of the Senate and the need to align salaries with what is planned for the staff of the central government of the State. I believe that the particular attention and sharing of the delicate work undertaken by the Chamber and Senate Bureaus should also be highlighted in this House. We also need to work to further strengthen the transparency mechanisms of the institutions, and we have also talked about this. On this aspect, the Democratic Party of the Senate Group calls for a primary role. We were the first to publish our budget approved by the external audit firm. To make the procedures for conducting tenders and related service assignments as transparent as possible, giving public evidence of the results, can only help to improve the quality of the same and promote a further reduction of costs, without considering that this will meet the need to make transparent, and therefore closer, the financial effects of our daily operations. I conclude because those outlined are only some of the possible interventions to revise and continuously improve the expenditure of the Senate. It is an extremely necessary field of action, taking into account the long ongoing crisis and the numerous efforts and sacrifices that the whole national community is called upon to make, and to which the Senate institution cannot escape, with a view to a substantial and progressive reduction in public expenditure. All the measures described will have to be closely linked to the new and more ambitious spending savings targets to be achieved in each year, in the coming years, in order to allow the progressive reduction of the contribution of resources for the functioning of the Senate to the state budget, without neglecting the opportunity that these efficiencies will have to offer in terms of innovation and overall strengthening for a better functioning. I believe that today's debate has been very constructive and prolific and I welcome it. I would just like to add that, in this climate of full cooperation, I regret some agencies which in these minutes are exploiting a position that this House has taken with full awareness of today's agenda G1, letter f). This Senate, this House has also committed itself to such a delicate and burning issue, as is that of the vitalities for the senators no longer in office and guilty of particularly serious crimes. [[Ironic applause from Senator Giarrusso]] , and I don't think it's fair to transfer a communication of a different sign to the outside world. It is precisely today that we have reaffirmed our common commitment, and we should make joint efforts on it today. I shall then conclude. At the College of Senators Quaestors, also on the basis of the determinations that will assume the Assembly of the Senate, it will be up to the next days and in any case before next year to formulate proposals that illustrate the path and initiatives to continue in the containment of expenses and for the overall reorganization and efficiency of the Senate of the Republic. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u68	DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. Madam President, I would just like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken, even with different opinions, in the debate on the budget, because I believe that everyone has agreed on a path taken by the Quaestors and the Presidency Council to reduce expenditure, but also to improve the paths and services within the Senate of the Republic. On the other hand, a thank you goes to the President of the 5th Azzollini Commission, with whom we have shared the path of the Senate's internal budget in recent days, together with Senators Quarters Bottici and Malan. I would also like to thank in particular the President of the Senate and the Secretary-General for following us and for having done with us in these two years of the legislature this difficult path, which is designed to reduce expenditure and to have attention on the one hand to the citizens and on the other to the senators present. In particular, however, I would like to thank all the staff of the Senate, precisely because in a moment of great difficulty and discussion it is here with us who assists us and works with great professionalism and once again shows that he is up to the task that has been assigned to him. This thanks go to the assistants here in this House, to all the other employees and to our collaborators. [[Applause.]] I believe that this is a very fundamental aspect, because we do not always remember that they too, like each of us, have a family and I believe that we must all respond to this. These are the aspects that I wanted to stress: a clear thanks to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u69	The Presidency agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u72	Mr Azzollini, rapporteur. Madam President, I too would like to join in thanking you and asking you and the Secretary-General to extend them to all the Services and Offices. The senate's professionalism is a force and a deposit for the country and it is right that they be preserved. I would therefore like to express my thanks, which I ask you and the Secretary-General to convey to everyone. A sincere thank you goes to Senators Quaestors. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u73	The Presidency will take charge of this. We proceed to the vote on the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013 (Doc. VIII, No 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u76	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013 (Doc. VIII, No 3). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We proceed to the vote on the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2014 (Doc. VIII, No 4). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2014 (Doc. VIII, No 4). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u80	MARINELLO (NCD). Madam President, I would like to inform the Presidency and the House that less than an hour ago it was slaughtered - there is the video and images on the Internet - the French journalist Hervé Gourdel, kidnapped by a jihadist gang in Algeria. This is yet another heinous crime. I believe that we should express the sentiments of our mourning and solidarity for this horrendous crime against the family and all the French people. Beyond the mourning and solidarity, I believe the time has come to open a debate in this country that addresses the issue of our country's alliances and strategies on the Middle East scenario as well as on the scenario of alliances that are currently facing the issue, with their presence on the ground. Not only that, I believe that the time has come to deal in a very serious and decisive way with the issue of how the civil, free and democratic world must, as a whole, place itself in relation to these phenomena that sometimes appear to us distant but distant are not because, through the systems that globalization makes available, they enter into our homes and against those phenomena recorded and which are also denoted in Italy, as witnessed in this Chamber by the Minister of the Interior, which in my opinion can bring elements not of such violence or scope, but of certain concern within national borders. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u81	The Presidency supports the condolences and recalls that both in this House and in the House, on the occasion of the information given by the Minister of the Interior, this Government and this Parliament have expressed themselves clearly in order to use every instrument of policy and cooperation against all forms of terrorism.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u82	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409. The rapporteur, Senator Sacconi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u83	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite or precisely because of my not short parliamentary experience largely focused on issues related to the active life of the person, I am going to carry out the report on the draft law-law on labour market reform with the sincere emotion of those who wish to conclude with this act a difficult and contradictory path, initiated in 1997 with the first law recommended by Marco Biagi and better known as Treu law. At that time, in parallel with similar initiatives in many European countries called for by the Commission itself, a process of renewal of labour markets in the sense of combining the needs for organizational flexibility of enterprises with those of better security of people with respect to continuous employment and labour income in the context of the globalisation of economies. This first law had the merit of opening a road, breaking some ideological prejudices such as that of the monopoly of public placement, to allow also in Italy in particular the employment of temporary work even if, in my opinion, the transfer of the centers for employment from the State to the Provinces did not prove a happy solution and has made it difficult up to now any of their actual revaluations. A few years later, in 2001, Marco Biagi coordinated with me the drafting of a White Paper describing the fragility of an opaque and uninclusive labour market, in which, on the one hand, companies had persistently, even in times of tumultuous growth, contained the level of the workforce and its own size while, on the other, people were left to themselves in the search for employment with strong gender, age and territory gaps. As a result, he indicated the solution, in one way, to the regulatory flexibility - in and out of the individual employment relationship and, on the other hand, to a strong public orientation action, to a smooth match between demand and supply of work and investment in skills. If a figure prevailing in the lesson of Marco Biagi I allow myself to identify, this is found in the import of the concept of employability or the continuous self-sufficiency of the person in the labour market. This implies the transition from rigid and passive safeguards to a kind of post-modern Article 18, consisting of the worker's right to access the knowledge and skills which he freely, although usefully advised, considers to correspond to his vocations and employment opportunities. It is no coincidence that the so-called "Biagi law" is conceived in parallel with a demanding reform of the educational system which first introduced the possibility of dual options as integrating theoretical learning with practical knowledge. The redesign of apprenticeship contracts was carried out as a result, just as it was thought to break the self-referentiality of many educational institutions through the introduction in universities and high schools of placement offices, i.e. guidance and placement up to co-design with enterprises of specific learning paths. At that time, moreover, the process of networking of public and private services accompanying work began, even if the obstacles caused by the institutional fragmentation of competences - Provinces and Regions - and by the resistance to making information systems interoperable soon arose. In the following years, governments supported by opposing sides are in fact in continuity with the laws Treu and Biagi, continuing to operate for a more efficient organization of the labour market and active policies, always objectively hindered by institutional fragmentation and to guarantee a plurality of channels of access starting from a just emphasis on the apprenticeship contract. The latter, however, is never paid an equally effective willingness of the regions, where more, if not less, to simplify the procedures and controls of the training activity. At the same time, it is particularly important that employers and trade union representatives should be able to dialogue in the company dimension, to share objectives, an additional wage related to them, and supplementary social protection services. It is not by chance that a rule of law gives force to business or territorial bargaining, allowing it also to adapt disciplines laid down by national laws or contracts. This path is interrupted by Law No 92 of 28 June 2012 which tightens the way of entering the labour market by raising the supervisory criteria to the norm, without giving certainty, at the same time, of the ways of resolving employment relationships, put to the discretion of a justice that, as the President of the Council Renzi has observed, proves unpredictable in the outcomes and strongly differentiated in the territories. In the time of the great crisis the forms of income support are extraordinarily strengthened but do not improve the active policies accompanying a job although certainly not all regions are equal. Fortunately, private, but also private-social services are growing, while public centres remain segmented and inactive. Not to mention training, which appears to be largely spoiled by the prevalence of supply over demand, as regional and Community funding feeds the survival of operators instead of leading to virtuous competitive paths in satisfying the needs of workers. At this point we could say that the present bill of delegation wants to take advantage of the experience of these years, of the intuitions and actions that have proved positive, like the asymmetries and contradictions that have been produced, to bring to completion now what has not been defined with the necessary balance. I am still referring to that necessary combination of flexibility and security, between the legitimate adaptability of the company to competitive pressures and technological changes on the one hand and the public duty never to leave only those seeking a job, encouraging it to be an active part on the basis of the offer of persistent opportunities, on the other. For this reason, the bill is ambitious and operates on a broad spectrum that includes the universalization of so-called social shock absorbers on an insurance basis, a virtual infrastructure of the labour market through the tools of the network in addition to the physical one, with the National Agency, the affirmation of the centrality of the person through the electronic file and its free choice of services that the public then supports as a result, the affirmation of the importance of the family and motherhood, with the consequent needs of reconciliation between times of life, the reform of the entire Workers' Statute, except the part dedicated to trade union rights, the simplification of the management of working relationships, the ulterior rationalization of the activities of inspection. Other than only Article 18, on which once again so much attention focuses! With this act we can renew everything and it would be paradoxical if that were all, except Article 18. The Commission has carried out intensive work within the limits of delegation which we are required to examine only in terms of principles and implementation criteria which have therefore prevented the evaluation of detailed measures. I feel it is my duty now to renew to the House the call for a sincere and useful confrontation, insofar as it is part of the logic of delegation. We must remind ourselves that we will have the opportunity to appreciate the delegated decrees both for the merit profile and for that of the necessary financial coverage, when - I hope immediately after the delegation law - they will be handed over to Parliament. In this context, even the agendas of the day are not underestimated, because where accepted by the Government, they contribute to committing the ways of exercising the decree delegated. I would like to say to the House that in the Commission, moreover, the adoption of significant opposition amendments, as well as of the majority, has enabled me, at least in this way, to share the objectives, with the exception of the reform of the Workers' Statute. Yet, everything is held. Understandably, many have long called for the contextuality of the actions dedicated to organising a more inclusive and protective labour market in the so-called "transitional phases," with the adaptation of the rules inherent in the individual employment relationship. Now this possibility is before us. The universalization of social shock absorbers is here also declined in favour of collaborations, without disanchoring it from the responsibility of the people. The logic remains in fact insurance, as it is right that it is, and the subsidies are conditioned to the acceptance of the job opportunities or training offered. Of course, the choice of a guaranteed income is not made here, all borne by the state budget and without regard to the responsibility of the person. It would, in my view, be a trap of poverty while the first response to poverty must remain work. In other places, the Government has committed itself to further strengthening the instruments for preventing and combating poverty that must act in terms of last resort and proximity. The instruments identified in the Commission's work to make the labour market efficient and transparent have become very important. The unfortunate segmentation on a regional and provincial basis of competences should finally be resolved through the establishment of the national agency for the employment and integration of information systems, the basis of which - I repeat - should be an electronic file including all the elements related to the active life of the person, from educational and training paths, to working ones, transitions and related subsidies, up to the current social security account. It is also of great importance that the national system for the use of job vacancies should be encouraged. It has been made even more explicit the choice of collaboration-competitiveness between public and private services in the management of active policies which can be urged by the choice to provide the unemployed, through a relocation contract, with a voucher that can be spent at an institution he himself freely identified and then paid only as a result. In this regard, I must call on the Government to put in place promptly the regulation to which it refers the rule of law that has already introduced the institution of the relocation contract. It is no coincidence that, in this area of active policies, the Commission has wished to point out the objective of enhancing bilateral experience, i.e. those forms of collaboration between representatives of workers and entrepreneurs who can help to broaden the still largely insufficient distribution of labour services, especially in the Mezzogiorno and in those segments of the labour market most exposed to diseases, such as agriculture and tourism. With the delegation referred to in Article 3, the aim is to simplify procedures and obligations relating to the management of working relationships and to the whole complex subject of hygiene and safety at work, with an objective declared by the Government's proposal already of half of the acts. In this context, there are the simplest ways of preventing so-called "white resignations" to ensure the certainty of termination of the relationship when the worker has behavior in this concluding sense. The Commission has here reaffirmed an important principle: that of banning public administrations from requesting data which they already have. The same sanctioning regime should be simplified with particular regard to formal infringements and premium institutions. In the light of the objectives already set, it is explained at this point the desire, referred to in the new Article 4, to produce a single simplified text of the types of contract and the content of the working relations with close adherence to Community law so that we can approach a European labour market and do not produce displacement effects of our country vis-à-vis other territories of the Union. The Government is delegated to analyse all existing contractual forms, assessing their consistency with the quality of employment and production requirements. I remember that the contractual models are essentially the fixed-term model, the permanent model, the modular models, the apprenticeship, the accessory work and the co-ordinated and continuous collaborations or projects. We are therefore talking about five or six contractual models and then there are millions of employment contracts because in each of them you can find a specific distinctive element. It is good to remember and remind us that co-ordinated and continuous collaborations or projects are born and develop in the second half of the nineties on the basis of a simple tax circular and Biagi, at the explicit request of a part of the union, will only give you rules and safeguards becoming, paradoxically, according to certain unformed imaginary, the founding father. And the thing, I have to tell you, he was suffering. The initial advantage of the lower contribution is also failing, so at this point it is worth reflecting in particular on the continuing usefulness of the same collaborations. Even contractual arrangements can in any way contribute - as has happened, let us remember - to the emergence of irregular work. Not by chance, the Government has asked for a delegation aimed at spreading more adjustable accessory work with good prepaid, so as to intercept that large amount of work pieces that still remain submerged. The so-called vouchers have been significantly used in agriculture, but very little outside of agriculture; almost exclusively in the northern part of the country, but, under the Gothic line, they fade and disappear quickly. So let us worry not about those who are there, but about the many who are not there. The heart of the single text inevitably remains the reform of the contract indefinitely, because I believe we all want it as much as it is used, not only - let us be careful - as a percentage of a low number of people employed, as it is today, but above all in absolute values. Employers invoke simple and certain rules at the time of maximum uncertainty. The statute was instead drawn up in 1970 - as I recall - on the basis of acts and contracts of the 1950s and 1960s, in the time when it was assumed that there was irreversible and substantially continuous development, according to production methods tending to be serial. This requirement of companies in terms of simplicity and certainty must now be reconciled with the worker's right, in the event of unjustified but non-discriminatory dismissal (in which case it would be null and void, i.e. there would be no such thing), to the protection represented by appropriate sanctions. So the right is to the sanction, not the sanction or, better, a specific sanction; a sanction is needed. Already today, in our system, this protection (the sanction) is variously defined and modulated. The law is universal, the sanction is modulated and modulated. The criterion of increasing protection corresponds, in the contract for an indefinite period, to an idea of homogeneous protection, but which increases over time to give value to the seniority of service. I insist: we are talking about the permanent contract, which, unlike the placement contracts (as typically the apprenticeship), is not segmentable in two phases, one with less protection and salary, because it is characterized by gradual entry into the complete productive capacity and the working environment (a phase characterized by learning, integration, integration), the other, the second phase, to regime. Not here. As I said, in the permanent contract the employment relationship has a continuous characteristic, and in it it finds and can only take over the seniority of service. The delegation criteria relating then to Articles 4 and 13 of the Workers' Statute are more generally intended to make the regulation of tasks and control technologies more consistent with the new production processes. It is not so much a question of encouraging so-called demise but rather of allowing flexible tasks in relation to new ways of working that require more flexible, more autonomous, more responsible behaviour. Similarly, the necessary protection of the dignity of the worker from remote control must not become a source of inhibition for the better use of new technologies, including the opportunities for teleworking so far neglected. In any case, the new single text will have to be consistent with the existing legislation that recognizes to the entrepreneur and to the representations of the workers, as we have already mentioned, the ability - within the principles of the order - to adapt the regulation to the concrete circumstances of time, place and commodityology of the enterprise, through agreements signed in the terms of which to the inter-confederal agreements. Simplicity, certainty and subsidiarity can therefore be considered the methodological lines of drafting the organic text referred to in Article 4. Finally - last but not least - the delegation content referred to in Article 5, because they intend to support the family and motherhood through the extension of social benefits to all mothers, the introduction of tax credit for women working with children, the flexibility of working hours, the solidarity gift of part of the working period, the dissemination of care services and parental leave. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the Commissioners and Commissioners. As I said, with the exception of Article 4, cooperation has been intense and intensive, because it has taken place in a short time, but it has allowed, in my opinion, to improve the text by collecting for a large part of the amendments of the opposition, which has helped to better define the ways in which to organize, above all, the virtual dimension of the labour market, which is, however, the one through which we plan to bring together labour supply and demand easily. I must thank the Offices and their patience and I must confirm their absolute professionalism and dedication, and I do not do so rhetorically. I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Bellanova, undersecretary for the job, who has participated very closely in all the work and has contributed intelligently to it. My final wish is that this House's time for examination may be as timely as possible and so consistent with the extraordinary time we live in. A time in which extraordinarily new problems can legitimately correspond to a renewal of traditional political cultures and the pragmatic encounter between reformisms that also descend from different matrixes. Let an old socialist like me say that. To put it with Tony Blair: "Values don't change." But times do! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Values don't [[Applause from the NCD, PD, PI and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u84	I declare that two questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u85	Madam President, distinguished colleagues, this draft delegation law has been cynically drafted with precise propaganda techniques. For months, only this word in English was spoken: jobs act. That's all! Nothing concrete beyond the slogan But it was pronounced and repeated with emphasis and clamor: Venghino, ladies and gentlemen, to discover the marvels of this marvelous remedy of the magicians of the East! It is the ancient method of charlatans only much, much more sophisticated. It has cleverly created curiosity and expectation by speculating on the crisis: the more tragic the economic data were, the more the hope that this foreign word really contained solutions. Now we start to find out what the government was aiming at: to touch workers' protections, to make precariousness become the rule and not the exception, as the European Union recommends. It will be a whole generation to pay, because a precarious person cannot get married, does not have children, does not buy a house and also delays the maintenance of the car. He'll pay for it and the whole economy. An unacceptable disparity will be created. Businesses will have an interest in firing young people before the guarantees mature. Those who enter the labour market today will be a serial worker b. This President Renzi knows, because in his father's company all were fixed-term workers except him, his son Matthew. Now the owner of that company is investigated for fraudulent bankruptcy and the son would like to entrust the Italians with their future, without releasing receipt. But those who live in pain are more easily abandoned to healers and cartomants and are bound to mirage, especially if they lack precise contours. Many, therefore, continue to believe the slogans of the Government, in fact the bitterer the elixir phony of Dr. Renzi the more one believes that the medicine is good. There will be time to discuss these lies. Today we are here to decide whether the draft law delegates at work respects the Constitution or is an abuse of the Government, because this also happens. Article 76 of the Constitution: The exercise of the legislative function may not be delegated to the Government except with the determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. In other words, the government can draw up a project, but it must do so in accordance with precise and stringent instructions from Parliament. On the other hand, the government demands a blank delegation on issues that are like nerves discovered, very sensitive to social cohesion in times of crisis, wasting time and the work of the Commissions that had already been active on several issues. It demands a text with principles and criteria of vague and indeterminate legislative delegation. The same objective areas of delegation remain vague in fact leading to a violation of Article 76 of the Constitution. I do not know if you understand me: the government has given Parliament the orders it wants to receive. In fact, it does worse. On the most sensitive issues requires a vague and general mandate, then free everyone. And when the government presents the final text, the Commission will not even be able to assess whether it respected the indications because they were generic. Parliament's legislative responsibility is being emptied, but it is being masked by a misplaced parliamentary passage. As if to say that we will also be responsible for these wretched rules. But responsible for what, if the government delegated it itself? If the hypocritical amendment to Article 18 of the Staff Regulations was also made on its own without even naming it? What do you mean, sign here! What does it say? Sign and shut up. Responsible for that, if the majority votes on command, if only in the secret vote you can have a free vote in conscience? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other voices outside the choir have risen in the last few months and are now taking effect. To stop hypocrisy is a common duty. Let the sky multiply these voices, and in the end also the press write it: the little prince is naked. The government had promised less abuse of the decree-laws. Now he's asking directly for white paper. Delegate on work, delegation on public administration, justice and anti-corruption: this way he can transcribe in law the beautiful copy of the Nazarene covenant. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And if you don't please me - they're threatening the government - come back and get the decree-law. We do not accept blackmail; so that it does not happen that the Constitutional Court has years to remove rules because of excessive delegation; laws that in the meantime will have tragic effects, how tragic it would be the vacuum that would be created later, as we have seen for the drug law. No white delegation on social shock absorbers, on labour services and active policies, in the discipline of employment relationships, contractual forms and inspection activity, on the protection of care, life and work needs. "Then we go to the vote!" "Sibila acido Matteo Renzi." Because this below wants: to escape from the responsibilities of its failure, but showing that the fault is supposedly of braking in its party. Renzi, he's right about one thing and we want to help him. Yes, Italy needs a horse cure and immediately; it must respect European recommendations and make real reforms. So, now, let us bring the draft law to the House for the real abolition of the Provinces: we have already done everything in the Commission and we are all in agreement; we can do it in less than a week. We approve a real law against corruption that eats tens of billions a year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We put a limit on parliamentary mandates and really renew the political class; perhaps without recycling it in the gold seats of the participants. Let's restore the crime of fake in the budget, because - I say it for the citizens, as I am sure that many others have already explained it to President Renzi - the fake in the budget is the practice that allows companies to set up black funds to pay the bribes to politicians and parties. Here too we have proposals ready. We abolish IRAP for small and very small companies, as we had proposed, with correct financial cover, since last year. Then, to return to the subject of today, we introduce the income of citizenship: it was also in the program of Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So far, the concrete proposals, with regular financial cover, have been presented by us. But it doesn't matter, let's do it and it will see Matteo Renzi that then, reviewing the labour market will be much, much simpler and more linear. First security, then flexibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These are reforms that the European Union asks us: they are ahead, what are we waiting for? The government is, instead, all intent to precariousize the work with the increasing protections: the fig leaf to hide the abolition of the protections. The dogma of flexibility, in the absence of security in income policies, has already produced its poisonous fruits from the Treu package. The work is not created by removing the protections. It's a waiter's policy, moving cutlery, but they don't put anything on the plate. Investments in large unnecessary works must be withdrawn and client waste of the participating companies reduced. The resources released must be directed towards supporting the highly-absorbed sectors of labour, where many artisan enterprises operate, first of all those of [[Green economy. (Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u86	Senator, please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u87	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'll finish. Matteo Renzi: green economy has just said so too. But he doesn't. His interest is to cause a break and go to the vote before the truth about his littleness emerges. That's why we can't shut up. This law delegates violates Articles 1, 3, 24, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 76, 117 and 119 of the Republican Constitution. I refer you to the detailed technical explanation of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, the text of which appears in the Minutes of the sitting, and I invite you to vote conscientiously in favour of this question. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u88	He asked Senator Uras to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u89	Madam President, government gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, although it necessarily adheres to aspects of constitutional legitimacy, mainly related to the nature and substance of the delegation that this measure makes to the Government, the question of the preliminary ruling QP2 is certainly strongly conditioned by the fact that the Constitutional Charter considers, promotes, supports, defends work as fundamental value for the Constitution of the Republic and workers as men and women engaged in the full exercise of citizenship, made of rights and consequent duties, that is, the constituent subjects of the political pact of civil coexistence in Italian society of patriotic solidarity. It is Article 4 of the Constitution, which makes the right to work a duty to an activity or function that contributes to the material and spiritual progress of society. Work is not a matter that can be treated like any other subject on which the power to legislate of Parliament is exercised and on which this power can be delegated to the Government, precisely because our Republic and the Constitutional Charter expressing its values look to work with the peculiarity that I previously observed. We present the question for a preliminary ruling QP2 because it is clear to us that there are serious violations of the Constitution in the proposed text, the exercise of systematic abuse in the power to legislate by the Government, not only in this case and not only on the part of this Government: the systematic use of the decree of urgency without there being clearly the prerequisites and requirements, the attribution by Parliament, on the basis of a purely political reasoning of part, of a power to legislate without drawing up those boundaries which are instead mandatory. That is why we are intervening: precisely to underline the seriousness of the violation of Article 76 of the Constitution, which provides that Parliament may delegate the Government, but a delegation law that lacks strict guiding principles and criteria is a law that allows the Government an exercise that cannot be by the delegated Parliament itself. It seems to me that in this case the contents of this measure have in themselves a clear vagueness and generality, which concerns significant matches, such as the one of contrasting to the condition of the citizen's need, or the one relating to social shock absorbers, but even more the quality of the relationship that must be established between the State and the citizen when it comes to guaranteeing a fundamental right that is protected by Part I of the Constitution in several articles, such as the one on work, which, as we have seen, is a right that promotes and carries out a duty as well. The draft law contains more delegations that appear generic, indeterminate, do not meet the criteria of Article 76 of the Constitution, because there are insufficient indications of content to limit the discretion of the delegated legislator. In this way, the Commission is given overly broad discretion as regards detailed instrumentation and how to build institutions, without prejudice to the political direction to be chosen and the complete and consistent identification of objectives. Parliament is basically deprived of its decision by virtue of the popular mandate it has received. It is also worth noting - we do this because in these hours we have approved the bill of account and settlement of the state budget - that the principles of Article 81 of the Constitution are also violated, when it is said that this provision does not contain in itself elements that vary, and in a sensitive way, the condition of public finance. It is said to be a manifest falsehood. It would suffice to mention the single agency, which is a different additional instrument, amending the existing one, which certainly produces costs. It would suffice to think of the protection regime that wants to cancel the system of social shock absorbers: either it is too expensive or it is not effective. That's the data. Every word of the measure under consideration conceals a profound violation of the Constitution. That is why we are presenting a preliminary question, and not because we do not want to discuss the issues of work and take on a real responsibility to reform positively. Reform means involving workers, citizens, as the Constitution says, not relegating them to a market entity, to a commodity, as has been done for decades on the part of those responsible for it. And before that, those who have the responsibility spoke. Decades of policies have ruined this country and, today, again and even more, the same questions, the same false solutions, are posed. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Paglini.]] For this reason, President, for all the contents of this measure, we will wage a battle: an absolute and meaningful battle in terms of merit; a challenging battle in Parliament and in the country; a real battle that wants to be civilization, a battle that calls for participation and involves the men and women of this country in the reconstruction, rebirth of Italy, its economy and its society. We don't want anyone to feel excluded. We do not want to see workers in the Cassa Integrazione, who put their hope of being put back into productive employment in the drawer. We do not want to relegate the work to a grant of this or that undertaking. We want the work to be the protagonist of the reconstruction of the country and, to be so, it is from the work that the new enterprise must be born, the truly innovative one, the one that requires quality, ability to invention and absolute commitment. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u90	She asked Senator De Petris to intervene to illustrate a suspensive issue. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u91	Madam President, I am speaking not only to highlight the issues of obvious and absolute violation of Article 76 of the Constitution, on which we have just explained our preliminary ruling, but also to add a further element that I would like to point out to this House. It, in our view, represents an irregularity in the procedure which has been followed in the Commission's work and which has led to a distortion of the examination of the measure in the Commission itself. In fact, Madam President, it has deliberately failed to examine all the amendments on which the 5th The Commission had expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. In fact, as is stated in the report of the sitting of the Commission, it is the Presidency itself that announces that these amendments would not be put to the vote, as they did in fact. This is a deviation from the Rules of Procedure, which requires that there is always an examination and a corresponding outcome on all amendments. It is not possible in any way...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u92	Excuse me, Senator, I ask the President of the Commission to pay attention to what is being said, also because there is an answer. Please, Senator De Petris, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u93	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I said, Madam President, that this is a deviation from the Rules of Procedure, which requires that there should always be an examination and a corresponding outcome on all the amendments, as you know when you are chairing this House. On the other hand, it is in no way possible to know what the outcome of these amendments is, because they have not been adopted, rejected, withdrawn or fallen. You don't know what happened to them. From the Senate website only the expression appears: 5th Permanent Commission, opinion against (ex Article 81 of the Constitution). This effect is all the more incomprehensible if we think that in this House the opposite opinion obviously involves improcability, as we experience almost every day. However, in this case, as is well known, it is the Rules of Procedure that expressly provide for it, and it is, however, without prejudice to the possibility of voting on them if the request is supported by 15 senators, as is often the case. A consequence of this could be limited only to those connected, but in this case it is always the Regulation that expressly provides that the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission determines its inadmissibility. In the course of the Commission's examination, however, the right of all senators, and in particular those present, to see all the amendments tabled examined and put to the vote was not respected, thus leading to a clear and serious irregularity in the procedure in the referee. It is therefore clear that there is a breach of the procedures laid down in the constitutional and regulatory rules, because the error is expressly denounced in the Commission's report, because it is precisely the Commission that prepares the text which is the subject of the House's subsequent examination. In the light of all this, we believe it is necessary to remedy this irregularity through a referral back to the Commission, even if only formal and limited to those amendments, which allow us to examine in substance all the amendments which have not been voted on unjustifiedly. We therefore call for that part to be returned to the Commission. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u94	President Sacconi, I assume you are able to respond to Senator De Petris' remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u95	Forgive me, but I consider this to be quite atypical. Why should I respond to these remarks at this time?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u96	Because the senator made a procedural exception to developments in opinions in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We weren't in the Commission, but I guess that's not true.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u97	As you know, all the acts of this Senate are transparent and codified.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u98	That's right. I wanted confirmation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u99	Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. The Budgetary Commission examined the amendments on the basis of opinions from the rapporteur and the Government in that forum and forwarded them to the Commission on the substance, which it took note of. As a result, the Commission acted on the merits. Of course, with regard to the Commission that I am chairing, everything is in place and everything can be verified, but it is no less so with regard to the Budget Commission, which is doing the work of expressing opinions on a daily basis and is desperately trying to defend our balance of public finances. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Clearly, in the sense that you voted and the procedure was formally correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u102	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, there is no question of the regularity of the procedures for examining the amendments in the budget committee. The fact is that, even though the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, as is the case regularly in this House, one may ask not to vote on these amendments, but one cannot pretend that they do not exist and that they have not been there. It is therefore the right of every senator, even if he has been given an opinion against it, to ask for the vote. In this case, they have not been rejected or rendered impossible, but the Commission's opinion has only been put to the vote. This, as you know, is not a regular procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for further clarification. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u105	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make one more question, and I want to do so now in order to prevent me from being told that it was presented at an inappropriate stage. I refer to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for the opinion of the CNEL. Without prejudice to the fact that the CNEL is still existing and that, according to its own name which refers to the economy and to work, it seems to me that intervention on the economic, social and labour policies is a matter of its own competence, I do not see why in this particular case it cannot, indeed should, be requested a specific opinion from the CNEL on this type of bill. I therefore call for the opinion of the National Economic and Labour Council to be requested and for the deadlines to be set. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments.]] Why shouldn't I talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ichino, as you know, the House is presided over by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u108	ICHINO (SPI). I was just asking for clarification from my colleagues. Madam President, I rise on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling to remark very briefly that if it were contrary to the Constitution to establish a form of insurance against truly universal unemployment, which overcomes serious differences in treatment between categories of workers; if it were contrary to the Constitution to bring the Cassa Integrazione Guani back to its essential and original function, namely that of supporting the income of workers in temporary business crises, preventing it from being used to hide the situations of real unemployment, by requiring that the occupational crises of business workers be tackled by putting workers in the freezer for years and years, as has unfortunately been the way in which we have dealt with the employment crises in the past decades; if it were really contrary to the Constitution to overcome a form of protection of the economic and professional safety of workers built entirely on the cast of their employment relationship, but in fact applied to less than half of the workers themselves, and replace it with a form of protection that builds the economic and professional safety of workers by guaranteeing them the effective possibility of finding a new job when they lose the old, and by doing this by offering workers the best of the services in the labour market that they offer themselves today, i......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are convinced, however, that all this is much more in line with those constitutional principles which you have called for. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is more in line with Article 3 on equality, Article 4 on the right to work. It is much more in line with these principles to delegate to the Government the enactment of this new system of protection and the adoption of this new technique of protection of workers, than to continue with the regime that we have so far followed. On the other hand, precisely the organicity and clarity of this change that we want to give to our system is such that the criticism of insufficient precision of the delegation appears entirely unfounded. For these reasons, Civic Choice, but I also believe that the majority of this House will reject with great conviction the prejudices we are discussing here. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Maran.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u111	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to remind the House and also point out to the Government that when it comes to preconstitutional questions about measures which are part of the so-called 100-day government programme, which has become a thousand-day government programme, we have never made discounts. We have raised fundamental questions of constitutionality, which we felt could not be disregarded either from the point of view of the violation of Article 77, while we are now talking about Article 76 and part of Article 77, and from the point of view of Article 81, that is, the coverage. I have listened very carefully to the content, together with merit (as regards the 5 Star Movement) and legitimacy and merit together (as regards the Left Ecology and Freedom), of the preconstitutional questions put to this House today. By giving a technical and political assessment together, I believe that there is no constitutional or political opportunity to not discuss this measure in this House. I believe that this measure has been largely modified in the Commission in relation to the original primeval delegation by the Government, through a collaboration which we believe is not yet sufficient among the parliamentary groups. We have put demands that have not yet been met; we have a vision that our political history and our vision of the labour market bear witness to and that we have paid very high political prices in the past years during the governments we have seen, including through the reform of the labour market, according to our vision. All that has been said, we believe that it is impossible not to tackle the debate in Parliament; all of us, colleagues, who, as parliamentary groups, have so many times invoked and evoked the democratic debate when this was strangled by excessive use of decree-laws. We have asked many times to confront ourselves in this House, but - since we believe that comparison is essential, especially on this measure, on which we want to bring our demands and to which we want the improvements that we consider essential to be transposed - this cannot be the subject of a preliminary question that cuts the debate, the democratic confrontation and 700 amendments that have been democratically and legitimately proposed by all of us. All this and considering that there is no such thing - and I am referring to the name of the parliamentary group which I represent - as the technical and substantive prerequisites for the presentation of a preliminary question of constitutionality, I repeat the vote against the Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u112	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u113	Madam President, we are asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u114	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Catalfo and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. I shall put this question to the vote and refer it back to the Commission by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the request to acquire the formal opinion of CNEL, made by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the presidency of the Senate is concerned, the intervention of the President of the Commission, Senator Sacconi, and therefore the report of the Commission's proceedings, referred to by Senator De Petris, is inaccurate, assuming that the amendments have not been put to the vote because they have implicitly been withdrawn. That is what the Presidency has said. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u115	I communicate that the requested number of senators has received the request - pursuant to Article 78 (3) of the Regulation - for remission to the Shareholders' Meeting of the favourable opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency of Decree-Law No 109 of 1 August 2014 concerning the extension of international missions. Therefore, the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting is supplemented by the Assembly's resolution on that opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u116	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-317.ana.u117	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 25 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
