ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u3	Senator Scilipoti, I see you very active these days! You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, with an appeal lodged on 6 November 2013, the Ordinary Court of Monza-Sezione criminale has raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State vis-à-vis the Senate of the Republic in relation to the resolution by which the Assembly, in its anti-meridian session of 21 December 2012, affirmed that the statements made by Raffaele Iannuzzi, senator at the time of the facts, against the magistrate Luca Tescaroli - for whom the criminal proceedings n. 502/12 RG DIB - n. 10628/07 NR - concern opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall within the guarantee of insindicability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution (Doc. IV-b, No 29/XVI leg.). The appeal was declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by order of 12 March 2014, No 53 filed at the Registry on 21 March and notified to the Senate on 11 April 2014. At its meeting on 29 April 2014, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities unanimously gave a favourable opinion on the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution. One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u11	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to remind you that we share the unanimous choice of the Junta, because we are faced with the classic case of a senator who, in years of parliamentary activity, has led with passion and determination, of course with opinions that are not always acceptable, a political and parliamentary battle with regard to the relationship between politics and justice. The themes for which he was passionate and engaged were not private affairs or business or business issues that touched him: it was the civil passion for the events of the mafia and anti-mafia and for all the situations that they have gone through in the past and continue to cross the debate that concerns public opinion, in a dialectic with the procures, with the world of justice, with the world of culture and journalism. So it can be said in these positions that a senator or a Member who speaks does not do so in this capacity only on the basis that he has spoken in Parliament, perhaps in the context of an act of inspection union, rather than a minute later in a meeting, a debate or a round table, is obviously a coercion. In conclusion, we note that the statements made are not absolutely offensive or denigratory towards anyone, because they would be denigratory even the statements of a magistrate or a judge when they hypothesize against each of us the most terrible crimes, on the basis of which we can be indicted and put back to trial, because if then the accusations prove unfounded, that magistrate can always say that he has done his duty: "I have accused you of being guilty of absolutely serious crimes, but, if in the course of the trial this fails, I have done my duty, there are other degrees of judgment." Like the magistrate, when he does his duty and makes heavy judgments against a Member of Parliament, he cannot rightly be prosecuted, I believe that even a Member of Parliament, in the course of his work, dealing with matters of public interest and providing judgments - questionable and biased, provided they are - cannot but be covered by parliamentary immunity. Above all, the Constitutional Court must understand that this is what Parliament's work is, and that is why I agree with the constitution in court in relation to this forcing of inadmissibility. We speak in Parliament and the Member of Parliament has as his only force and protection not the arrest warrants, investigations or the power to imprison and condemn people, but only the power to be spokesperson for those who cannot make dangerous and risky civil battles, not having such protection. For this reason, I think it is absolutely appropriate to confirm the decision of the Junta. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the vote. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by the Senator Council, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.) Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the conflict of attribution raised by the Ordinary Court of Monza-Sezione criminale. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to a lawyer from the Free Forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1413, already approved by the House of Deputies. The speakers, Senators Mirabelli and Esposito Stefano, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to inform the House that, for agreements between the groups, we are going to proceed today with the report and the general discussion, while the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government and the votes will be postponed until next Tuesday, according to the timetable already established.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u16	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, apart from the majority agreements, we are quite embarrassed that we have a general debate on a very important text, but in fact we do not know what the budget Commission is going to give birth to and what we are really going to have to discuss. It is quite embarrassing - I think also for the rapporteurs and for the Government itself - because things could get worse or better in this measure if certain amendments were accepted and if certain prospects, which are within this draft law, were modified under the possible financial cover. It is therefore quite embarrassing to address this debate on our part, and I think it is also embarrassing for the rapporteur. I ask the government if it really wants to face this commitment with this impasse.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u17	Senator Crosio, this unfortunately happens every time we face the examination of a bill of conversion of a decree-law. I will never tire of repeating this, and in this sense I believe that I am interpreting the discomfort of the members of the 5th Commission and their President who are facing any kind of measure before the House: there must be sessions, during a day, entirely devoted to the work of the Commissions and then to the House, because the Commissions, having to work in the intervals and in the dead spaces of the House's work, do not have that continuity in order to be able to express the same opinions in time. I now call the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today addresses the issue of housing emergency in a serious and incisive way: the rules contained in it propose solutions to a demand for housing that has grown in recent years in the face of the economic crisis. The impoverishment that has marked many families has resulted in a often dramatic difficulty in finding sustainable housing solutions and maintaining the same residence. Against this the public intervention based on the models of the past, the realization of large popular neighborhoods, crushed on public housing, no longer works. The resources guaranteed by the Gescal funds have failed and housing needs have also changed. This measure intervenes on a very serious emergency, but it tries to do so, in our opinion, not in an emerging logic, but by trying to launch innovative policies that can significantly improve the situation in the coming years. In summary, the figure of the measures can be summarized as follows: different policies are introduced to increase the availability of rented houses at agreed rent; resources are invested to allow the municipalities and the ACP to put at the disposal of those who need the thousands of public apartments empty because they are not habitable; the use of the funds support rents and for the blameless morosity also to meet social housing applications with opportunities to be realized in the public and in the private. Moreover, with the reduction of the dry coupon to 10% for the fees agreed, the owners are encouraged to rent their apartments at affordable rates and the necessary conveniences are created to involve private and private resources in the construction of social housing. Alongside this, it is possible to sell to tenants of housing owned by IACP and Municipalities, dedicating the proceeds to the realization of other housing opportunities, and tax incentives are provided for ransom contracts. In addition, the decree confirms the will of this majority to guarantee more resources to feed the rent support fund, which only two years ago had been exhausted (today it is 100 million for 2014 and 100 million for 2015), and to feed and make permanent the fund for the blameless morosity, wanted by this Parliament and so important at a time when crisis and unemployment affect families and incomes. All this has found in the Commissions gathered 8th and 13th attention and sharing and the positive work (also done by appointing more than 34 associations, trade unions and professional organizations) that has been put to fruition, and from which we have also received positive opinions on how the decree has been modified, it has allowed to approve many amendments that, thanks to the contribution of all, have improved in a positive way the text without changing its spirit and principles. For this I would like to thank all the Commissioners for their willingness to make a comparison, which I believe has produced positive results. The decree, which today we convert into law, provides, in addition to measures to cope with the emergency housing, interventions aimed at supporting the commitment of the City of Milan for the realization of Expo 2015. In addition, Article 12 deals with the regulatory vacuum that risks waiting for the measure, to be issued within nine months, in order to define the categories of work that require qualification in relation to the technological content of their activity. Finally, Article 14 deals with financial cover. Moving on to the articles, Article 1 increases the national rent support fund, doubling its budget, from €50 million to €100 million for each of the years 2014 and 2015. In addition, the fund set up by Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, in support of the blameless morosity for the years between 2014 and 2020, is increased by EUR 225 million. Here, in addition to the substantial funding, we want to underline the choice, particularly significant in times of crisis, to make the fund permanent for the blameless morosity. Article 2 allows municipalities and regions to use the funds referred to in the previous article, as well as to give additional contributions to conductors in difficulty, to find, in different forms, through agencies and institutes or in agreement with building cooperatives, accommodations at fees agreed for those who risk losing their homes. Article 3 establishes a fund for the granting of interest subsidies for the purchase of property owned by autonomous housing establishments which will ensure that interest on loans is reduced by at least one percentage point and which will require the Government, subject to agreement with the State-Regions Conference, to define the procedures for alienation. On this article the work in the Commission has led to a significant improvement in the rule, allowing the sale only to resident tenants, requiring that all sales proceeds be used exclusively to create new housing opportunities at social charges and, above all, extending the rule also to housing owned by municipalities and local authorities. Article 4 regulates a plan for the recovery and rationalization of buildings and housing owned by the ACP States to be agreed with the State-Regions Conference. To enable recovery, a fund of 500 million is set up for 2014. On this, too, the Commission's work has enabled the adoption of better rules which also extend to the municipalities the possibility of access to the fund to intervene on social housing of their own property and which provide for faster times for the effective operation of the interventions, given the urgency of putting as soon as possible the tens of thousands of public-owned apartments scattered over all the national territory, and currently unused, at the disposal of the many who need. Article 5 stipulates, when the conditions are created to increase the offer of rented houses to meet the housing offer, the firm will to combat the phenomenon of abusive occupations. In this sense, for the future, those who will illegally occupy an apartment will not be able to obtain the connections of water and gas and will not be recognized by the municipality the residence in that accommodation. To this end, the Commission considered it appropriate to provide for the exclusion for five years from the ranking for those who are employed in social housing by removing it from the availability of those who would have been entitled to it. In Article 6, in order to encourage the construction of social housing or the renovation of buildings for this purpose, it is stipulated that the income derived from the rental of such housing does not contribute to the formation of corporate income for the purposes of income tax to the extent of 40%. Article 7 provides that, for the years 2014 and 2016, the holders of a lease of the social housing in which they reside are entitled to a tax deduction of 900 euros for income up to 15,500 euros and 450 euros up to 40,000 euros. On this the Commission has introduced for access to deductions the constraint that the cost of renting should affect at least 14% of the person concerned's income. Article 8 provides for the possibility for new contracts to rent social housing to allow the tenant, after seven years, to redeem the apartment. The rule provides tax incentives for these contracts. The Commission has reworded the text by clarifying more clearly the need for a consensual relationship between the parties at the time when the possibility of redemption is defined. Article 9 provides to lower the dry coupon for rental contracts agreed between 15 and 10 per cent. It is an important incentive for owners to rent at affordable rates for families who today do not find sustainable housing opportunities and can help to respond to the housing emergency and to put on the market empty housing rentals today. In this respect, the Commission has proposed, in order to increase incentives and benefits, to lower the IMU to 4 per thousand on the agreed contracts, to create additional convenience for those who rent, and to extend, in addition to the municipalities with high voltage housing also to those for which the state of emergency has been declared in the last five years, the possibility of taking advantage of the coupon to 10% on the fees agreed. Article 10 introduces rules aimed at increasing the offer of rented housing without further land consumption but promoting reuse, renovation, reconstruction and change of use of existing buildings. The article contains rules for the development of social housing through conventions that see the protagonists of municipalities and regions and allow to achieve this objective of public interest involving private and private social. Finally, the objective is to implement these actions by applying the rules that impose clear criteria on energy saving, the use of renewable sources and energy efficiency. Article 11 addresses the issue of monitoring the implementation of the measure. Staying on the subject of housing and concluding on this, the Commission has finally introduced a rule that safeguards until 31 December 2015 the effects of the law against the black rents that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. A solution has been found which does not call into question the judgment, but recognizes that those who have benefited from it today cannot suffer the consequences of having applied the law and guarantees them a reasonable time so that they do not have to endure an unjust increase in their living conditions. We would have liked to do the same to see the law that protects investors from the failures of companies that make people lose investment. On this point, it is absolutely necessary to intervene - there is an agenda for this - so that the law is applied, so that insurance and banks are involved, so that companies which have access to these investments and do not operate on trusts are penalised. Article 12, in order to ensure the stability of the public works market, identifies the categories of work which, due to the absolute specificity, closely linked to the relevant technical complexity or to the considerable technological content, require the execution by economic operators with the specific qualification. Finally, Article 13 contains provisions aimed at facilitating the realization of the Expo 2015, in particular to support the efforts of the City of Milan. To sum up, this is a contribution to the financing of the EUR 25 million event and some derogations from the expenditure restrictions introduced. In particular, in addition to confirming the derogations previously allowed, it is possible to use the proceeds of the building concessions and the sanctions provided for in the single text of the building for the maintenance costs of greenery and roads. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today the Commission is bringing to the attention of the House a useful and important measure, the result of the initiative of the Government and the work of all the Commissioners and the contribution of all the groups represented. The approval of this measure will have concrete effects, it will allow better to face the emergency housing in a logic neither contingent, nor emerging, but aimed at guaranteeing Italian citizens a housing future and the possibility of finding solutions more and more adapted to their incomes and needs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u19	The rapporteur, Senator Esposito Stefano, considered the report by Mr Mirabelli to be comprehensive and comprehensive, and informed the Presidency that he would simply speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u20	Mr President, today we are discussing a useful, necessary and important measure, thanks to the text proposed by the Government and also thanks to the fruitful work done by the rapporteurs and members of the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a a measure we felt the need for, because the housing emergency is a very important social problem, which needed to be addressed urgently in order to prevent the situation from even dangerously falling. There is a strong need for order in this sector, which invests the least well-off social groups and which, due to the crisis, has more impoverished families, who do not have the means to deal with housing costs. The conversion into law of this decree represents a useful step, although probably not decisive, to give an answer to these requirements. There are many measures listed by the rapporteur, all of which - I must say - are useful to remedy this problem. The first objective of this decree is to increase the resources available to the national fund for the support of access to rented houses and in favour of the newly established fund for the deadly innocent tenants. Another important measure of the decree-law is to increase the offer of rent-based housing agreed through the promotion of mobility, thus agitating the real estate market thanks to the help of various institutions that offer to the local authorities (Comune, Province and Regions) or with the entities themselves affiliated. These are real estate agencies and cooperatives specifically affiliated with the entities that have the task of facilitating the meeting between the demand expressed by low income households and the offer of housing for rent Calmerato, relying on a series of incentives and financial instruments to support these operators. Another important measure of the measure is to aim for the maintenance and restructuring of public housing, often falling or dilapidated, in order to create new housing. We are very attached, as members of the Environment Commission, to this measure because it will enable us, through conservative restoration, through urban redevelopment and renovation of buildings that are often present in the historic centers of our cities, to undertake an important action to recover the building heritage and urban redevelopment. There are two objectives that can be achieved: this, and then that of avoiding excessive consumption of new soil, of new surfaces to be built up (or even reset it). An alienation plan is also envisaged in favour of tenants of buildings owned by autonomous public housing institutions (formerly the IACP), whose proceeds will rightly be devoted to the restructuring, safety and alignment with the anti-seismic and energy-saving regulations of these houses. It is, therefore, a plan for the recovery of buildings and housing of public housing, with relative energy adaptation, plant and earthquake, of more than 12,000 housing in the national territory. Measures to combat the abusive occupation of housing are also to be welcomed, whereby anyone who illegally occupies a property cannot apply for residence or for connection to public services. Therefore, it is a commendable attempt to restore rules and legality in the complex world of building abuse. Finally, the measure contains, as the rapporteur has said, a series of preferential measures for the realization of the Expo Milano 2015, on which clearly Italy cannot fail. Ultimately, this is a balanced measure, which will certainly be able to give a response (although, probably, not decisive) to a problem that has not been tackled perhaps for years in an appropriate way: the mass of Italian families affected by the housing problem, also due to the economic crisis, has increased in a worrying way, highlighting a social discomfort that a civil nation cannot afford. Facing these needs and recognising Italian families a sacrosanct right, often denied, is a specific duty to which we must all respond, in compliance with certain rules and with objective criteria which must be strictly observed and properly adopted by those who are competent. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u21	Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u22	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done in the Commission, where a great deal of attention has been paid and all the parties have been listened to. Moreover, as the rapporteur points out, I think it is useful to note that this is not an emergency measure, but look, from the perspective of the future, at an important sector of our country, that is, the housing sector. I would like to reflect on the savings made by Italians in recent years. The Italian one has always been a people of great savers; for many years, the Italians have understood the purchase of the house as a safe investment. I would remind you that Article 47 of the Constitution also states that the Republic favours the access of the popular savings to the property of the house, to the direct agricultural property and to the direct and indirect investment stock in the great productive complexes of the Country. In our country the first two points have been implemented, but not the third, for various reasons. I want to point out that the purchase of the house was our true form of savings. I remind everyone that in Italy there was no speculative bubble in the real estate sector, because 80% of the property is of Italian families; this allowed Italy to withstand a financial crisis that in other countries was strong precisely because this part of private property was missing. Today, access to the purchase is in crisis, because there is an international crisis, because loans are no longer granted and because taxation is increasingly vexing an asset that has so far been considered to be a refuge. So I have a concern - we have adopted an agenda in the Commission on this - about international finance. This has never managed to get its hands on our savings because Italians have always done for themselves: international finance has never managed to speculate on the families and the money of our families because Italians have always been good savers. Today, however, my concern is that finance should do what it has not done in so many years. When access to property is prevented, because it is too expensive, it is no longer profitable or becomes practically inaccessible, and it facilitates - as they must be facilitated - the funds that do not deal so much with the housing emergency, but mainly deal with the speculation that can be made on it, it can happen that the savings of the Italians move from a historical investment, such as that in the house, to finance. So those who until now have not had the opportunity to get their hands on the savings of Italians will finally be able to do so. I therefore call on the Government to pay attention to this matter. The first paragraph of Article 47 of the Constitution states that the Republic is to regulate, coordinate and control the exercise of credit: perhaps, at the time, it was necessary to add the reference to finance. Fortunately in our country finance has not had a great impact in speculative bubbles in the various sectors. So, I think we need a verification of a possible international will aimed at directing Italian savers to invest in financial products, remembering that the good home is the good of the Italians, in which we have invested for many years. These, in my opinion, are reflections that we must leave behind, because today too the lack of mobility of the home market means impoverishing those who have had such a chance over the years. It is good that in this measure, on the other hand, everyone has access to the house: that of the house is an important emergency, and therefore it is important that in this measure there is the fund for the support of rents, because we must think of both those who have the possibility, and those who do not have the opportunity to access such an important asset. This measure, taken in full, is directed precisely in this direction. I would like to make two final comments. There is a positive focus on the qualification of enterprises, and a point is finally made on this. Furthermore, Mr President, the measure before us also deals with the subject of the Expo. In this case, too, derogations are provided for. We are about a year after the opening of the Expo, and I would like to make a consideration not only as a senator and entrepreneur, but as a Roman: such an important event for Italy must be supported by the whole country; we must be proud that the Expo will take place in this country. So I appeal to all the senators and to the entire Parliament to support it to the full, not to be divided because the League thinks of it in one way and the latials in another. I believe that this must always be supported when an important event takes place for the country. It is not Lombardy or Milan, President, but it is Italy that will come before the whole world to demonstrate what is worth and how much can be relaunched at such a difficult time. Therefore, we cannot afford to make pitfalls, as on the other hand we can never afford that there is no transparency on such an important event. In fact, this is an event for which our country can really be on the front line to show that things can be done well, you can do it quickly, but you can certainly do it in a clear and transparent way. Let's take Italy this time not to be pointed out as a country that doesn't do things or does it late, or who knows what's underneath, but let's all together make the Expo a flagship, not for Lombardy, not for Milan, but for the whole country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u23	I greet students and teachers of the San Giovanni Bosco Institute in Alexandria, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagnoncelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only make critical comments on the measure we are considering. Many are the critical passages that this decree presents, many are the norms that seem to be oriented towards solutions buffering against a very complex issue that concerns such an important need for our citizens as that of housing. But in this speech I would like to highlight a rule that is in positive contrast to the general inadequacy of the decree's installation: I refer to Article 13 on interventions aimed at facilitating the implementation of the Expo 2015. In a nutshell, the City of Milan is also allowed to use for 2015 the proceeds of the building concessions for the ordinary maintenance costs of greenery, roads and municipal heritage; derogations from the code of public contracts concerning sponsorship contracts and service concessions are allowed; tax concessions for the organizational operations of Expo 2015 are confirmed; and a contribution of 25 million euros is expected in favour of the City of Milan for the costs of realization of the exhibition itself. Well, these interventions want to promote an international event fundamental for the revival of the economy and the image of our country. The measures mentioned above are at the end of a path for the development of a courageous multi-annual project: the Expo 2015 project, which can be defined as ambitious as it is crucial for the restarting of a real growth process. The event that the city of Milan will host from May 2015 can be summarized in some figures: 20 million visitors expected, of which about 30 percent foreign; 24 billion euros represent the estimate of the additional production activated by the single event, for an added value of 10,5 billion euros in the period 2012-2020, and with a benefit on the gross domestic product equal to 0.18 percent; almost 200,000 new jobs estimated between 2012 and 2020 and almost 11,000 new enterprises. In other words, the Expo 2015 was an unprecedented stimulus for the development of the sectors directly involved, the agro-food sector and the tourist-hotel sector, but it also brought a positive shock in the economic sectors linked to those at the center of the exhibition: substantial advantages can be derived from the Expo sectors such as catering, real estate, construction, high-tech and renewable energy. New orders, new investments, new infrastructure, new jobs, new international visibility, new business opportunities: these are the opportunities that a global event like the Expo brings with it. Occasions for the development and the growth not only of the Lombard enterprises, but of the entire national economic fabric. While it is true that the greatest benefits will be enjoyed by the most directly involved market and institutional operators (i.e. those from Lombardy and Northern Italy), it is equally justified to expect substantial positive economic spillovers throughout our peninsula. Moreover, the security of the procurement management system through the careful supervision guaranteed by the Government's sole Commissioner for Expo 2015, Giuseppe Sala, allows us to have a reasonable hope that the resources allocated and to be allocated by this decree will not fall into the mafia plots of organized crime. For all these reasons I greet with satisfaction the norm with which it is decided to continue to contribute to the most complete realization of the Expo 2015. An event that represents the most glowing opportunity of the last decades for the valorization of the Italy system; that represents a flywheel for the revival of the economy of our country; that represents the beginning of that road called economic and social growth that we must all, decisively, start to follow. However (and here I conclude), it remains, in my opinion, incomprehensible how the Government can include an encouraging measure on the Expo in the framework of a measure that seems weak and inadequate to envisage a minimal solution to the home emergency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u26	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u27	Mr President, senators and senators, as the Caritas annual report on poverty and housing emergency tells us, housekeeping is one of the main problems for families in economic difficulty because of the social and employment consequences of the crisis and today even being owners of a small house does not completely eliminate the risk of poverty in the absence of an adequate income. The loss or reduction of hours of work, the setting-up of social security funds or mobility, precarious and poorly paid employment conditions are some of the factors that can lead people and families - up to that time in stable conditions - to no longer have the economic resources needed to maintain a home. Users in compliance with the payment of housing costs are reduced and in case of economic distress the expenses of the house are among the first to be postponed. There are problems with the payment of loans, difficulties in paying rents, risk evictions and difficulties with utilities. Moments of temporary discomfort can also lead, if not managed or accompanied, to situations of emergency housing, as evidenced by the data on evictions for blameless morosity - due to delay or failure to pay the fee - greatly grown in recent years and that today involve also those territories considered in the past less at risk. The gravity of the situation is confirmed by the data on evictions that have recently been diffused: in the first half of 2013 they continue to increase and for almost totality they have as motivation the morosity. 38,869 evictions were issued during that period; of these, 34,756 are for morosity: 90 percent. This is a trend that, without adequate measures of contrast, in a few years risks involving more than half a million families. For families in difficulty, access to social housing appears to be the only possible alternative not to fall into absolute poverty. We can therefore say that the issue of housing is one of the greatest problems for large sections of the population, until it is a real emergency, which asks Parliament to make an overall political choice, integrated with social policies and constant over time, as well as a multiplicity of instruments precisely because the theme is very differentiated. In fact, in addition to the social categories that have always turned to public and social housing and to moderate rent rent to find answers to their housing problem (the unemployed, pensioners, precarious workers and immigrants), today we need to respond to the new forms and needs of living, which are represented by the elderly, university students, young couples, single-income and single-parent families, the separated and the disabled. This measure is therefore important, very important. It has no emerging character; better still, it wants to face the emergency with a structural and innovative vision. First, Senator Pagnoncelli criticized this measure as insufficient, but national public policies have stopped since 1998, the year when the ex-GESCAL withdrawal from the paycheck of employees has ceased and since then there have been no longer constant and reliable transfers of resources to the regions for investment programmes in the public housing sector. Moreover, it is precisely today, in conjunction with the tip of the economic crisis, that we feel the heavy consequences for the continuing lack of a policy on the rental regime, policies that direct public housing resources to increase the housing assets to be allocated to rent to Calmereti canons. It is also these policies of living that we will deal with and we will also have to deal with the reform of Title V, because this is a competing issue, and we will have to assess the level of decision that is most useful to citizens. Today it seems to be the central state the only one able to find the necessary resources, while the Regions unfortunately risk too different policies and therefore to determine different rights for Italian citizens. The measure deals with important issues and I will focus on two major chapters, the first of which concerns support for rent. The Ministry estimates that there are 2.5 million rented families who pay more than 40 percent of their income. The measure under consideration therefore refinances the national fund for the support to the access to rented houses (set out in recent years, already refinanced by the last Government for 50 million and increased today to 100 million for each of the next two years) and the fund for the deadly innocent tenants, established by the vote of this Parliament and born with a budget of 40 million that today is increased by an additional 226 million. It is then identified in the agreed rent the instrument on which to invest to encourage the provision of private houses for the agreed lease and rewarding with the reduction from 15 to 10 percent of the dry coupon on these agreed contracts. I would now like to address a request to the Deputy Minister here: if today we decide that the agreed lease is the instrument we want to use to encourage the rental of private housing, it is necessary to revise, as also provided for in Law No 431 of 1998 on rentals, of the national convention, with the convocation of the parties, in order to have an updated document to the new social and market situations. We then address both the problem of the abusive occupation of real estate, trying to give a signal of fairness and legality in defence of the correct citizens, and, in an amending phase, the issue of rents in black and the consequences of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court. It is also expected that the rent fund will be able to finance public rental agencies, which I believe is useful and important. It is a problem that cannot be solved with a convention with private agencies, because the purpose of the public agencies is, among other things, to be third guarantor between owner and tenant for the lacked payments of the rent, eventual damages and the liberation of the house at the end of the contract, all elements of strong concern that today hinder the provision of private houses for the rent (and it is well known the high number of bad houses, which at this time represent a problem). The second point is that of the increase of the available housing, public and non-public, and the recovery and efficiency of the public heritage. With regard to the quality of the accommodation, there is often a gradual decline in the sanitary conditions of the housing and the level of maintenance of the buildings. I would like to mention here, as a sad example, the serious accidents, up to the loss of human lives, due to carbon monoxide poisoning due to the economic impossibility of maintenance of the plants or even the detachment from the heating systems and the use of stoves and lucky plants, especially in those areas characterized by low temperatures and rigid winters. It is no longer sustainable, then, the financing of maintenance with part of the housing fees of popular housing as provided for in some regions. We therefore have funding of EUR 400 million and EUR 68 million over three years for the restoration of public assets and the restoration of empty housing that needs renovation and energy efficiency to be reallocated. A further important investment of 100 million euros and the recovery of unused resources of real estate funds for social housing, intended instead to expand the offer of social housing, both public and private property, is the qualifying choice of this measure. The use of resources is accompanied by rules of urban simplification (and we know how much bureaucratic simplification in economic terms is worth today), all with the aim of increasing social housing by restoring the existing, demolishing and rebuilding the existing without further land consumption, excluding historic centers and excluding the recovery of possible building abuse. It is therefore a measure which, in addition to responding to the housing emergency, is an opportunity for the economy and the building sector. I remember the latest data produced by ANCE: since 2008, the start of the crisis, to date, 446,000 jobs are lost and 11,177 companies have closed by bankruptcy. More resources and more answers than with the work of the rapporteurs, whom I would like to thank for listening and availability here, and the Commission we would also like to see used and implemented quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, apart from the excellent work done by the 8th and 13th Commissions, the result will not be the best. Even Lavoisier said that "everything is transformed," but the guano does not become risotto! Here we are, as always, faced with the consistency of the government. As always, we must vote for a decree that has fallen from the top to the bottom of the democratic rules that our Charter lays down and guarantees. On the one hand, I also understand this, all committed as it is to trying to show that the limitation of democracy and the parliamentary political dialogue that is perpetuating reflects a manifest uselessness of the Upper House, but I still remain disconcerted and shocked by the brazenness with which democracy is condemned to death whenever the occasion arises. In fact, the times that his representatives have pontificated about the need to limit the government decree of urgency in order to promote the parliamentary initiative are no longer counted, but as we promised, we study and deepen the themes proposed regardless of who brings them to Parliament, also because if we had to just focus on what this House produces we would have a lot of free time. At each decree-law propinatoci, our Group produces amending activities on the substance of the matters dealt with and, after careful analysis of the resulting text, votes accordingly. It must be said that, despite the fact that we have been attending these classrooms for more than a year, the government always manages to amaze us, injuring the articulated with rules of thrill or inserting measures outside the subject matter: but you know, the government can do anything. Only our proposals are often classified as extraneous to the subject: it is not surprising, therefore, that our Group is unable, despite it, to vote favorably for the proposed measures, also because, although the pill is sometimes sung with a few paragraphs, on the whole the medicine is still a deadly and unvotable poison. Also the bill n. 1413, of conversion into law of the decree-law 28 March 2014, n. 47, introducing urgent measures for the emergency housing, for the construction market and for Expo 2015, is no exception. It must be admitted that at least there is consistency between the title and the content: in fact, there is not even an attempt to conceal the liberating will of the building market - which is in crisis, it is true - and the temporal and financial extensions of the madness of the Expo. What most disturbs us is the search for profit and recovery of public money through the sale of the assets, with which we would like to follow, miscelerating it, yet another, unjudged financial maneuver, in order to favor the brick market, devoured and crushed by the unsold. Given that we are in elections, as always, hide everything behind the calls - or the electoral-populist calls - of the housing needs of the growing population under the threshold of attention. Our conclusion is that in this decree-law, behind the pretend intent to give help to all the citizens in difficulty, the sale of old social housing under cost, now inserted in urban contexts of different tenor, to give vent to the appetites cementivori of the enterprises, that they would like to replace them with residential housing of luxury, creating at the same time the conditions in order to succeed to transform the great quantity of real estate unsold in social housing solutions or, better still, to construct new housing to be destined to the social for the relaunch of the building market in suffering, for the continuation of the economic crisis obviously. If all this is also added to the extension part for the realization without too many problems of the sensed Expo project, the circle closes: here too, in fact, we find facilities ranging from the derogation of the company certifications to the economic refinancing, just to name a few. There's nothing to say, the government is still trying: but what a new one is advancing, here the new one is moving forward and after a while it stinks as well! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure on which we are going to vote is a necessary act, but it could have had better content. In Italy there are 4 million people in living conditions and, at the same time, millions of empty and unsold rooms in large metropolitan areas. Today we are dealing with the fruits of a weak policy and an inadequate administrative position of the ruling class and parties on the territory. The result is a wild cementification, the looting of the territory and the indiscriminate consumption of the soil. The consequences are measurable not only on the urban level, but also on the hydrogeological one: the citizens of the Cinque Terre, Genoa and, more recently, Senigallia know something about it. Huge are the damage caused by heavy rains or earthquakes, even of minor magnitude. Every day in Italy you consume 100 hectares of land, eaten by sheds, villas, offices and houses. The only people who have benefited from this trend are the owners of real estate income: builders, intermediaries and, unfortunately, the mafias. I do not mean that construction is a sector that does not produce wealth: like all economic sectors, construction also deserves respect and impetus. But all this must take place within a framework of rational public policies, aimed at reducing social inequalities, stimulating innovation with modern building techniques, compatible with the needs of energy saving and limiting soil consumption. The development of real estate values is evidence, instead, of a completely arbitrary policy and hostage of the annuity. If the value of the buildings had increased steadily from 1994 to 2008, in recent years it has declined considerably due to the fact that the excess construction ended up depressing the value of the existing houses, between 20 and 40%. However, this did not bring benefits for families seeking first home: the competition of the economic and employment crisis and the compression of credit have meant that we have many young couples without homes and many empty spaces. The legislative priority must then be to find accommodation for all families who cannot support market prices: we are talking about millions of people. I had tabled an amendment to allow today's mayors what a great mayor of sixty years ago did, Giorgio La Pira: the destination of empty rooms for years to social housing, through temporary occupation, with a Calmerate Canon. I didn't get any answers. I believe that the municipalities must be the protagonists of the promotion in the matter of lease, avoiding overlapping in this role of the Regions. Such an operational role belongs more to a local level than to an intermediate territorial entity such as the Region. That is why an amendment to Article 2 had been tabled. I didn't get a match here either. For the same reasons it is wrong to foresee always and in any case an absolute right of the holder of social housing to be able to redeem it. With a formulation such as that inserted by the Government many municipalities, which are orienting their policies on the moderate canon (protracted much longer), could desist, since the social content of the forecast would be frustrated by the ransom that would then favor the possibility to sell at market prices. Finally, Article 10 is a provision that I do not agree with. We intervene in urban planning in chaotic ways, not coordinated with the previous discipline, seeking at all costs the improvised derogation when, if anything, the need should be to make the ordinary paths of urban planning work better, to which it is competent to harmonize the important theme of social housing with other equally important ones, such as, for example, the availability of work spaces for public services; the need to ensure that the recovery of disused or underused areas translates on positive occasions for the cities and not for their worsening. However, today there is no need to increase supply in a general way, forcing urban planning: on the one hand, there are already proven mechanisms, such as integrated intervention programmes or recovery plans, which also provide for the possibility of easily modifying urban planning instruments; on the other hand, we have the mass of unsold housing that would be appropriate, at least in part, for social purposes. The expected rule will have few applications and will lead to disputes and actions that are not transparent. In this connection too, I have tabled a replacement amendment to Article 10 to provide that public funding for social housing should not lead to consumption of natural soil. None of these amending proposals have been considered. I therefore reserve the right to evaluate, during the debate and the amendment phase, the evolution and changes to the text before expressing my conviction through the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the housing emergency is one of the many concerns that our country has been carrying for many years. It is an inconvenience that affects many Italian families who, over time, have become more and more important, to the point of making this urgent measure indispensable, but still not decisive. The economic crisis since 2008 has brought our country to its knees, certainly helping to worsen the condition of many families and seriously questioning the right to housing that is enshrined more or less explicitly in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in many recommendations of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. The right to a home now occupies a privileged place in the panorama of human rights. Housing, however, is also a right recognised by our Constitution: in paragraph 2 of Article 47 it is expressly stated that the Republic favors the access of popular savings to the property of the dwelling. To the Government should be sufficient this as a point and as a warning, but we are faced, once again, with a decree that is defined as a "habitation emergency," but whose only purpose was to sell accommodation, not assigned or not inhabited, to friends of friends, in order to make cash and build others: I said "it was not by chance," because the Government's intention will no longer be realized thanks to the two amendments submitted by the 5 Star Movement and approved in the Commission, which provide for the creation of a national database of public buildings, which can be consulted by a specific section on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and the census and updating of public property by the Municipalities. In this national database, accessible by anyone who wants to know about it, will be catalogued the properties rented, those to be rented, those for which ransom application has been submitted, as well as those for which the procedure of alienation has been initiated. This will allow any citizen to keep up to date on the status of public buildings. We are for transparency. For the caste it will therefore be more complicated to plummet in the way of the vultures on the disposals of the public real estate. To clarify also irrefutably the position of the Government on the emergency housing it thinks Article 5 of the decree in question, that, in the matter of the abusive occupation of real estate, establishes that anyone who illegally occupies a property without title cannot ask for the residence or the connection to public services in relation to the same property, and that the acts issued in violation of such prohibition are null and void to all effects of law. It is clear that the Commission has no respect for the relevant provisions of the Strasbourg resolutions and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the consolidated jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. In recent years, the occupation of unused buildings has proved to be the only possibility for many families to secure their lucky accommodation, a roof under which they can live. This measure should have dealt with these families, but we are faced, once again, with rules that help banks and builders. Where are the income-related resources for social housing in this decree? What sense does it make to continue building and cementing every square metre available in the great Italian cities, if then most of the accommodations remain empty or abandoned, both for purely speculative reasons of the builders, who cynically decide to wait for economically more advantageous periods, both for a system of access to loans that remains clearly taboo for the precarious, that the job act has increased? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The result is that there is a large unused real estate that should be redeveloped and recovered, allowing us to use it on more advantageous conditions. We cannot forget that at the Eagle, in 2009, an earthquake destroyed the real estate. Well, we cannot forget that the victim, in the television lounges, boasted the construction of housing for all citizens and hoped that such accommodation would also become of use for public housing in large cities. We then wonder if, behind this, there are also other interests, if there is a further compromise - a "Renzusconi" - also for this measure, to continue to sell something that has not already guaranteed the reconstruction of the Eagle's heritage and masking your goals with goodness. Not even the Expo 2015 allows everyone to take advantage of that opportunity that you boast, because access is reserved to friends. In order to give substantial economic impact, instead, a widespread and sustainable Expo had to be set up, outside the site identified and valorizing existing sites. Nearby, you want to concentrate visitors in one place, while in a widespread distribution there would have been less chance of hegemonizing the event. Different and wise choices would come from an honest policy, free from economic and electoral interests, but it is not yours, and in every measure you continue unequivocally to prove it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u35	The measure we're talking about has finally shown us! - that you and we have a different idea of state, because it's all there. Your idea of the state and the relationship between the state and the citizens is different from ours. I will now give examples that will clarify this concept. For example, this text is the result of mediation. When mediation is done, it means that there are opposing interests and, therefore, we are looking for a middle way. To paraphrase something that has already been said, it is then to take a plate and put a little risotto and a little Guano. We citizens, who are here, don't like it very much, and we don't want to let the people outside eat it either. Therefore, a dish of this type we consider inadmissible and even the attempt to remove the guano does not make the dish more appetizing. Why is this a different idea of the state and the relationship between state and citizens? Simply because you think that public housing and this provision are intended not to give a roof to those who do not have it, as the Constitution says, but to contest this interest and the interest of those who want to build or those who have already built and do not know how to sell, because this is the concept. It may be commendable, from your point of view, but it is not the spirit with which you should do things. We are talking about social housing, but what is social housing? It is the whole of the properties that must be available for rent and not for sale. This is the text that allows us not to configure the fee agreed as State aid under two articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So every time you take social housing and sell it, you do something wrong. Then there is the other issue of the sale of public housing. But why do we have to sell it? You say: because one is in it and we sell it to him. Apparently it sounds good, but it's wrong, because public housing has the function of giving a roof to those who don't have it. Forgive me, but if one, at some point, acquires the economic power to buy it, then there is someone behind him who doesn't have it and should go inside him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the truth! So, this person should be told: kindly, leave the place, since now you have a cheap lung to buy; maybe it's another way, favoring her and helping her to buy a house somewhere else. Because otherwise this problem will never be solved. The state doesn't have to be a buildinger, and it doesn't have to help the buildinger either. Another thing you've inserted sounds good, apparently: why build new if there's any unsold builder? That sounds good, but that's wrong too. Why is it wrong? It's wrong because the builder built something without knowing who to sell it to in view of a future sale. We do him a favor. After that soil consumption does not stop, but perpetuates itself, why does the builder do? He takes that money and he still builds it. He's a builder, so what do you want me to do, the farmer? No, he's a builder. Then you talk about stop at land use. It is false, because you refer to the urban planning tools that have already planned the future consumption of soil. When we asked you about the actual soil consumption, not the planned soil consumption, you said no. So, what land use stop are we talking about? No one. Another thing: you do not know - because you do not know - how many popular homes the State has, how many are occupied and in what capacity. A planner who wants to do something planned - you said you want to do something planned - does not resort to the decree. Someone also said that this provision was not urgent: but then why is a decree made, if it is not urgent? Planning wants me to find out what I need first, and then I'm going to see how to solve it: this is the chronological order by which we have to act, and not the opposite. You do the opposite, and why? To do friends' favors. I'd like to add something more. You're talking about an agreed fee for social housing. In this regard, too, you have paved the way for iniquity, because the agreed fee is a fee in which the parties agree to make a discount on the market price, which may be the adjustment of inflation or a lower fee. You want to make a discount on the IMU and rent regardless of whether I can give my house a dime of market rent rather than market rent less epsilon. However, tax treatment is the same, violating a principle of the Constitution that says that taxation cannot be done this way. Then let's look at this Constitution! Again. You have inserted the mobile bonus; first it was a matter that was clearly foreign, then, for political needs, as the President of the Commission said, it came back. So things become homogeneous according to political necessity. Well, that's not what we do. That's what you do. But the aberrant thing - and I'm sorry - is that in the mobile bonus, which gives a relief for the purchase of low consumption appliances, there are also kitchen furniture: where is the energy saving of a table or chair? Unless you turn them around and put them against the wall for thermal insulation, there isn't. [[Applause from Senator Moronese]] True, this has revived the furniture industry, but it produces it abroad. I know of companies that do this: they assemble in Italy the piece built abroad, because the material do it in Taiwan, China, Vietnam. So, even the fact that you encourage the national industry is false: it's a hemorrhaging of foreign capital; that's what you're doing. We are to give people a roof, but respecting what the State must be: the role of the State must not be that of intermediary in the sale or direct seller or lender for those who have built without having the right to sell. I want to close my speech by paraphrasing something that was said by the Native Americans: once we cut the last tree, caught the last fish, and - I add - cemented the last square meter, what do we want to eat? It is useless to continue to speak to the future (we will do, we will stop). We must speak to the present, because perhaps the future will not be like this anymore, but it will be a future in which we will have to say: I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong. We know it; but you go on like this! The light at the end of the tunnel is a train that comes in the opposite direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u36	We will definitely have risotto, I hope not with the recipe Scibona! She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u37	Mr President, we could call this a measure which, after more than a decade, has given rise to social cohesion. He does it in two different ways. I think it's useful. First of all, by restoring the centrality of social policies to the home issue. No one escapes, I believe, that a substantial part of the income of a significant share of Italian households has been absorbed over the course of these years more and more by household spending. This measure does not enter so much into the merit of the houses owned and its, often costly, mortgage, issue partially addressed in recent years, without ever being fully resolved (and it is proof, unfortunately, the amount of economic interventions of the banks to recover the real estate); it deals, rather, with that important part of the Italian population that, living for rent, to be able to pay it spends well over a third or a quarter of its income, reducing itself to poverty, in the vast majority of cases, or ending up returning to the nourished world of evicted moroses. There are several articles that encourage Regions and local authorities, as well as private entities, through financing planned for a period finally medium-long (let's organize all 2015), finally promoting the start of a real plan, a real planning aimed at contributing substantially to families in difficulty for these expensive rents and aimed at producing an agreement, through the municipalities or agencies to this Member, able to achieve the objective of extending the offer at prices calmed on the rental market. This decree also has the ambition to recreate public-private solidarity. This fundamental aspect, aimed at rebuilding trust between public institutions and private entities in this country, has perhaps not been sufficiently highlighted. It is important to restore soul and voice to the movement within legality and respect between public bodies and private entities, a renewed pact to guarantee private individuals in their rights and, at the same time, to reduce the tax burden on those who agree to reduce the amount of rent for the benefit of the millions of young people, elderly people and families without adequate funds to rent. There is support for ransom from tenants of popular homes who have increased their income and can evaluate this opportunity. Mr Martelli, I repeat: this opportunity. It is not an obligation, it is a further faculty: it is granted to the tenants of the housing that have increased their income by a tot to be able to evaluate the purchase of an apartment outside, leaving that building, rather than considering the possibility of redeeming that house in that building. We are also working in this direction with the reduction of bank rates, so that they are given a further option. I would like to remind you that the social housing itself, of course, has a social cost that comes to be calculated in relation to the important reduction - even up to the cancellation - of the rent; well, that social cost is no longer there, when the tenant makes himself autonomous and is in the willingness to have access to an ordinary activity in the context of his own lease. In this decree there is also another very important element: the constraint for the local authorities owners to use every euro recovered from the sale in order to promote the recovery and the purchase, favoring the building without consumption of new soil, subsidised and affiliated housing. It is therefore encouraged to make new housing available thanks to the transfer of the same old housing to the previous tenants. Municipalities are included in the benefits of this law, as well as all Italian public entities, none excluded. It is not irrelevant that we finally go to clarify what is meant by social housing. This decree indicates the urgent need to update the list of high-voltage housing municipalities, which has been stationary since 2003. In ten years things have changed, certainly not positive in this area: hence the urgent need to do so quickly. Article 12 is another element to be highlighted. We have put back on track a right for specialized construction companies to participate fully in public procurement; right that they have been expropriated following the decree of the President of the Republic of 30 October 2013, thus deleting from the panorama of Italian construction companies the recognizability of the qualification of specialist and superspecialistic companies with significant technical complexity and remarkable technological content. Then there is Article 7, the improved extension of the 2013 Finance Act, in which the ecobonus was extended, i.e. the tax deductions for the costs incurred in the restructuring work involving the purchase of household appliances or furniture, without, however, as previously, limiting the assessment of the restructuring in order to consider the aforementioned expenses. It is not only a solicitation of the companies in the sector, but it is a solicitation that comes mainly from the private market. To be honest, we have uniquely intended to put a firm point for a serious fight against abusive employment, which is often certainly violent and organized and prevents the use of social housing to those entitled, once again having the prevalence, in this country, of abuse over the law. On the other hand, as long as national policy has not intended to deal, as we are now trying to do (still timidly, if we want, but are trying to do so), with the issue of housing as social housing, it was natural to turn your face on the other side and not to deal with too many cases of rampant illegality, especially in large cities. We have been animated - let us say this - in the Commission if we really need to get our hands on to the point of preventing abusive workers for five years from having the chance to sign up for the rankings in order to return to the right to have a home like all Italian citizens, no one excluded, even if they have committed crimes. On this we have not achieved an identity of views, but overall we have honestly included very important issues in this bill, to move and resolve the home issue after a dramatic absence for a decade of the policies it is intended for. Suffice it to say that the funds for supporting access to rented houses were EUR 388 million in 1999, whereas today, and for a long time, the figure for this purpose is zero. A small Copernican revolution began, in style but also in content, with the explicit will to restore dignity to Italian individuals and families, thanks to a new public and private public solidarity, of great human and political value - I repeat - although not yet sufficient from the economic point of view for the resources put in place, but on which we intend, with seriousness and continuity, to continue to invest. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u38	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the approach to this House of this measure is a small success for this Government: for the relative speed with which it has come to the conclusion of the process; for the ability to compare and deepen that has been made by the Commissions these days; and especially for the punctuality of the provisions contained therein, which have clearly and courageously filled operational gaps which, unfortunately, have conditioned for decades the so-called housing emergency. And, with these premises, the Piano casa is one of the starting points of a new road map of management of housing distress; thousands of Italians ask us that, without an adequate income and with dependent families, they are faced with difficult situations, without a reference to housing. As Federcasa pointed out in her latest report, there are currently 650,000 questions from families who are entitled to popular housing and who lie in the rankings waiting for an assignment that does not arrive. This photograph by Federcasa, which is however limited to a sample of 41 cities, underlines that the trend is destined to increase: in fact, according to the report, during 2014 the demand for popular homes by citizens will grow by 30 percent compared to 2013, as if it were a variable directly proportional to the increase in unemployment in our country. This must be considered very carefully. The Home Floor, as anticipated, provides for interventions of about two billion euros and the priority objectives revolve around three precise guidelines: support for rent agreed, the extension of the offer of popular housing and the development of social housing. Practically, with particular regard to the last two points, it is a project that in Italy has heard very little about in the last twenty years. It is worth pointing out here that Parliament has paid considerable attention to the comments and suggestions of audit staff over the past few weeks. Therefore, we can frame the measure under consideration, and the investigation that accompanied it, as an all-inclusive and fully responsive response to the changed social needs. In fact, it was also intended to give preference to a different point of view: to identify problems settled in years of poor or superficial emergency management and to put solutions; to tackle in a decisive way the limits, legitimized by a condescending policy, that compromise the setting up of an important system such as that of the regular allocation of popular housing. I refer to the problem of abusive employment, on which some interesting amendments have been adopted, such as those on the removal from the lists for the allocation of housing for five years for those who are illegally employed. To this extent, so to speak rigid but due, the Commissions have approached interesting rules aimed at facilitating the allocation of popular properties. Within four months a plan for the recovery and rationalization of buildings and housing owned by the Autonomous Institutes for People's Houses and Municipalities will have to be approved. This is an innovative measure, through which tenants of housing will be able to receive state contributions to purchase the same housing, with the resources of the appropriate fund. To this is added the provision that municipalities can rent by private individuals in order to assign these properties to families that need accommodation, including evicted persons. This solution also means significant savings for the municipalities. For months we have been repeating that the most far-sighted and effective measures are those that take into account the status quo and identify the most practical solution, although aimed at healing an anomaly. From this point of view, the mini sanatories provided for by the measure are to be framed, such as the extension of the protections for INPS tenants who cannot proceed to the purchase of the occupied property, and the renewal of the terms for the regularization of the renters sine titulo. In this commendable view of the contextualization of protection interventions, the proposal is included, among other things, which I also presented, to reduce the value of the IMU to 4 per thousand in case of a canon or for housing located in municipalities where there is an emergency housing. The aim is to allow access to a sustainable fee to the weakest groups and at the same time revive the rental market, eliminating the risk of leaving the management of the agreed rate of fees to the discretion of the municipalities and stimulating the entry of new housing on the market. This would also provide an opportunity for work and an increase in VAT revenue, while at the same time generating an increase in consumption. Equally valuable is the exemption of registration and stamp tax in the case of lease agreements which provide for a reduction of the fee if there is specific agreement between the parties. These are, I repeat, measures to allow a return of the housing emergency, but also to stimulate the economy through a revival of consumption. The amending proposal I have called for, together with my colleagues from abroad, concerning the current configuration of the IMU tax for citizens who are not resident in Italy but who own a property on the territory of origin, deserves particular attention. The amendment, which is part of a multi-annual process of confrontation and solicitation of the Government, aims to correct the current legislation on the configuration of the house, restoring the provisions of Law No 75 of 1993, overcoming the discretion granted to the municipalities, which is highly questionable and the dubious legitimacy. This amendment confirms the original will of the legislator who intended to equate the status of Italian citizens' homes within and outside national borders. It is worth remembering that the properties held in Italy by our compatriots are often small houses, hereditary bequests or family memories, with little cadastral value, placed most of the time in the Italian province. Many of these, because of the tax burden, have already been put up for sale by the owners, with obvious consequences in terms of economic return to the territory. For this proposal, as for others, we expect the opinion of the Budget Committee on the burdens determined in relation to what originally provided for in the decree, but I believe that the cover identified so far can adequately meet the priority requirements of these provisions, in perfect harmony with the spirit of the decree and with the prospects of intervention of the Government; I also say this to our rapporteurs. I believe that, at this point and considering the spirit of trust and expectation with which we look at these standards by millions of citizens, we cannot afford a back-up in the name of the usual budget requirements, because I think it is well known to all that austerity, especially on the side of social emergencies, does not lead anywhere, but serves only to fuel the pull between institutions and citizens in an atmosphere already strongly conditioned by protests and humor. On the side of the Italian housing emergency remains a lot to do and above all it remains to see how the implementing decrees and related measures will be produced. Therefore, there will be a need for significant monitoring by the competent authorities, but we believe that what has been done so far represents a turning point, which will be appreciated by the citizens and which will help to give a good injection of trust and hope in Italian society. [[Applause from Senators Esposito Stefano and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u40	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Ferrajolo-Caparasso in Acerra, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u42	Mr President, senators, senators, government representatives, Italy is today the country with the largest number of homeowners and the house remains the main investment of our families. In recent years, however, the increase in the cost of real estate, together with the difficulty, especially of young people, to have access to a mortgage, has made the purchase of a house a fact that is no longer within everyone's reach. At the same time, the composition of households is changing: smaller, especially in large cities, where the number of people living alone also increases. The crisis then erodes the income of the families, compromising the possibility for many nuclei to pay the rents. Alongside the emergency caused by those who are unable to pay the rent (an emergency to which we must respond, for example by facilitating Calmierati rents), a different housing requirement is being produced: the demand is for smaller housing and policies that address the problem of access to credit. At the same time we must not forget that in recent decades in Italy it has been built so much and too many times even badly. According to the WWF, in the last fifty years the share of land on which it has been built is equal to the entire territory of Lombardy and Veneto put together. By admitting that this figure is exaggerated, however, it is absolutely significant. Today the theme is not to continue to build but to retrain the houses that already exist, improving the aesthetic and structural quality, but above all the energy efficiency. Today the theme is also to fight the hydrogeological failure that some wild building has produced. We must then secure our cities and our homes, many historic centers, where there are still crumbling buildings and exposed to seismic risk. The measure that we are debating today has had a very positive path in the two Commissions meeting, where during the hearings we had the opportunity to listen to important and significant speeches, which have sketched a really complete picture on the subject, beyond the content of the bill. For this reason it is a real thanks, and not a circumstance, to all the members of the Commissions, to the rapporteurs, to the members of the Government who have followed the procedure of the measure, and in particular to the Deputy Minister Nencini who has followed all the work of the two Commissions. A measure that introduces so many positive elements, simplification and relaunch, but that pays - like others, unfortunately - for the lack of adequate economic coverage that would be necessary for a profound reform of the system, that is, able to produce a radical reversal on the market of purchases and rents. During the auditions we gathered many interesting ideas. There have been many proposals for action. We would have liked to have been able to intervene on many other aspects of the construction sector. Unfortunately, we couldn't do that. I hope there will be a new opportunity with the presentation of a wider measure in which to intervene more radically. However, I would like to point out a lack of the measure in question, in the sense that it should give more answers to the social housing problem, which is the real purpose of the measure. If we had succeeded - in part we have succeeded but not enough - we would have produced two benefits. Firstly, that of relaunching the construction sector which, as we know, has led to a very substantial and, secondly, that of responding to sustainable social standards for all. Unfortunately, today, societies that build social housing are not facilitated. Today there is a very strong difference on the tax base between public-owned public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-sector public-private-sector private-sector housing. The difference, not least, is that while the first rent almost always on a social canon, the second do it at a moderate canon, which is about three times as much. The consequence is that today public companies are in great difficulty and are unable to better develop their own offer. I still remember that public companies do not produce profits and often even produce losses; however, they find themselves having a very high tax burden. I would like to recall here my only amendment which I maintained on this draft law, which was unanimously adopted yesterday evening by the two Commissions meeting, which concerns the particular case of the Autonomous Province of Trento, which for many years now has developed an incisive house policy. In 2002 the Province decided to transform the Trentino Institute for Housing into a public limited company. This has allowed our territory to develop construction initiatives with a moderate fee and a social fee absolutely important. Today we risk to frustrate this path, because unfortunately the national legislation has not updated its instruments and therefore our society finds to have a double taxation compared to the other IACP. This amendment, therefore, aims to do justice, to update national legislation. And I hope, since the two Commissions and the Government have accepted the proposal politically, that we will also be able to guarantee the necessary economic coverage, which is only provisional. In fact, if this amendment is not approved the Province of Trento will be forced to bring back the current Trentino Institute for housing in the public institutions instrumental of the Province, then in a public structure, with a tax that will return to be the facilitated one. But it would be a step backwards compared to the new policies of the Government, not only of this, but also of the previous ones, who wanted to propose innovative solutions much more elastic and capable of having a strong impact in the social building sector. I was then forced to withdraw other amendments which would have considerably developed the social housing sector, but I understand that the economic constraints of our budget would not have allowed it to be approved. In the same way, I have withdrawn other amendments concerning tax concessions and deductions for the energy redevelopment of housing and for small-scale maintenance. I hope that in future the Government will come back to this, because we have seen that tax deductions generate a double benefit: on the one hand, with tax deductions, Italian families willingly and immediately invest in this sector, giving it oxygen, on the other, this causes the emergence of black work, especially in smaller jobs. Having said that, the measure has a number of important ideas, starting with the new dry coupon on rents agreed and the possibility of redemption of housing after seven years of rent. We self-employed have always argued that the ability to compete to acquire the property of the dwelling motivates families and even children who know that they can receive a future inheritance of the dwelling. Therefore, for us to be able to aspire to the acquisition of property is an absolutely positive fact, especially in mountain areas, but not only. Positive amendments are also accepted in the Commission that facilitate the payment of house taxes by certain particular categories, such as Italian immigrants registered in the Register of Italian residents abroad (AIRE) who maintain a home in our country (rightly) or the elderly who stay temporarily or permanently in a nursing home; positive are also the resources allocated in favour of the blameless morosities, as well as the rules aimed at eliminating abusive employment and to counter abusing in construction. It is also a positive agenda, which I proposed and signed by my colleagues in the Group for the Independents, on the energy certification certificate, with which the Government undertakes to provide tax exemptions, in order to ensure that the production of this certificate does not lead to an increase in rents. In short, we believe that the measure under consideration is overall positive and capable of really affecting people's lives. We think, however, that compared to the elements I said earlier (social housing, the different housing needs, the difficulties of access to credit, the consumption of land) more had to be done and could be done, as almost all colleagues have pointed out. We must make a strong contribution to the redevelopment of the existing system, encouraging citizens to do so through tax relief. We must help the construction sector to start again in this way, because it remains a key element and a driving force in our economy. The hope is that this will be done as soon as possible. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u43	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u44	Mr President, senators and senators, or we understand that when we talk about new poverty in Europe and Italy, the case of housing emergency is the central heart of this suffering that is coming down on our country and on our continent, or we risk turning around the dramatic problems that we claim to face. Then, out of austerity, when we put that question, the right to home and dignity is central. In fact, austerity policies increasingly impoverish our territories and especially our cities, making fundamental rights a mirage for an ever wider part of the citizens. A dramatic situation is that of the right to live in Italy. I am thinking of the case of Rome, where more than 50,000 families are waiting for a house and the average cost of renting a property exceeds 900 euros per month. Rome is a city where the relationship between evictions and resident families is of one every 222, so it exceeds (and by much) the national average, which is of one every 371. It is an already dramatic average in itself, a clear sign of the particular gravity of the situation. I want to say this: the administrators of the Left Ecology and Freedom are committed everywhere in the local institutions to carry out daily the task of ensuring, on the one hand, that the social drama does not result in issues of public order and, on the other hand, that concrete and effective responses are given that restore dignity and rights to those who are paying the most for this crisis. For politics and institutions, tackling new poverty as a housing emergency means playing a social mediation role. The forces that hold the great part of the wealth in the cities and that have grown in the land rent and in the management of the services in monopoly are engaged in a wild campaign for the maintenance of the status quo, in order not to produce that transformation, as urgent and necessary as ever, in order to make fully enforceable the rights of all citizens. But politics, and especially the left, must respond by keeping the bar straight and showing ability to good governance - certainly, where one governs - and social mediation, to accompany the transformation, especially of the cities that, outside the cage of austerity, must become livable places, where the rights apply for all and for all. Government policies, on the other hand, and this inertia that we find, can have devastating effects on social security, particularly for housing policies, also because of Article 5 of the measure under consideration, which risks transforming the housing emergency into a dramatic issue of public order. It was mentioned in some speeches that preceded me the approach to the speeches on abuse, with the prediction of the exclusion from the rankings, in a first hypothesis for ten years, then reduced with an amendment to five. But politics must do the opposite: it must try to bring back on paths of absolute legality precisely those who live the dramatic housing emergency, and not put it in a position of inevitable illegality because it cannot participate in the rankings, even if the problem is recognized as absolutely obvious and dramatic. In Italy, therefore, we also need an extraordinary plan for residential public housing. An extraordinary plan for the housing emergency can be a model of policies that should be followed at national level, aimed primarily at the recovery and self-recovering of public real estate; I refer primarily to the regional heritage and, following, the one owned by the State, public administrations and public bodies, as well as the acquisition and/or recovery of private property on the free market at calm prices, with a view to urban regeneration. In this sense, the self-recovering represents a shared response to the housing emergency. There are many public buildings abandoned, and these are spaces that have been in decline for years. The tool of self-recovering, through the direct participation of future users who take part in some phases of the restructuring process, offers the possibility to produce housing at an affordable price accessible to the less well-off categories, to improve the environmental and air quality and to restore relations between the marginalized fabric and the rest of the city. Heritage must be a flywheel for rights. The municipalities have a great real estate heritage, and its use for self-recovering purposes, together with alienation of part of that heritage, can and must be a strong flywheel. I am thinking of the case of Rome, but it applies to all municipalities. We must also take important and courageous measures, such as the blockade of evictions. The data of the Ministry of the Interior photograph an increasingly heavy crisis: they drastically increase the people who literally remain in the middle of a road because they can no longer pay the rent. Taking again, for example, Rome, in 2012 the evictions carried out with the intervention of the judicial officer were 2,400, an increase compared to 2011 of 2,73 percent, while the eviction measures issued in Rome were 7,014. In short, we must aim to put the blockade of evictions on the agenda as an urgency, so as not to explode an even more dramatic situation: I have talked about urban regeneration, but we also need other positive actions; this must make the policy: good governance and social mediation, reuse and powerful incentives to determine these positive actions. In the Commission, an important and interesting confrontation took place, but it must be understood whether it meets with the will to make choices to identify and make available resources, in a situation that we all recognize as dramatic from the economic and financial point of view for our country. We have therefore talked about tax deductions, not just for social housing: we must have courage to bring about positive conveniences and bring out all that is negative, like black. We therefore need adequate resources, I repeat, because those available today are not, especially for those municipalities where the housing emergency is explosive. We begin to do and to put into practice those "proposed shocks," which the Government always repeats in its communications, to intervene where the emergency is most alive and has now touched the nerves of a tissue unfortunately increasingly vast of our population, especially in the big cities and metropolis of our country. We must do this if we are to break the paradox of a huge Italian injustice, that of having hundreds of thousands of empty houses, without people, and millions of people without homes. This is a paradox of all Italian drama: if we want to break it, we start to tell ourselves that this is definitely a moral crime. In a country that sees people in the middle of the street and in which there are millions of homeless people, there are hundreds of thousands of homes without people; and these are children, elderly people, who are in this condition every day and every night. Let us reflect on this, because it concerns those who commit and those who allow this crime: I say this also in terms of self-criticism, because it concerns us too that we cannot prevent it. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u45	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u46	Mr President, one of the sectors most affected by the current global crisis is the real estate crisis: from there all the evils related to so-called subprime mortgages on real estate, namely the crisis of banks, the restriction of credit and the recession of the economy. The speculative bubble from the United States has reverberated all over the world, particularly in some areas from Europe, such as Spain, strongly affecting both the real estate market and the construction market in Italy. Over the last five years, we have seen a fall in investment in new homes, a fall in employment of 54 percent, as well as 750,000 jobs and 203,000 permits to build. Needless to remember that the construction sector is linked to the large supply chain of the pipeline, from design to materials to build, from plant engineering to logistics, to real estate agencies and more. We are faced with an important dynamic, which affects all the other sectors of the economy because of its vastness: the sale has seen the number of real estate treated between 2007 and 2013 reduced by more than 50%. The growth of the population and, in spite of everything, the increase in the number of families resident in Italy has however held on very high levels the housing demand. However, the credit restriction had a negative impact on purchases and the insufficient offer of rented housing expanded the scope of the problem. Houses for rent out of the total are less than 20 percent, while in France these values are 40 percent and in Germany 60 percent. For about 10 years, there has been an estimated 700,000 housing needs. This series of problems should have been handled by the Government's decree on our examination. The decree, on the other hand, addressed the problem with a wrong approach: it proposed wrong solutions. The suggestions made by the trade associations, which were diligently heard by the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a, were worthless. The rules included in the decree are still quotas and not organic. They try to deal with the emergency, as the same title of the decree, but they do not propose lasting solutions, nor structural ones. Absent is a real home floor. I should like to point out, among other things, that this decree takes action in a manner and time that is not such as to justify the urgency procedure. Many of the measures contained therein will have to be implemented by successive decrees or ministerial provisions. The measures are therefore very short-lived: the refinancing of the National Fund for support for access to rented housing and the Fund for unscathed dying tenants (Article 1) has a temporary impact and is implemented through the usual instrument, so dear to the left, of the mediation of resources by the State and its institutions. Mediation has - of course - a cost, which is distracted from the destination to which it is primarily addressed by the Fund. The composite allocation of powers (Article 2) to manage these funds between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, does not solve the problem, indeed it could even complicate the bureaucratic process of managing the amounts allocated. The plan for the alienation and recovery of public housing (Articles 3 and 4) has long periods, such as not to justify their inclusion in the decree. A plan of rationalization and recovery of the vast public real estate assets is certainly necessary. The modalities, however, are to be inserted in a time span of one or more years and certainly not useful to solve the emergency, which is today's. With regard to Article 3, and the procedures for the disposal of the properties of the ACPs and former ACPs, however, referred to, a fundamental fact shall not be taken into account. These entities do not have a single legal reason: in the South they have remained instrumental bodies under non-economic public law; in the North they have become economic entities; in some regions, such as - for example - Emilia Romagna and Tuscany, they are agencies managing real estate owned by Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. In this respect, a rule providing for the alienation of their property would be detrimental to their property rights and would result in an infringement of Article 117 of the Constitution. In order to encourage a real rental market, on the contrary, the tax concessions provided for in Articles 6 and 7 of the Decree should have been extended to all rentals. Unfortunately, these measures are limited to social housing and will certainly have a very limited scope. Article 8, which provides for the redemption of social housing after at least 7 years, seems to be modelled on the interests of the tenant, without taking into account in any way the will of the owner of the property. The approach is absolutely ideological and left-wing. Another type of approach, which provided for the agreement of the parties and proposed tax concessions for both parties, could have extended the rule on the model of the formula "rent to buy" which is also a free expression of the market. The reduction in the rate of the dry coupon provided for in Article 9 also remains a partial reform, because it concerns only the buildings with an agreed rent. If it had also extended to free rent contracts, there would have been a further positive revolution. The rule on dry coupons, strongly opposed at the beginning by the left, has demonstrated over the years, on the contrary, the emergence of the blackout and has led to the growth of the tax revenues of the sector. In general, the provisions of Article 10 for social housing appear to provide for a narrow and limited concept of social housing, whereas, on the contrary, a broader and more inclusive forecast, aimed at hospitality as a broader concept, could contain and resolve more cases of housing distress. In addition, there is no award for the private sector that wants to participate in the expansion of social housing. Finally, it must be said that, precisely from the distribution of the resources provided for in the decree - most of which will be used since 2016 - the legislative intervention to our examination seems poorly thought out, unable to give answers in the short term, but with great difficulties of success also in the medium term. The mark of the decree is clearly against the market, considering that the facilities for the property, which has the objective of renting an apartment, constitute only 10% of what is allocated overall by the measure. In other words, the social function of the owner, often the small owner, is not recognized, given how widespread real estate is in Italy. It is not recognised as appropriate tax breaks. The fight against the abusive occupation of real estate (in this sense I would like to stress how many small owners who have bought or preserved their apartment with sacrifice) are involved) is also feeble. The bland rules proposed by the center-left for those who carry out a very serious act, such as occupying the house of another, and the even more bland amendments proposed by the 5 Star Movement say a lot about the direction that is being taken. Forza Italia protects real estate, for us the house must be preserved, it must be taxed if first home, it must be encouraged the savings aimed at the purchase of the home of their children. For the Democratic Party and for the 5 Star Movement the property has returned to being a theft, just as the communists have always supported. There is an ideological overlap between center-left and Grillo Movement which must be openly denounced here to public opinion and exposed. [[Comments of Senator Cappelletti]] I stop here on the part I wanted to write, but there is a whole part on which I like to go by arm and which draws an action by the Monti government, guilty in my opinion. It cannot be said that Premier Monti was unaware of what he was doing when he was premier. Perhaps we can justify Letta, not really prepared on the subject, and perhaps Renzi, today accustomed to presenting draft laws and decrees-laws that are then besieged in one House rather than another, making the Italians believe that the problems are solved. I would like to mention some data, according to which solutions are handheld evidence and, however, are not taken (and perhaps we should ask ourselves why): 800,000 are the inaccessible properties in Italy that are widely and distinctly owned by public or private property; about 160,000 are the unsold properties, that is, built by the national construction companies, but that the same did not manage to sell for the future of the economic crisis; 700,000 instead are the questions that come from the weak groups asking for popular houses or that grey band that, in the transition from lira to euro, found itself, compared with the 2 and a half million lire of the previous salary, with 1,250 euros that nothing or little is worth. In the face of this, it would be enough to allocate sums of money. We know perfectly well where the buildings are located and we know perfectly well that the public housing agencies or municipalities are perfectly able to intervene in those buildings and, consequently, to give immediate answers to those whose decree-laws of emergency housing should, as a function, address: all this does not happen. In 2007, when we were still paying ICI on the first house, the tax burden on Italians was 10.5 billion euros. Later (and I like that at this moment President Calderoli is presiding) he imagined, within a discipline of fiscal federalism, a strong synallagma between the people, the administrator, the house, the cost of the house and the service. Faced with this, that Monti I mentioned before (that I cannot think he was in good faith, but only in bad faith, because he is a professor), imagined to superimpose the intelligent and important effort to imagine the municipal tax own on real estate, a tax calling it in the same way, IMU, but hitting the first house: an artist we could say, because I can not imagine that he was in bad faith. And still continuing, always blamelessly (because in this case it is in good faith, but perhaps not prepared) and for the dynamics that I said before, that characterize Prime Minister Renzi not only on the ability to change, but also on the word that constantly engages him in the Government (speed, speed, speed!) and that nothing then translates, we have passed, from Letta to Renzi, to a tax pressure of about 33.5 billion euros, against an income per capita and a gross domestic product that descends: therefore the triple taxation before a lesser ability of the Italians to answer it. And again, there is bad faith because the fact that the taxes on solid waste relating to buildings, which we call TARI, do not apply the European principle (the one according to which the most pollute, the more pays), but the capital principle (according to the type of activity you have, for the sole reason of living or owning a business, a restaurant, a resale of fruit or a discotheque, you are taxed according to the square meters and not what you produce as garbage) shows that there is an ideological approach aimed at pressure on Italians. But can I imagine that there can only be good faith? I worry, because if it were good faith it would mean that rulers and bureaucrats are there to put pressure on the Italians to make them so poor that then - perhaps - when we have to sell ENAV, or the Post Office pieces, or the State pieces with strong Italian, European powers or perhaps international finance, at that time, these Italians open their arms and say: it's okay, as long as the state coffers are healed. Gentlemen, the properties have lost 30% of their value and the banks are not able to provide: we are not able to give answers in terms of homes to the Italians even if the houses we have them. A gem is that of the ecobonus. We have seen that, with difficulty, in the last semester of last year, on renovations and energy efficiency, spending 60-70 million euros, we have found ourselves that many Italians have decided to invest and renovate their home, upgrading it energyly, changing maybe the windows and anything else. Well, for public housing we have proposed the extension of these ecobonus because, compared with those 70 million, we have created jobs and - subsequently - also revenue for the Erario. If we have seen this on the private sector, we need to do it on the public housing front: 750,000 people's homes, perhaps whole complexes run by a single body; easy procurement; easy work for businesses and, as a result, more revenue; more work; more jobs; more businesses working. The answer was: there are no covers. Excuse me, gentlemen, but the government makes the political choices; we cannot make them to the Accounting Office. Because that accountant, if he were in good faith, seeing what we were able to do with the ecobonus on private homes, would also make us act on housing. And if we didn't, it's because -- back to the beginning -- there's only bad faith. The problem can be solved: when we want to solve it it will perhaps be too late. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs - Senator Mirabelli and Senator Stefano Esposito - and the Government for the fruitful work that has been done on a measure of a very important nature for our country and for many citizens. Of course, it is not necessary for me to point out that we are faced with a measure that - the rapporteur has done well to underline it - although he tries not to have an emerging approach to the issue of the house, tries to outline - and I believe he can do so - an address and to indicate a structural and organic direction to address a primary problem for our country. It certainly retains, however, (as is well understood from the reading of the title) the characteristics of urgency; and, like all urgent measures, it obviously suffers, in some parts, especially as regards the allocation of resources that would be necessary to deploy policies even more incisive in this area, some limitations. However, let me say that the work in the Commission has tried to overcome these limitations and, especially with respect to the financial allocations that the country had previously to deal with the problem of housing emergency, is now a significant step forward. Having said that, I believe that there are some very positive aspects which must be highlighted in this measure, even if we take up the demands of the debate. First of all, it should be stressed that the funds I have just mentioned have been extended and that, in particular with regard to the rent-support funds and those for the blameless morosity, they define and determine measures consistent with the social equity approach to which the Government has effectively begun to work. I also believe that in this measure we must understand the coherent nature that the rules put in place produce, by encouraging, also through special agencies, an optimal use of resources, the effective meeting between supply and demand; using tax leverage as an incentive instrument, the emergence of the rental market and the good practice of the agreed rent; providing simplified procedures for the sale of properties owned by autonomous institutions, public houses and even public bodies; allocating appropriate resources to support in account the purchase and access to the property of the house in this direction. The measure under consideration - I would like to stress this - sets out a mix which, if properly pursued and monitored during the implementation phase (I must say that the work in the Commission has also gone in the direction of drying up the times and speeding up the procedures), can generate very effectively a set of good practices through which a significant share of household policies is directed towards the enhancement of public heritage, and not only public, existing, also determining the direction of avoiding the consumption of new soil. I would like to focus on this aspect because at certain moments of this debate it seemed that instead we were faced with a measure that said: 'Mrs, go and build'. It is exactly the opposite: one of the stakes of the draft law that we are about to approve goes precisely in the direction of preventing the use of new soil, of refunctionalizing, enhancing and recovering the existing heritage, also in the sense of optimising the scarce public resources we have. Part of the funds that feed the house policies contained in this measure are recovered from the resources not used for the purposes for which they were allocated, setting in motion a virtuous mechanism. I would like to mention two points, given that this aspect was the subject of a debate which took place first in the Commission and was then brought to the House. The measure under consideration is a measure that contemporates, on the one hand, the need to expand the availability of housing to be allocated to the social lease and the fees agreed and therefore to the policies for the rent and, on the other hand, through the mechanism of redemption, also gives rise to an increase of possibilities for families, in particular those socially disadvantaged, to access the property. I want to stress that this element has been given a representation that seems to encourage a dynamic whereby of the presumed and non-existent new rich, through mechanisms of speculative flavor, access to the property of the house by subtracting a right to the poor. It's not like that. I would like to remind you - this is a consideration that Senator Ranucci made before me - that, where the Constitution in Article 117 encourages housing policies, Article 47 states that the Republic favours access to popular savings to housing ownership. According to an interpretation for which the Constitutional Court states with precision that the direction of popular savings to housing property is precisely aimed at the fact that that type of savings has less possibility of accessing other forms of use such as investment in shares. So, it's a way to protect that saving from directing it to the property of the house. In this draft, it seems to me that the measure, on the other hand, strikes a balance which I believe should be particularly stressed. I believe I must highlight, together with the many things that have been mentioned, the rights that are recognized, eliminating elements of obvious iniquities, to Italian citizens residing abroad and the elderly admitted to structures. Moreover, I do not think I have heard of the very important guarantee of the right of access to the house for women guests of the anti-violence centers, which is another element of great civilization. Another element is the response that one tries to give to those citizens who, paradoxically, having exercised a right recognized by law and having helped to bring out the situations of irregularities, today lie, downstream of a judgment of the Constitutional Court of the beginning of this year, even in the situation of being subject to a dispute that risks placing them - instead they have contributed to the emergence - in a condition of irregularities, of which they risk also paying the penalty. I have briefly mentioned some elements, but the organic framework of this measure I believe is mainly in the capacity, in the meantime, to act on tax levers and tax levers, in order to favour a convergence of interests between the conductors and tenants in determining an extension of the availability of housing to be allocated mainly to the social housing; secondly, in the ability to use the tax lever in a targeted way to produce not only an advantage with virtuous policies aimed at a primary good such as the home, but also to determine quotas for reducing the tax pressure (I say this because before it was mentioned, in my opinion, in a somewhat improper way, the theme of the overall tax pressure). In fact, one of the signs that this measure presents, perhaps to a very surgical extent and dedicated to some categories, is the fact that in the end less taxes will be paid for the house. Among others, those who make the house available for social rentals will pay less taxes. [[Recalls of the President]] Of course, Mr President, you are inviting me to conclude and I am happy to do so, partly because everyone can return to their territories to continue their work. I just want to take back an image that was evoked this morning, that of guano and risotto. I do not know if, in the end, with the approval of this measure, to the many citizens who will find home thanks to these measures we will have offered a dish of risotto or a plate of guano; to taste them we could perhaps, turning to Master Chef, go together and make a verification. Let me say, however, that we certainly put something in the dish, and not the usual demagogic smoke, behind which there is never even a crumb of roast. I think this is a juice worth remembering. [[Applause from the PD Group and ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u49	Senator Borioli, since before the intervention of Senator Manassero took place, for the dressing of risotto I would recommend something that could come from his lands, instead of Senator Scibona's recipe. The general debate is closed. There are five senators who have asked to speak on matters not on the agenda. Therefore, since I have been here since 9.30 a.m., I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u52	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a motion, at my first signature, 1-00192, concerning the mandatory establishment of intramoenia audits, i.e. intramoenia monitoring, at ASLs. Well, yesterday, the Finance Guard denounced several doctors who carried out a bit of a cheerful intramoenia activity. In addition to the motion, at the time we produced a question following an audit drawn up in our competence ASL, which is ASL Roma H: never published, but it showed inefficiencies and a shift of interest towards the private sector. We know that this type of management brings damage of tens of thousands of euros to the state and health and we wonder if we are still in the spending review regime because, if so, the horizontal "cut and sewn" in health is no longer admissible. We of the 5 Star Movement have always believed that it is time to give a definitive stop to political appointments, clientelism and favoritism that are detrimental only to citizens who, in some ASLs, do not really have any more assistance. In our ASL we found blocked waiting lists (and everyone knows that this is not regular), a billing system managed on paper sheets (when a software purchased with public money is available) and a serious abuse of intramural activity. At that time we also received statements of indignation from the ASL leaders, who did not appreciate our intervention in this field. Instead, the investigation now discovers further altars. Instead of cutting health care, we call for control and compliance with existing rules, which would save us. We call for the calendarization of our motion and we commit the Government to issuing measures (these yes urgent, not like all these false reforms) that resize this party-cratic concept of health as a clientele system that by now only draw votes, power and money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u53	Senator Fattori, your representative at the Conference of Leaders certainly has the opportunity to urge the timing of the motion in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u56	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask questions 4-01812 and 4-01488. The first question concerns the reintegration of some workers from Avio General Electric in Pomigliano d'Arco. The peculiarity of that case lies in the fact that, although those workers have been reinstated through a judgment of the court (this is the absurd thing), to date the company has not only not yet reinstated them in the workplace, but has not yet given them a single penny of remuneration for those periods for which the court has found the non-absistence and illegality of the dismissal operated by Avio di Pomigliano d'Arco. I therefore kindly urge the Minister responsible to speak. The second question concerns the citizens of San Giorgio a Cremano, who for years have been waiting for the opening of a motorway junction, as a fundamental infrastructure to facilitate the traffic of one of the municipalities with the highest population density of Campania, and therefore also of Italy. The opening of the junction, in truth, was initially hindered by the presence of some pylons at the center of the roadway: in practice, it was all built, but two pylons remained in the center. Then the trellis were removed, also following the report of the local group of the 5 Star Movement of San Giorgio in Cremano and, in particular, of the councilman of that Municipality Danilo Cascone. We asked the mayor of Naples, the city council member for infrastructure, the manager of the design, realization and maintenance service of roads, to understand what happens, who designed, how ever next to that junction, only after its construction, was given a concession to a fuel supplier. Maybe it's the one that makes sure the junction doesn't open? To date, however, all these questions have been ignored. So, we ask the Ministry to check whether there is any lack of compliance with the law and the criteria of impartiality, economics, effectiveness, efficiency and transparency, specific to the work of local administrators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u59	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, I would like to point out the discomfort of many Piedmontese mountain and hill municipalities, which, as they say, feel on the outskirts of the empire, also as regards the use of RAI services. Many municipalities, faced with 14 RAI channels, can hardly see any of them. I want to bring today the report of a small town that, since April 28, practically has no cover. Citizens who turn on television always see, with great pleasure, the term "absent signal." I would like to point out, therefore, the discomfort, compared to the use of the RAI service in Val Chisone. In particular, I refer to the situation of the Municipality of Roure, of 1,000 inhabitants, located in the territory of the Occitan valleys, and it is very nice and pleasant. When we go on vacation it's also chic not to watch television and does naïf not follow the news. For residents, though, it's a little less fun. At the moment it is possible to see only the channels Rai1, Rai2 and Rai3 and Rai News, against the 14 advertised by Rai herself, and often not even these. I believe that action should be taken, particularly in the face of a public service for which citizens also pay an annual fee. Since digital terrestrial has often happened that even the basic channels are not visible and, in particular, from 28 April to today, the situation is basically of darkness. I have addressed the members of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, who have told me that compared to Piedmont we are close to solving the problem, but that most likely the solution identified will not help to solve the visibility in the West of Piedmont, towards France. In short, I would like to stress that the inconvenience is that we are always generally prepared to support mountain lands, to fill our mouths with support, but then we do not even offer the basic services to avoid depopulation. When a public service is not provided against a fee, the population may feel entitled to reduce or not to pay the fee at all. I am about to put an urgent question on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u60	Thank you, Senator Zanoni. I was able to touch with hand what you mentioned: no signal, but present and mandatory canon, which is not the best.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u63	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in the municipality of Massarosa, in the province of Lucca, administered by the mayor of center-left Franco Mungai supported by the Democratic Party, a participatory society of the Municipality was established for the realization and exploitation of some photovoltaic systems, which, neglecting the application of the rules of the code of contracts, used methods worthy of the worst creative finance. The citizens of Massarosa have not obtained any advantage from the plants built, because through a company transfer between Sermas, company belonging precisely to the Municipality, and Toscana Energia Green, participated in Toscana Energia, the plants have become property of the same Toscana Energia Green, thus subtracting to the citizens of Massarosa the possibility to benefit from the incentives for the production of energy produced from solar panels provided by the GSE, as these municipal plants have monopolized the entire quota available at the moment. It also appears that all the supplies necessary for the construction of the structures were entrusted directly and without a tender from Sermas to Tuscany Energy Green, although the figures at stake (4 and a half million) were well above the legal limit. The whole operation caused a debt: in fact the company Sermas has exposed itself with Tuscany Energy Green for over 7 and a half million euros, producing debts instead of kilowatts. To compensate for this shortage, the Municipality of Massarosa has sold directly the plants to Tuscany Energia instead of looking for the best bidder, as common sense and standards would prescribe. The result was that what should have provided an ecological and economic advantage to the community became a cost to the community and a deal for Tuscany Energy, also thanks to these untransparent procedures. So, once again, public resources are being used, but profits are for the benefit of a few. We of the 5 Star Movement have been urged by the activists of the city of Massarosa, who signal us with diligence the anomalies of the territory, asking transparency. Therefore, we hope that the judiciary will carry out an appropriate investigation of any responsibilities in order to identify those who have committed errors or omissions, so that the data can emerge and any administrative or criminal offences can be brought to light. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u66	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly to remind you of just one fact, and I am pleased that you are chairing this sitting, because of the autonomous culture which, to some extent, makes it close to my region which, from this point of view, has ancient history. Sonego (PD). President, there is cause for concern for this appreciation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There will be a reason for appreciation. URAS (Misto-SEL). In a Chamber where appreciation is somewhat avoided, and sometimes even instrumentally avoided, it seems to me to be something that needs to be done. I am talking about the natural disaster that struck Sardinia in November 2013, which unfortunately caused twenty victims, devastated the territory, destructured the internal transport system, of internal traffic; in short, damage for almost a billion euros. The only rule that exists and is currently in force, Mr President, can be found in the law of stability, in which almost nothing is in fact allocated, because it refers to stocks that must be verified in their existence and that we are unable to verify. I asked today to see if the Senate Studies Service was in a position to verify the appropriations. They tell me that for three to four months the government has not made available in a usable way the databases where the covers occur. I wonder how we can carry out the ritual examination that the Budget Commission is called upon to carry out on the measures under Article 81 of the Constitution. Afterwards we presented a very reductive provision from the point of view of the planned interventions, in a bill presented by Senator Zanda and other senators who collected some provisions concerning Sardinia also in one of the provisions save Rome, then declared inadmissible by the President of the Senate. That measure, which is very reductive in relation to the interventions envisaged, was approved by the Commission in its deliberations and lies in the Chamber without being examined, and we are now in May. It is one of the most embarrassing institutional jokes that Government, majority and Parliament make towards a weak region: weak politically in relation to the ability to dispute against the State and the Government, weak also because offended by a heavy crisis and misfortunes like this. Mr President, I would like to use your appreciation to ask you for a commitment to ensure that this matter has a different focus than what you have so far deserved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u67	Senator Uras, I assure you of this commitment because I am extremely concerned, as well as for the specific case, about all cases in which the Study Service must verify the coverage of the decree-laws and all the measures that pass through the Budget Commission, if it does not have the possibility to access the data. I am also concerned about the provision in the House and even more about a colleague who, in a television show, the other night, called the Senate a crapper, a crappy crapper. Maybe if they devote themselves a little more to work it's a little less on television and attacking the Senate would be better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-243.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.46 p.m.
