ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) on issues relating to agricultural entrepreneurship initiatives and measures against fraud and criminal infiltration in agriculture, to which the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, will respond. I'm communicating that RAI's live TV is underway. Let us now turn to questions on initiatives for youth farming entrepreneurship. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u6	BERTUZZI (PD). Madam President, welcome to our Minister. The time is very short, so I will try to go for titles. We have agreed that the issue of competitiveness is the challenge that you, together with us, will face in these months and in the coming months. With regard to competitiveness we have recognised that our companies are made up of a mix of knowledge, know-how and creativity in ideas: what has failed is the internal demand for our products, also determined by a decrease in consumption which shows that, in our internal market, what we are able to produce today will no longer be able to be relocated. Minister, I quote two extraordinary figures from these two years: the export of groceries at 33 billion, the Italian soiling, i.e. counterfeit goods, at 60 billion. There is a prairie for our goods: we are aware, however, that there are weaknesses in our offering and in the way we place ourselves. The weaknesses stem from too small a size of companies and the inability, therefore, to reach international markets for them. So today is the time for the turning point, and at this turning point we must concentrate energies and resources on precise choices, which must go to meet these structural limitations: therefore, aggregation of enterprise and internationalization must be the action on which its Government focuses. Without appropriate action in the area of simplification and public administration, this will be all in vain; the same applies to the issue of generational replacement. There is no strategy in agriculture that can ignore the generational shift. The theme is therefore that of generational replacement, access to land and access to credit.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u9	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I will be very quick, because Mrs Bertuzzi has already raised the matter. On competitiveness, what are we going to do at a time when young people are approaching agriculture again, when we have the boom of members of agricultural schools and agricultural faculties? How do we intend to push and support them, indeed, at a crucial time when some 100,000 farms have closed down anyway? It is a particular moment, and the effort must be total, considering that agriculture in Italy has always been a primary source in the decades immediately after the war. Perhaps some wrong policies and agreements in Europe have also penalised her. The question is: how does this Government put itself to help agriculture and, mainly, young people entering agriculture? What will be done with regard to counterfeiting and food security? The Food Safety Authority, which should have been ready for seven years, is not being discussed. It always goes on and then, if anything, we create an authority a year, useless and stupid. Maybe that's because someone is not happy where this Food Safety Authority should be, forgetting that with counterfeiting, as Mr Bertuzzi rightly said, we lose 60 billion. Moreover, for seven years we have been waiting for a decree from the Ministry on labelling: we wonder why it is not there, which manager blocks it and why. Why do you have to force a Senator of the Republic to denounce leaders of the Ministries of Agriculture or Economics and Finance? There are names and surnames, and then we'll do them, because people don't know if the Minister does politics and if there's someone who destroys everything. That's the real thing. I would like to ask the Government what its action will be and how it will move. I hope there are clear words, because if we lose this challenge too, we will no longer be able to overcome the challenge in agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u12	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, Minister, I am referring in some way to Senator Tarquinio's question, but I will be more specific. Article 7 of European Regulation No 1305 of 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development provides for the possibility for Member States to include thematic sub-programmes meeting specific needs in rural development programmes. These sub-programmes also include the one dedicated to young farmers, including support for the start-up of their business activities for investments in tangible fixed assets and non-agricultural activities, the transfer of knowledge and actions, information, advisory services for agricultural holdings and forms of cooperation between farms. So, there is legislation. We, as the 5 Star Movement, at the time have promoted two different draft laws, presented to the House of Deputies, on the promotion of social agriculture, which can be a driving force for new employment especially for young people, given the staggering figures of youth unemployment, which rose to 42.3% in February. In particular, our draft law provides for the possibility of renting out at least 25% of farm property to young farmers. I therefore ask you very specifically whether, in drawing up the National Rural Development Plan in view of the 2014-2020 multiannual financing programme (the latest news of which unfortunately date back to 16 January, with the agreements reached at the State-Regions Conference for the allocation of resources, and the fate of which there was then total silence), it intends to include a specific sub-programme for young farmers. I would also like to ask you, in particular, whether you intend to envisage forms of social farming and the leasing of state-owned agricultural land for those who decide to start farming, as is already being successfully experimented in some Italian regions. I wonder if it can be done at national level and, if so, when.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u15	FORMIGONI (NCD). Minister, I am referring to the recently published ISMEA business report, which I found valuable for the knowledge contributions it offers, but which also presents data that I consider to be worrying about access to credit for agricultural enterprises in 2013. We are talking about a reduction in payments to Italian companies by 21%, an absolutely significant figure, which becomes even higher - exactly 34% - if we look at the regions of the North-West and the major islands. I therefore believe, Minister, that specific measures are needed from you and the Government to improve access to credit, which, as we know, is a source of suffering for all Italian productive sectors, but also specifically for agriculture. Our young farmers must be encouraged, even with concrete tools, as well as the development of Made in Italy abroad. I expect you to give some indication of the government's direction in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u18	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Minister, public policies in support of agriculture and its entrepreneurs are, as is well known, entirely based on the rules - I dare say, of course - and on the resources of the European Union, with national action which is limited exclusively to co-financing and to a very modest action of choice, accompanied by a historical fragility of negotiation, which sees our country as not proactive in relation to the positions of the Commission. Unfortunately, the new CAP, in this sense, is a sad confirmation of this: there are absolutely no system policies that, apart from incentives to individuals, determine the structural conditions for our agricultural enterprises to be able to compete, even if they have numbers and quality on the international market. Thus, a heritage of excellence - if I think only of the 264 certified quality systems, for which we are the first in Europe, or of the primacy of agricultural biodiversity - capable of being uncyclical in the current recessive phase is left behind, although with a total protection of the agricultural, forestry and fisheries industry, of 52 billion euros and a remarkable added value of 28 billion euros. This becomes even more important now, with a reform of the first pillar of the CAP, which will significantly reduce direct payments to businesses, especially in the Mezzogiorno, and for certain types of crops, such as olive trees, with obvious consequences on the fabric. Then I ask you what initiatives this Government wants to put on the field - beyond the windows that are too flagrant, like EXPO 2015, which, in my opinion, risk increasingly resembling Mussolini's cardboard planes, and net of the dismantling of the ICE, but also of the inexplicable desire to abolish the INEA - so that the more than 1.620,000 Italian agricultural companies can continue in their business and therefore plan investments for the future, creating wealth and employment, beyond the more than 850,000 current employees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u21	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, the issue of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture is certainly a priority issue, which draws the attention not only of Parliament but also of Europe. Aid for young people is needed to avoid desertification of the countryside. The future generation of agro-entrepreneurs must not fail, as they are more important than ever in the management of the territory. There are many opportunities in the countryside, especially for the new generations, which policy must continue to encourage. In the last year, it was precisely young people who contributed more significantly to the growth of employment in agriculture, as people under 35 have increased by 5.1 percent. However, an acceleration is needed, in view of the fact that more than one third of farmers are now over 65 years old, while under 35 entrepreneurs do not reach 10%. Agricultural enterprises, if they are in a position to do so, can offer practical and valuable opportunities and opportunities, especially for young people. We therefore ask the Minister what he intends to do with his Dicastery in order to facilitate the introduction of a substitute tax on the income of businesses and their additional taxes in favour of young farmers and, above all, for the administrative simplification of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u24	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to welcome you to the Senate. At the hearing at the Committee on Agriculture and Agri-food Production in the Senate, the Minister was able to recognise an agriculture producing public goods, and then pointed out the Government's intention to use the funds of the new Community agricultural policy to support mountain agriculture and disadvantaged rural areas. I therefore ask you with what measures the Government intends to take to protect and support the maintenance of milk production in mountain areas after the cessation of the quota regime, starting from 1 April 2015, and the failure to activate direct payments to disadvantaged areas. In particular, I ask you whether the Government, within the EUR 500 million currently foreseen for coupled support, does not consider it necessary and necessary to grant a coupled payment to dairy farms located in mountain areas, guaranteeing a minimum necessary of EUR 100 per cow, in order to give a minimum of survival foundation to these farms. I would also ask the Minister whether it is not appropriate, always for small businesses, to amplify the use of vouchers, including extending them to categories of workers other than students on holiday, pensioners and recipients of income support. Finally, I would like to know whether you do not think that you need to simplify the safety rules for smaller companies, which employ only seasonal employees and for a few days a year. We are talking about companies employing very few employees, for not even a dozen days, which today have to undergo three different safety courses and, in the case of vouchers, they can find themselves having to deal with collection operations at the last moment without being able to find the necessary manpower, providing for the necessary bureaucratic practices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u27	RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, Minister, I believe that the delegation law represents a great opportunity for us, in the face of the country and the farmers in particular. It is in fact an instrument that could revolutionize and restructure the entire Italian agricultural system. This has already been pointed out by my previous colleagues: we all know that agriculture is in great difficulty and must be supported. It can no longer be the Cinderella of the country, but it must become one of the important and fundamental pillars of our economy. I would therefore ask the Minister if he does not think it appropriate, with regard to the reduction in social security costs - for which we have the highest cost in Europe - to intervene by leveling them at least on a European basis. The second question I want to raise concerns the reduction of costs: those for fuels and fertilisers are now stifling our companies, not to mention the costs of access to credit. What tools does the Government intend to propose to meet the real needs of this sector? Agricultural credit - I still call it that, and I hope not to be archaic - is the engine, on the contrary, the only petrol that can move the engine of agriculture. I therefore ask the Minister what commitment the Government intends to make here. Last but not least, I propose the issue of support for youth entrepreneurship. Many times we have dealt with this issue in the Commission, together with colleagues, but there has been no concrete response. Do we want to start with the delegation law to understand what can really be done about youth entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u30	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, Minister, you have the potential to lead a Ministry that represents one of those few categories of enterprises that, even at such a difficult time of crisis, manage to give our country positive numbers, even in the difficulty in which it is operating. However, in our business system, even in the light of the hearings we had in the Senate Committee on Agriculture, we have been able to verify a kind of paradox. That is what I would like to ask you about in order to understand what measures the Government intends to take. I quote only two which can be indicative. As far as the first question is concerned, we have very great difficulties in terms of employment. The young people have addressed themselves, as it is right that it should be, in an agricultural sector, which is in full development. Yet we have such a cumbersome bureaucratic system that it discourages, most of the time, the possibility of promoting enterprise in this sector. Many agencies are involved in the agricultural sector. What does the Ministry intend to do to make it easier for young people to undertake this activity? Let me turn to the second question. There is a difficulty, which has been highlighted in the previous speeches: I am referring to the difficulty of access to credit. Yet, very often, the regions fail to fully spend the money that is given to them by the European Union to stimulate the sector. What does the government intend to do to resolve these discrasies? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for the questions they have asked and I hope that, in the time available, I will be able to answer all the questions. Obviously I start from an absolutely shared and shared premise: we are faced with interventions related to a strategic sector for the country. Suffice it to mention the above: agri-food as a whole today accounts for 17 to 18 percent of Italian GDP. It is, therefore, a very substantial part of the real economy. First of all, I think it is appropriate to draw attention to the commitment that all of us can make in relation to the draft law linked to the public finance maneuver, which is currently being examined by the Committee on Agriculture here in the Senate, because it contains important measures to promote the development of competitiveness in the agricultural sector, which, with the fundamental contribution of the debate that we can have in Parliament, can improve, refine and implement, not excluding, in my opinion, however, also urgent action to ensure the timely implementation of measures which, in our view, are necessary for the prompt relaunch of the agri-food sector. In particular, I would like to mention the measure of the tax credit, envisaged in the related one for the creation of distribution platforms abroad of products made in Italy; the interventions for the development of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture; the increase of resources to finance the technological innovation of agricultural enterprises participating, in particular, in network contracts and the access of these enterprises to European funding (which are now complicated); the reduction to a third of the time limits for administrative procedures relating to the opening of new agricultural enterprises; the possibility for local authorities and health institutions to establish specialised and specific calls for proposals for social agriculture and short supply chains; the delegation to align national law with Community guidelines on risk management (which is absolutely crucial for us). With regard to the implementation of the National Rural Development Plan, I would like to point out that it can only contain actions that cannot be repeated at regional level. For this reason, it will focus mainly on measures to facilitate insurance against natural disasters and animal diseases, the establishment of irrigation infrastructures of national importance and the protection of animal biodiversity. With regard to questions relating to mountain areas, I would like to remind you that during my recent hearing I presented a programme plan, a choice, an orientation, according to which the territory should in some way be distinguished in two major areas of intervention: the areas or sectors where agriculture produces mainly public goods (especially the case of mountain areas); the areas or sectors where agriculture produces mainly for the market. Of course, the policies and choices to be taken, depending on which agriculture to give priority to, are quite different. In this sense, it is the Government's intention to take into account the peculiarities and the particular situation of the farms located in mountainous and disadvantaged territory, where, that is, agriculture is fundamental for the conservation of the landscape, the hydrogeological defense and, more generally, the maintenance of a vital socio-economic fabric. This will be taken into account at the stage of modulation of coupled payments, in particular for the milk and beef sector. With regard to the cessation of the milk quota system, we have already represented to the Commission the need to pay particular attention to the management of the end of quotas in 2015, particularly in mountain areas. In any case, I would like to remind you that we have already started a discussion with the Ministry with the entire dairy sector in order to anticipate and define the exit from the quota regime in 2015. With reference to the Partnership Agreement on the programming of European funds for the period 2014-2020, in pointing out positively that the Senate Agriculture Commission yesterday approved favourable comments on the text, I would just point out that the document under discussion was the result of consultation between the central administrations, the regions and the economic and social partnership; in my opinion, the indications contained are very useful and valuable. In the logic of coordinating the funds, however, it must be stressed that there is a need for adequate integration between policies in order to make interventions more effective. A crucial theme for myself is also that of young people. With regard to measures specifically aimed at promoting the development of youth entrepreneurship, I would like to mention the commitment made just a few days ago, before the Senate Agriculture Committee and then the House Committee. In that context, I have had the opportunity to point out that one of the pillars of government action will be to increase the level of competitiveness of the agricultural sector, promoting the dimensional growth of enterprises, their integration (very expensive theme), administrative simplification, the increase in employment and the youth issue, that is, the youth issue that obviously interests us so much, in the dual dynamics of employment and youth entrepreneurship to be supported, because in Italy we have rates still too low compared to the European average. In order to achieve this goal, we have started to work. It is my firm intention to implement the positive rules already introduced by the previous Government. I am referring, in particular, to the allocation of state property to young farmers, pointing out that we have set in motion the procedures for implementing the rules laid down in the 2014 Stability Act, calling for the establishment of the list of accessible agricultural land. In addition, we have proposed a reform of incentives for young farmers in the bill linked to the Stability Act, now under consideration by the 9th Senate Commission. In addition, the major novelty of the provisions is the possibility of extending the benefits also to the financing of projects for the development of young entrepreneurs already in operation, and not only in the case of takeovers. In this way, we will promote not only generational change but also business continuity as much as possible. New opportunities for action are also offered to us by future rural development programmes. As part of the reform of direct payments, Member States will also be able to allocate up to 2% of their national ceiling to young farmers as from 2015 to increase the value of the securities held by 25%. This is a potential for Italy of around €75 million a year that we can allocate and choose to place on the very front of support for youth entrepreneurship in agriculture. It's not cheap. However, account should be taken of the effects of these choices and of the effects on the mobilisation of new holdings resulting from other choices to be made with regard to the common agricultural policy, such as the inclusion in the system of direct payments of some 2 million new hectares of agricultural land. I would like to reiterate here the Government's commitment to the reform of Community rules on State aid, in particular those which today allow the purchase of agricultural land only within the framework of a larger investment project and within 10% of the total value of the investment itself. During the bilateral meeting on 24 March, I raised the question and asked Commissioner Ciolos to overcome this restriction, at least in cases where the beneficiary is represented by a young farmer. The best solution would be to reactivate the aid scheme which expired at the end of 2009, in the context of which agricultural land could be financed up to 40% of the project value. In the context of the work measures recently proposed by the Government, it is important, in my opinion, to give a strong signal also on the agricultural and agri-food fronts, in particular, on some fronts, certainly favouring: the mechanisms encouraging the recruitment of young people in the agricultural field; the contracts of integration and apprenticeship to be extended and adapted to the peculiarities of the national collective agreements in the field; measures for the stabilization of agricultural employment, introducing a system of incentives and sanctions that increases the affordability towards forms of hiring indefinitely; the extension of the reduction of the tax wedge to stable agricultural employment relationships; a tax credit on the costs incurred by young farmers for the rent of agricultural land. With regard to access to credit, the other front of great interest for all of us, the phenomenon of credit restriction has unfortunately affected all economic sectors, including agriculture (you yourself have mentioned absolutely true elements). On the point, in any case, the Ministry has not only prepared specific intervention tools already working, but has ready additional tools that can contribute to the support of access to credit in agriculture, especially for young people. In essence, there are three most important issues: better guarantees for farmers that are financed; greater liquidity for banks; capitalization of agricultural enterprises. As regards guarantees, the ISMEA guarantee fund at first request is giving concrete answers. In these years of falling access to credit, the fund has grown, in contrast to the trend, which, in my opinion, confirms its usefulness. We are talking in 2013 alone of a 21 percent. On the liquidity front, the ISMEA credit fund is on its way, the operation of which will enable banks to benefit from a soft loan of 50% of the investment needs of agricultural companies. Capitalising businesses also means making them stronger for better access to the credit and capital market. A fund to provide venture capital to companies has recently been launched by ISMEA. On the three issues (guarantees, liquidity and capitalization), the Ministry will launch a table with ABI to increase banks' participation in agricultural and agri-food support. I think I have to finish. I'm sorry I can't answer the other questions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've already been granted three more minutes, Minister. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u34	RUTA (PD). Madam President, Minister, the Group of the Party of European Socialists shares the views expressed by Mr Martina. The direction of travel is fair, thoughtful and ambitious. The objective is clear: to give immediate strength to the primary agro-food sector in order to convince our children to be protagonists of the strengthening of the Made in Italy agri-food, that can drive the export focusing on quality and biodiversity, aggregation, supply chains and internationalization, innovation and research. How? With an extraordinary action plan to facilitate access to credit, land, tax credit, with the timely use of the measures of the new CAP, including those for the so-called purchase of the first hectares, as well as with 2% (€75 million per year) for entrepreneurial activities promoted by young people. Finally, making the law related to stability the first unitary, innovative and reforming law of Italian agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u37	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, you may not have had time to answer the very important questions about labelling and the Food Safety Authority. I would like to say that I am dissatisfied, but since you have been in this position for a short time, I have not done so. But I expect actions, not so much rhetoric, so many speeches. I hope that you will be active, deal with the real problems and overcome the bureaucracy in your ministry as well. You are talking about a man who has been political for a long time, and therefore I do not wage war on bureaucracy in general: I do it when bureaucracy is what it is. However, I would like clear answers, not misunderstandings. We're all good at beating hands. I hope you will listen to her in a few months' time to thank her for what she has done, beyond my political position. There's no problem. I hope he does. In three months I will attack it, with grace and with the education that belongs to my political history. I hope, however, that it will be effective, capable of overcoming bureaucracy, because even in what it has read there is the hand of an aseptic bureaucracy, without emphasis, of heart, that has no breath or soul. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Scilipoti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u40	FACTORS (M5S). Mr. Minister, I also find myself dissatisfied. A lot of general talk, but few facts. Good for up to 2% of direct payments to youth entrepreneurship, but the Minister has not responded to the National Rural Development Plan. I wanted to see if there is a much wider programme for young people, because that is perhaps the second pillar and the real challenge of our CAP. Good for mapping state property land. However, we would like to have certain times and a deadline on when this will be done. In fact, in this parliamentary term, we already audit two ministers and the plans are all beautiful, but when they have to be implemented they all fall into the void. We therefore expect concrete answers, after these very general speeches. As far as the partnership agreement is concerned, I do not share the enthusiasm, as the European Commission has made 351 comments and everything has to be done again, and so all this exhilarating perhaps would prevent it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u43	FORMIGONI (NCD). I thank the Minister for the overall answers, which I find full of awareness of the problems that Italian agriculture is facing today. Among other things, with the Minister, in the Commission that I have the honour of chairing, we have started a very good collaboration, and this is a very important signal of how this Government and the Senate want to tackle, with many measures and acts and the minimum necessary words, the problems we face before us. I urge the Minister - but I am sure that this is his will, and he has expressed it in his reply - to follow with great attention the issues we have mentioned: Italian agricultural companies, generational renewal, internationalization of markets, and the sensitive issue of access to credit, which very often constitutes the real stranglehold with which the new forces that want to approach agriculture must impact. I am sure that joint action will lead to positive results.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u46	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Minister, I too share the concerns of Senator Tarquinio, with the regret that I cannot declare myself satisfied. On the other hand, from the reading of the Minister's statements, I take a reproposing of the announcements already heard in the Commission in the course of the programmatic statements, perhaps a sign of a hand too heavy of the bureaucratic levels. On these occasions - and I conclude - I would like to try to give guidance on the instruments, not just on the general objectives. We have talked many times about the general objectives, but can we imagine access to credit facilitated by the action of ISMEA, which we have seen consume in recent years instruments that are not necessary or sufficient to respond to the needs that the system manifests? For these reasons, I am dissatisfied with the Minister's reply and hope for a change of pace in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u49	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have heard from the Minister that there are ambitious, important projects, projects that could theoretically also relaunch the agricultural sector. As we have said before and as other Members have also said, at the moment it has an extremely important need for attention, which seems to be coming from this Minister. The great hope is that your plans and hopes, Minister, can be realized and not also fall within the great carriage of promises - alas - of our President-in-Office of the Council's carnivals.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u52	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions I have also asked on behalf of my colleague, Mr Berger, with whom I have formulated them, and for the sensitivity he has shown, above all, with regard to aid to mountain farmers. The other two points I raised, to which you, Minister, had no time or opportunity to answer, highlight another problem that we have, that of bureaucracy for small companies, which - I assure you - is the worst enemy of their survival today. I would point out that we are talking about heroic companies that can live, survive, in very difficult conditions. I would ask you, therefore, especially with regard to the employment of work, to be able to find just and elastic forms, because the sector most unpredictable and most subject to variability is strangely the most cast. For a few days, we can think of using workers who already work and are enrolled in a compulsory form of social security. We are always talking about a few days, which could, however, be a useful form of income integration. The same applies to security courses. Small businesses are in real danger of disappearing. I remember that part of the Italian mountain has already had this effect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u55	RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, in principle I could also be satisfied with the issues that you, Minister, have put on the table. In terms of practicality, however, I am much less satisfied with the series of statements of principle he has made. I am partially satisfied with this, because the first reasoning made in my introduction is very much expected from the delegation law in the near future. On the issue of credit, I would like to point out, Minister, that the system you have put forward, ISMEA, with the guarantees you have given, apart from the important work you have done on the agricultural sector, has not worked: ISMEA gave and gave the guarantees to give direct access to banks to farmers, but banks regularly do not give credit. That is the nodal point, the important issue to be resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u58	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, I wanted to give you the good news that you did not speak, but I cannot do so because the criticism of the Minister appeared to me a little too generous. I am well aware of the hearing we had with him in the Committee on Agriculture and I would say that too little time has passed to give responsibility to those who lead this sector. I believe that it takes some time to understand whether the prospects that have been listed to us, both in the Commission and in the answers given today, really indicate the path that we hope will lead to concrete results in a sector that is perhaps one of the emblems of Made in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u59	Let us now turn to questions concerning measures against fraud and criminal infiltration into agriculture, which will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Dr Martina. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u62	SCALIA (PD). Minister, in a 2013 characterized for Italy by an economy in recession, the only sector that has recorded a formidable growth was agromafie, with 12 percent more than in 2011, according to the Eurispes surveys, and 14 billion turnover in 2013. There are estimated to be at least 5,000 catering establishments run by organised crime; food fraud is rampant, and last year one in five Italians was the victim. There is a real strategy for grabbing agricultural land. In 2012, one of four real estate confiscated from organized crime was agricultural land. Moreover, to the ancient phenomenon of Italian soiling, the marketing abroad of foreign products with the use of evocative brands of Italy, has been added the phenomenon of Italian laundering, the acquisition of Italian brands to market even in Italy products that of Italian have nothing. All this harms our economy, the image of our country and our agriculture. A given creed photographers in a plastic and dramatic way the effects of this situation: out of 100 euros produced by the food chain, in the last ten years the income share of Italian farmers has collapsed from 7.6 euros to 1.5 euros. I ask you, Minister, what initiatives the Government intends to take to combat this phenomenon and how it intends to identify and promote the quality Italian product in the world. There is something in the bill related to the law of stability, but I think it is largely insufficient. Also, when are the implementing decrees of the traceability law, which we have been waiting for for three years? I am well aware that there are difficulties of compatibility with Community law, at least with a prevailing interpretation of principles in this area. I believe that we must change in Europe on this too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u65	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, we have indirectly said this before: at a time when the Food Safety Authority continues to be unanswered and labelling has been there for seven years, what are we talking about? There are clear and serious responsibilities for the structures of the Ministry and those of other Ministries. That's very clear. Because the infiltrations of crime and more come from this: we allow this to happen; we allow other foreign countries to use Italian products, but they cannot do it because they are not Italian products. To whom do we give this responsibility? Who do we want to give it to? To ourselves, perhaps? Maybe, but I have to give it to the structures first, because there are no answers. There are answers to limit the phenomenon, but nothing is done. It promotes crime. The answers to limit the phenomenon would even create employment and certainty of what Italians consume first, but nothing is done. Minister, please intervene. I hope that in two months you will come and say something concrete. I wish him every success as an Italian citizen, on behalf of all Italian citizens. So far, for years, they've only been chatting, and then we hear these speeches, about the damage, about the businesses that close, and 5,000 companies are mafias.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u68	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, Minister, Italy is the European country with the greatest number of controls to protect our products and buyers. There are many controlling bodies, and among the many I would like to remember the Institute of Quality Control of the Ministry, the Agecontrol, the local health companies, the Nuclei antisophistication of the carabinieri, the Guardia di Finanza, the Experimental Zooprofilative Institute, the Experimental Corps, the Maritime Health Offices, and I could continue. The related draft law also refers to simplification, however, somewhat vaguely. And, at this point, I ask you how you intend to make an operational impact on simplification: by favouring the reduction of institutions, or greater coordination between them, or by intervening on control procedures? I would also like to ask you how you intend to move in Europe: working on the side of repression, which, in order to be practical, must have that comprehensive labelling that has been mentioned before, or also on the promotion of quality?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u71	FORMIGONI (NCD). Madam President, Minister, I too would like to draw your attention and ask for an answer on the very sensitive subject of controls, which are one of the instruments, perhaps the main one, which the State has at its disposal to take preventive and repressive action against all those who want to upset and use for their benefit the work of our farmers and our producers. We know, however, that the issue of controls is a double-edged blade: on the one hand it serves to prevent and prosecute abusers and criminals, on the other too often, especially in our country, controls are experienced as something oppressive, excessive and invasive by honest entrepreneurs and honest operators that are seen blocked every day by duplications, complications, which make their working lives even more difficult and more complex. This is a very important issue, Minister, and I would ask you to be able to give me some indication of the direction and direction in which you intend to direct the Ministry's work in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u74	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Minister, I do not refer to the numbers, which have already been mentioned in the questions put by my colleagues before me. The circulation of food that evokes an Italian origin and an Italian invoice that, however, does not possess any damage. On several occasions our country has adopted specific legislative measures to combat the phenomenon of counterfeiting, but in fact these legislative instruments have never been applied. I can quote Article 4, paragraph 49 of the 2004 Finance Act, or even Law No 9 of 2013 on the quality and transparency of the olive oil chain, which has been identified, perhaps too superficially, as the solution of problems relating to extra virgin olive oil. Given that one of the government priorities announced by President Renzi is precisely the fight against counterfeiting, I ask you what initiatives the Minister intends to propose by abandoning the way of passing laws in Italy that cannot be applied in Europe, to make these national norms and intentions compatible with the European context; I also ask you what directives you intend to give to the bodies responsible for combating counterfeiting in order to give concrete implementation to the laws in force. It is true that there are and there are also many controls, but very often, as we know, they come down and are particularly violent on those who operate in legality. Everything else escapes a control machine that we know is of significant scope.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u77	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, counterfeiting at the table, given to the hand, is the most feared by Italians: about 60% of Italians consider it more serious than tax fraud and financial scandals. The data tell us that food counterfeiting in Italy is worth about a billion euros, 60 billion euros if we consider all those products that are sold in the world and are sold as Italians: a huge amount. Food fraud, in our opinion, is a hateful crime because it is based on two elements: on the one hand on the reduced spending capacity of Italian families and, on the other, on the ignorance of all those foreigners who buy pseudo-Italian products thinking of eating Italian. PDO and PGI products that are massacred by counterfeits and agromafie. I will give some examples, to be more concrete: bell buffalo mozzarella, which has been waiting for the name PDO since 1996; concentrated tomatoes, with a +174 percent of counterfeit, which comes practically all from China; Piedmont truffle, which suffers counterfeiting from Africa and Albania; pseudo-gulets of Sicily, which come from America and South Africa; taroccan mushrooms, which come from all over the world and are sold as Italians. And then, I remember that 74 percent of the seizures carried out in 2012 by the Finance Guard involved clones of olive oil, not to mention the Grana Padano and Parmesan that come from Denmark and the United States and, even worse, the raw ham Parma or San Daniele that very often comes from Germany. In all this, what we are asking is where Europe is, the famous Europe of which we are all filling our mouths, which should help our agro-food sector and instead massacres us by opening the doors to Burma's rice (I come from Pavia and think of the agri-food companies and the Pavia rice fields that will be massacred). We therefore ask how your Ministry intends to proceed in order to make the fight against food fraud and control more effective in order to combat the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u80	RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for giving us the opportunity to talk about a very topical issue, which puts our country in great fibrillation. Talking about agromafie means taking serious action; it means giving concrete and immediate answers and actually understanding the tools to counter them. What happens in our country? With the crisis, scams are increasing: one in five Italians is the victim of food fraud, and the health of consumers and Italians is at stake. This aspect must be very clear, it must be the starting point of a strong action of contrast by the Government. The Mafia and all the criminal organizations that have found this new strand must be absolutely opposed by the Government, even in Europe. Those who preceded me said that the battle is won or lost in Europe. The labelling of our products and made in Italy must be certified in Brussels and Europe, otherwise we will also fail for Europe on these issues. Agromafia stifles companies for a very simple reason: having no access to credit and not finding other possibilities, companies sell directly or indirectly. I am not saying this because you, Minister, know this better than I do. We must avoid this noose that is tightened day after day to the agricultural enterprises, and oppose a very strong action of contrast.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u83	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, Minister, as you will have noticed, also thanks to the data provided earlier by Mr Scalia, if the evidence of nine were necessary, crime always goes where there are growing interests and, therefore, has recently devoted itself to the agro-food sector. I'm just gonna ask you one thing, and I'm gonna make you a proposal. I don't want to deal with sophistication, which also concerns a very important sector. As far as the possibility of rebirth in the South is concerned, I believe that greater attention should be paid, precisely in this area, to what is happening in those territories where organised crime is also infiltrated through working methods. I am thinking, for example, of the caporalate, the trafficking of human beings and, above all, of one of the most annoying things for safety and public health. I am referring to the disposal of special waste, which often irreversibly pollute our territories. Having said that, I would like to use the fact that I am a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission to tell you that we have verified that there is a great deal of difficulty, especially in confiscating property that concerns agricultural holdings. The proposal I make to the Minister is to use structures that are so important that they cannot normally be followed by judicial commissioners such as, for example, agricultural schools. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u84	Madam President, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been asked and which, in my opinion, are central to the initiative that we must take as institutions and as government. I start from this consideration, first of all, with regard to agro-mafia and the repression of a very complex and very penetrating phenomenon in its own new terms, including in the agricultural and agri-food sectors. Effective protection and strengthening of the protection systems, also because of this new phenomenon, go first of all through a revision of the control system, which is often effective but is complicated and vexatory. In my opinion, a significant part of the problem is lurking within this dynamic. Our controls are a strong tool for defending new forms of increasingly organised and complex fraud, often even technologically very advanced. We can say, with absolute tranquility, that over the years we have organized a very effective control system. We are working on a number of bodies, and we must set ourselves the objective of simplifying them, but it is true that we are carrying out very significant control rates on our supply chains and on our agri-food sector. If I think of the central quality assurance inspectorate, we carry out 43% of the national annual controls and 11% of the total. In 2013 alone, over 5,000 administrative offences were found (more than 300 criminal offences). In recent years, it has been the action of the State Forestry Corps, which in my opinion has acted in an effective and widespread way, both in contrast to the phenomenon of agromafias and criminal aspects, and on the side of the territorial garrison. Personally, I believe that we need to act on a two-fold front: on the one hand, to make the system of controls easier, more streamlined and more simplified in order to avoid making life difficult for companies. In this regard, I also respond to the second issue that has been put: the need to simplify, rationalise, coordinate the bodies and make administrative actions even easier. As we also said at the hearing, I think that there are some interesting starting points in the link. I would insist that, for the first time, the single register of controls should be set up and that a great deal of work should be done on the computerization of so many administrative or bureaucratic processes that companies must carry out, dematerialising and simplifying as much as possible. Then, a new theme, which I put to your attention and which for me is decisive more than so many arguments that I too can make, is to work for an enlargement of the instrument of caution. In many sectors, very concretely, there are spaces to do an effective job on the side of the enterprise, such as widening the instrument of the caution in order to help the enterprise in the need to correspond to a series of evaluations and to update its instrumentation. All this, of course, without weakening the effectiveness of controls. On this I must remember that Italy is also a school in Europe and in the world. Just think that, with the instrument of the former office, we went to get fake Italian oil in England, directly activating our instruments. And much more we can do. We certainly have some very crucial matches on the European and international side of the debate. I am referring to the trade and international agreements that Europe is negotiating. We have Canada defined. We need to seriously discuss how the game will end with the United States of America, and other big issues. I am thinking of Japan, and not only: there we measure the crucial part of the defence of true Made in Italy, about bilaterals that make the difference because they also improve the access tools of our real Italian products on those markets. I would stress that we are the only ones who have put the issue of protecting the properties of top-level Internet domains in Europe: there is an agro-piracy that also settles within these new dynamics, and we are the only ones who have recently put in Europe the need for greater coordination, for a united Europe position on this front. I would stress that we are the only ones who have put the issue of zero-duty rice and the need for European productions, particularly Italian ones, to be supported and protected in the face of a completely new phenomenon: Second and third-party countries, which over the years have been able to enjoy zero duties in the engagement of European markets, have today completely disoriented European production. We are the only ones who have put this issue in Europe, organizing a system of alliances - fortunately - with other European countries (Spain, Greece, and more) that have helped us and are also supporting us recently. I think I can tell you that we're on the field. Of course, the issue of labelling is crucial; there is a European debate that is not simple. I am in favour of Italy always putting itself on the most advanced point in this debate; we can also take advantage of the new provisions on the indication of the country of origin and the place of origin to work and introduce some new elements, also in relation to the national debate that has developed over the years, the motion tabled and voted on by Parliament and some subsequent choices; I think that the timing from here to the end of the year will be crucial from this point of view, because we can really start moving things forward. As for the complex issue of black work, of the caporalate and of all the phenomenon of widespread irregularities, unfortunately, in some territories, which have been nesting for some time also in the agricultural and agri-food sector, from this point of view I would like to remind you that we must build a significant concert with other ministries, in particular with that of work and social policies, and also tell you of our great attention to some proposals that are ripening, for example from the union organizations in unitary and other organizations, to identify functional tools to react to this phenomenon. In this case, I am referring to the possibility of introducing for the first time a sort of real work network in agriculture as a large database that can, for the first time, cross several fundamental information in order to get to monitor the phenomenon and find some rapid precautions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u87	RUTA (PD). Madam President, the Senate PD Group welcomes and supports all actions aimed at countering all forms of counterfeiting and misuse of Made in Italy. Among those who cheat consumers, even more in the case of mob criminal organizations, and those who produce in Italy guaranteeing work, protecting biodiversity and making, thanks to the high quality, increasingly attractive and sought after our products, we are without doubt with the second, honest producers. The Government must activate, with new and more effective determination, all the necessary international relations and act with concrete actions of protection, perhaps with a well recognizable national brand, to be presented at Expo 2015. It is, in fact, a unique opportunity on which you have to be strong, because winning is guaranteed, and with more incisive and innovative actions you can make more competitive the food supply chains, and with them our economy and the whole country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u90	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I cannot say that I am satisfied, because unfortunately the problem is being avoided. I understand the Minister's difficulty in entering into some issues, having just arrived, but I am sincerely not satisfied, and I call on him again to be much harder within the Ministry, and also with other colleagues, because these situations are there, and evading them does not help anything: then there will be those who will push for us to go all the way. In this country, in fact, we talk about many things and we don't talk about the real issues, where there are the real waste and not the commercials to do for a few more votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u93	GAETTI (M5S). Minister, I am pleased to hear that you know the problems well, but the times are really very tight, and so you have to work. He spoke of the single register of controls, but I would have liked to hear who is to keep the database: the SIN worked very badly. As for the Internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (ICANN), it was we of the 5 Star Movement who raised the problem. The trade agreements have always seen us losers: Morocco teaches us that our oranges are having market difficulties. I therefore conclude my speech as I have already done in the Commission: good work for all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u96	FORMIGONI (NCD). Madam President, I believe that the Minister has well understood the task of his ministry, himself and the Government to defend Made in Italy in a vigorous, strong, capable of pushing the quality of our products, which are already appreciated worldwide, to be even more competitive. In particular, it seems to me that he has well grasped the provocation that I have addressed to him: effective controls, pointed, capable of hitting quickly and well and, at the same time, controls as simplified as possible, eliminating duplications. I want to say to the Minister, who knows well, that the Commission that I have the honour of chairing is working in the context of the colleague, precisely on the issue of simplification and efficiency of controls. I am sure that the work carried out jointly between the Commission and the Government this time will achieve significant results. Good job, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u99	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, to my partial satisfaction I add disappointment, because the side that involuntarily made Senator Ruta arouses in me the concern that among the instruments to defend Made in Italy we want to continue to think, as happened in the linked, about the theme of the unique brand for Made in Italy, which I consider a very dangerous instrument, because it would kill our wealth, which is made of diversity. The Minister has taken good care not to mention him, but Senator Ruta has done so, who was evidently more prepared than we were for the news he would have given here. I hope that at least on that subject there will be a rethinking and rewriting of the strategy, because I consider it an even misleading instrument, that will not solve the problem of the customs or geographical origin of the product, and that it will risk to embrace definitively and dangerously the idea of Europe to standardize the productions, going against the perspectives of the country system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u102	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I speak quickly. I am pleased with the issue of the axis being implemented at European level, but unfortunately Burma's rice will come the same. We can do whatever aces we want, but we will. Another thing that makes me particularly uneasy is an article published recently in the New York Times. Regarding this article, I read: The extra virgin olive oil made in Italy mocked (...). The truth about olive oil (...). The American newspaper breaks up the product symbol of Made in Italy claiming that much of the Italian oil, sold as olive oil, does not come from Italy, but from countries like Spain, Morocco and Tunisia and affirming that Italy is the world's largest importer of olive oil. When I no longer read articles like this and when I no longer see Coldiretti at our borders to block the trucks coming from Germany or all the crap the European Union wants us to eat, then I will be totally satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u105	RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, I welcome the Minister's response. We are talking about an extraordinary phenomenon, so there is a huge cake, of billions and billions of euros, and so we need a great deal of attention. However, I would stress just one aspect, of all the instruments that he has identified or that he will try to identify again: the theme of the short supply chain between producer and consumer, without all those passages that stifle the agricultural economy. I think this is one of the few effective instruments we have at our disposal. We must seriously hit this long chain passage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u108	IN MAY (PI). Minister, I see that you continue with the line you have set out to us in the Commission, which is that of dialogue, consultation and confrontation. This is - I would say - a somewhat contradictory approach to what your President-in-Office of the Council says. From this point of view, I have some concern. The concern stems from the fact that, in the matter of spending review, we are already beginning to say that we have so many police bodies. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that the competences that the Forestry Police Corps has carried out to date can, if anything, be amplified. With this recommendation, I thank you again for the work you are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u109	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Martina for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-224.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
