ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u4	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u7	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that the temperature in this House is too high. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll report the problem to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I should like to suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. However, even at the request of the Budget Committee which is completing the examination of the measure, pursuant to Article 108 (4) of the Regulation, I suspend the work until 11 o'clock. I would also warn you that the Conference of the Leaders will be convened during the general discussion. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u9	The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u13	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I'm begging colleagues to take their seats. Is there still someone pulling the card? Senator Marinello, take your seats so we can close the vote. I call on the senators who are entering the Chamber to hurry to vote. After Senator Zavoli, I would close the vote; out of respect for Senator Zavoli, we give him time to reach his station. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Zavoli, if you vote, allow me to close the vote. I declare closed the quorum check. (Senator Zavoli shows that he has not been able to vote.) Senator Zavoli, we can consider you present: he's here, and I don't think anyone can dispute the established presence of Senator Zavoli. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u14	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u15	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:13 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u16	At the request of the Budget Commission, I suspend the work until 11.30 a.m., and I very much hope - I believe I interpret the sentiment of this House - that the Commission will be able, having knowledge of the timing and terms of the debate, to allow it at 11.30 a.m. Therefore, the verification of the quorum was all in all less decisive than it seemed. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 11.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u17	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1215. The Commission, as I have seen myself, has voted on the mandate to the rapporteur, so we can proceed. The rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u18	Mr President, we are examining the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 151 of 2013, which contains financial provisions that are indisputable in order to ensure the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures on infrastructure, transport and public works, as well as to allow interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters. Article 1 amends Law No 147 of 2013. In particular, paragraph 1 of Article 1 refers to 1 January 2014 and 1 July 2014 the application of the rules contained in paragraphs 33 and 529 of Article 1 of the Stability Act for the year 2014, concerning respectively the purchase of online advertising spaces and the stabilisation of personnel with fixed-term contracts with the Regions. Paragraph 2 contains a number of further amendments to the 2014 Stability Act. In particular, the letter a) of paragraph 2 intervenes on paragraph 139 of Article 1 of the 2014 Stability Act concerning the extension of deductions for building renovation and energy redevelopment operations: the last period of the letter d) n. 3 is deleted, paragraph 2, with which - with reference to the tax deductions related to the expenses incurred for the purchase of furniture - it is expected that these expenses could not exceed those incurred for the restructuring work. Point (b) refers to paragraph 434 concerning the allocation of resources to the reduction of the tax burden, deleting the forecast contained in it that the Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document (DEF) should contain, inter alia, an assessment of the trend in current primary expenditure. Point (c) refers to paragraph 514, concerning tax advantages for the Region of Sardinia, stating that the constraint on the coverage of the standard requirements for the financing of the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights remains at the expense of the regional budget. Point (d) refers to paragraph 573 (on the procedure for the multiannual financial rebalancing of local authorities), setting within 90 days of the entry into force of the Stability Act the time limit within which local authorities may, in the first application, propose the procedure for the multiannual financial rebalancing. Finally, point (e) refers to paragraph 680, second period, concerning the extension of the deadline for the payment of the standard increase TARES, specifying that the payment of the increase, to be made by 24 January 2014 (if not executed by 16 December 2013), is without prejudice to the determination of the relevant amounts in 2013. Article 2 concerns the discipline of public buildings. Paragraph 1 amends (from 31 December 2014 to 30 June 2014) the term introduced by Article 2-a of Decree-Law No 120 of 2013, for the exercise of the right of withdrawal - by the administrations of the State, the Regions, the local authorities and the constitutional bodies - from the contracts for the rental of existing buildings; moreover, it provides that the period of notice for the exercise of the right in question must be exercised within 180 days (instead of 30 days) from the entry into force of the aforementioned Decree No 120. Paragraph 2 deletes the reference to the above-mentioned rule contained in Article 1, paragraph 389, of the 2014 Stability Act. Paragraphs 3 to 5 provide for simplification rules for the transfer of public buildings. In particular, paragraph 3 aims to simplify the transfer to the municipalities of housing built for refugees, removing the obstacle of the prior publication of a notice by the Municipalities; paragraph 4, in order to simplify the procedure of alienation in block of public buildings, exempts the State and other public entities from cadastral declarations of conformity, while paragraph 5 facilitates the completion of such real estate operations, with regard to the acquisition of the energy performance certificate. Paragraph 6 authorizes an expenditure of 20 million euros for each of the years 2015 and 2016, in order to make available to the Agency of the property the sums for the payment of the urbanization charges related to the operations of valorization of the real estate of the State. Article 3 sets out measures on infrastructure and transport. Paragraphs 1 to 3 contain provisions to ensure the objectives of the plan of return, in the course of approval, from the established deficit of the companies operating the railway regional transport in the Campania Region. The extraordinary task of remodulating services, implementing efficiency measures, setting tariffs and setting staff is assigned (comma 1) to the Commissioner, and the financing of the Commissioner's support structure is identified, which may require financial advances, until the re-entry plan is approved. The paragraph 2 extends to 31 December 2014 the prohibition of executive actions, also competitive, against the companies with regional participation exhibiting the regional rail transport. Paragraph 3 deletes the rotation fund for the granting of advances to the Regions in situations of financial imbalance, aimed at the gradual depreciation of deficits and off-balance-sheet debts established, as well as the support of the burdens deriving from the implementation of the financial stabilisation plan, or, for the Campania Region, to the financing of the return plan, establishing in its place a rotation fund aimed at granting to the Campania Region, cash advances for the financing of the return plan with a budget of 50 million euros. Paragraph 4 allows the Ministry of Economy and Finance to transfer to ANAS Spa, in anticipation, the financial resources available for the year 2013 on the relevant budget chapter, in order to allow the company to cope with the payments due, on the basis of the progress reports, in relation to interventions concluded or in progress. Paragraph 5 authorizes the continuation of the regulation of the relations between the State and the railway infrastructure manager, on the basis of the Programme Agreement 2007-2011, until the conclusion of the procedure of approval of the program-part investment contract 2012-2016, in order to allow the continuation of the interventions of the national railway network and the implementation of the related investment programs. The deadline of 30 June 2014 for the conclusion of the approval procedure for the 2012-2016 programme-parte investment contract shall be set. The paragraph 6 authorizes the Ministry of Economy and Finance to pay Trenitalia Spa the amounts foreseen, for the year 2013, from the forecast budget of the State, in relation to the public service obligations of rail transport carried out in the Region of Sicily and the interregional services, in compliance with the current Community legislation, in the more of the conclusion of the new public service contract for the railway transport services for the Regions with Special Statute. Paragraph 7 provides for the direct payment for the year 2013, from the State to Trenitalia Spa, of the share of 23 million euros as consideration due for the railway services of local interest rendered in the three years 2011-2013 carried out in the Region Valle d'Aosta, as previewed from the agreement between the State and the Region of 11 November 2010. Paragraph 8 provides the necessary financial cover. Paragraph 9 suspends until 30 September 2014 the effects of a decision of the Head of State that has annulled some articles of the regulation implementing the code of public contracts, in acceptance of an extraordinary appeal. Within six months of the entry into force of the Decree-Law in question, the provisions amending the abovementioned Regulation should be adopted with regard to the system of qualification of undertakings. Article 4 contains rules on Rome Capital. Article 4, paragraph 1, authorizes the Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government of the Municipality of Rome to include, for a maximum total amount of 115 million euros, in the passive mass referred to in the document prepared for the definitive determination of the debt, any further debits arising from obligations or charges of the Municipality of Rome prior to 28 April 2008. The paragraph 2 allocates 6 million euros for 2013, 6,5 million euros for 2014 and 7,5 million euros for 2015, using the resources referred to in article 10, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree no. 112 of 1998, relative to the transfers to the Regions in implementation of administrative federalism, to the following purposes: to contribute to the overcoming of the crisis in place in the integrated management cycle in the territory of Rome Capital; to implement the participations previewed from the Protocol of understanding of 4 August 2012 ("Patto per Roma") and from the program of work contained in it "Distributed collection." Paragraph 3 provides that, to the compensation of the financial effects in terms of needs and net debt deriving from the previous paragraph 2, the corresponding use of the fund for the compensation of the financial effects not provided for in current legislation. Article 5 lays down provisions to facilitate the implementation of the interventions planned for the Universal Exhibition of Milan, in particular by granting a contribution of EUR 25 million to the City of Milan for 2013 as a contribution to the financing of expenditure. Article 6 contains some provisions of interest for the Provinces, relating to: the methods of repartitioning of the experimental rebalancing fund of the Provinces; the reductions made to the experimental fund for the year 2013 due to the provisions of spending review; the determination of non-taxed erial transfers to be paid to the Provinces belonging to the Region of Sicily and the Region of Sardinia for the year 2013. Article 7 lays down rules in favour of the Region of Sardinia, in connection with the weather events that hit the Region in November 2013. Specifically, paragraph 1 provides that payments of unpaid taxes, pursuant to the Ministerial Decree of 30 November 2013, are made between 24 January 2014 and 17 February 2014, without the application of sanctions and interest. Pursuant to paragraph 2, persons who have suffered damage for these events may apply for financing supported by the State guarantee for a maximum duration of two years. To this end, lenders are allowed to contract loans, according to standard contracts defined with special agreement between Cassa Depositi e Prestiti Spa and the Italian Banking Association, up to a maximum of 90 million euros. Paragraphs 3 to 8 govern the procedure for granting such funding, its reporting obligations in case of non-payment, and the monitoring of expenditure limits. Paragraphs 9 and 10 contain rules for coverage and financial adjustment, while paragraph 11 provides for funding to be granted in compliance with European State aid rules, identifying the relevant verification procedure. I would like to take this opportunity, at the end of my report, to thank the offices for their support, the President and all the members of the Commission for their active cooperation and their great contributions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u21	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I would like to share with the House the pain of the news of the disappearance of Gianni Borgna, who died this morning after a long illness. He was a politician of rare humanity, a very sharp and open politician, a modern man. For a decade Borgna held the position of city council member for culture at the Municipality of Rome. I remember him as a person to whom Rome owes an extraordinary period of synthesis between the Roman people, Roman politics and the world of culture. Only Gianni Borgna had the qualities to achieve such a result, and it is extraordinary that he also achieved it by restructuring the Roman culture. I remember, for those who are not Roman, that Gianni Borgna owes himself the start of that splendid gallery that are the Scuderie del Quirinale, to him we owe the start of the Auditorium Parco della musica, to him we owe the start of a unique initiative in the Italian panorama that is the Festival of poetry. Gianni Borgna was a good man, a great personal friend of many of us, and I think it's right that this morning the Senate remembers him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are all very excited and very sorry for the disappearance of Gianni Borgna. Many of us, like me, have been together in Junta for years, so for us it is the disappearance of a friend, of a person with whom we shared many years of administration, projects and dreams for Rome. Gianni was an enthusiast of his work for culture and for our city, and with his passion and dedication he knew how to involve not only the majority that held then the City of Rome, but the entire City Council, therefore also the opposition, in giving back a fundamental role to culture in the identity of our city. Here we could make a very long list of all the important initiatives that he carried out in those years, in terms not only of events, but also of structural investments, in our city for culture, from museums to a new season for libraries, to the animal rights office, which reminded me of Senator Cyrinna. I think all of us will miss him, he will miss this city very much and the culture of our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u27	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the pain of the loss of Gianni Borgna, who for me came suddenly and unexpectedly, because he did not flaunt his illness in recent years, confirming that he was a mild and reserved person, a delicate person. Gianni Borgna was an intelligent politician, who expressed a passion for man caught through the years of his administration in Rome. It had been before, and it was also after, an enthusiast of popular Italian music, and it is strange that it is missing precisely in the days of the Sanremo Festival, of which he wrote a very beautiful story, because it is also the history of our generation, of which the music was the soundtrack and at the same time the story of costume, thoughts and dreams. A generation that had experienced the boom and then, gradually, the following years. As administrator Borgna, who was also very attentive to the economic aspects - I remember that he turned with a notebook on which he marked line by line everything that was spent in his sector! - had a fundamental role in the rebirth of Rome, where culture, art, music and poetry were the means by which to revive the city, revive Roman neighborhoods and suburbs and the way in which, in those years and for many years again, Rome has found its quality of life, its security and its social quality. As Senator Zanda recalled, he led the rebirth of the Roman museum system, which later became a very important element of attractiveness and economic leverage for the capital. Finally, he had the genius of the ideation of that great machine of culture that was the project of the Auditorium, conceived by Renzo Piano, but that it was not easy to fill with productions as it was and as Gianni Borgna was able to do. I want to associate myself with this pain. We will remember it with its sweetness and mildness, and we hope that the way it is administered will also be a reference point for the future. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u30	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group - The People of Liberty XVII Legislature I am pleased to recall the figure of Gianni Borgna who, as has been said, was a great expert and passionate about music, a man of culture who made himself available to the community and the city of Rome, which is the capital of Italy, where millions of people come every year. He has made available to all these people his talent, his ability to have ideas and his organizational capacity. I think it was a positive model of a political person, who has a personal history and for a period of his life made it available to the community; after his term of office, he resumed his activity. I believe that Italy owes him something, and it is therefore right to honour his memory. I hope that in Rome or in other cities there will be similar experiences, because they have certainly been very positive and have honored our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u31	The Presidency supports the speeches made by senators from various parliamentary groups. I remember that Gianni Borgna, who - as has been recalled - was a political exponent, but also a music critic, essayist and writer, was city council member for culture at the Municipality of Rome from 1993 to 2006, and therefore for a long, intense period, in which he has always interpreted with a sense of measure, concreteness, rigour and also with great ability to listen to his activity. As a politician who has worked in the City of Rome, rather than as President of this House, I too can testify how I have always sought dialogue with all political parties. He was a person who was attentive to other people's reasons and popular culture, as has been recalled. He was, in fact, also a music critic and author of books dedicated to parts of culture that are sometimes considered marginal, but that instead in popular culture live more than other themes. So, not disdaining the high themes, he was able to deal with many topics. I would also like to mention this as the protagonist of a dialogue between the political parties. One of the books I remember, written with four hands by him and a journalist, exponent of the Capitoline assembly of another address, Adalberto Baldoni, was dedicated to Pasolini, to a bipartisan reinterpretation of this figure, which in the Roman cultural debate has always had an even greater importance than it has in the national debate. He is a man who will certainly miss everyone and who has lived this stage of suffering with great discretion. In fact, we were all not only grieved, but also surprised by the news. I think it's fair that the Senate Assembly remembers it with a minute's recollection. [[The President stands, and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u32	The students of the Technical Trade Institute Italo Calvino di Rozzano, in the province of Milan, are present in the gallery and follow the work of the Senate, as well as the State-Integrated Institute "Matteo Trenta" of Bagni di Lucca, in the province of Lucca. We greet the teachers and students, whom we thank for their visit to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u33	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u34	Mr President, as many Members will recall, this measure is a bit abnormal because it had already been examined by us at the end of last year, but after being improperly weighed down by the House of Deputies of other completely inadequate content, it was eventually withdrawn by the Government. Indeed, it would not have been promulgated by the President of the Republic, having by now degenerated into its contents. It was therefore exceptionally permitted, even in discrepancies with the constitutional precedents and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, of which a possible reading was given since the decree-law had not been converted and its bill of conversion had been withdrawn by the Government, a recurrence of some of its parts. Among these is the so-called saved part of Rome, which deals with the very serious situation in which capital is placed from the point of view of finance and administrative management. The situation in Rome, multiplied by at least ten, is a bit the exponential point of a crisis situation that concerns the entire system of municipal administration. On the crisis of local finance (which is structural and on which I think we will have to make a reflection because this can be overcome only with a rethinking of the organizational structure of the local authorities), on the crisis situation of the city of Rome are grafted the effects of a bad management that has characterized the Municipality in recent years and that has concerned above all the system of so-called municipalized, which are the main source of the financial failure of the Municipality. In fact, we must call things by their name: the Municipality of Rome is virtually a City in disarray, for the simple reason that it has no balance of budget. The situation faced by Mayor Marino, elected to manage something that he might not have assumed had such dramatic features, had a deficit of almost one billion euros, which this decree reduces by about half, without, however, substantially resolving the problem. Let's remember that previously, in 2008, the State had assumed responsibility, putting it practically in a kind of bad company - or bad municipality (we can also call it so) - all the stock of the debt matured until that date and, therefore, cleaning up the balance of that huge ballast that conditioned the start of the Alemanno management. In the Commission we listened to the extraordinary commissioner for the plan of return of the previous debt of Rome Capital Varazzani who, presenting us a reconnaissance until July 2010, confirmed us that at that date the stock of the debt transferred to the commissioner's management amounted to about 20 billion euros; he also stated that that debt is paid today with a liquidity instalment of 500 million euros so covered: for 300 million euros provides the State and for another 200 million euros is provided with an additional IRPEF paid by the Romans and with a part of other taxes paid by all Italian taxpayers when they embark on one of the Roman airports. A total of EUR 500 million is charged to taxpayers. However, as Commissioner Varazzani said, this money is not enough, because in 2016 we will need more money just to pay for the EUR 20 billion already transferred to the Commissioner's management. In the first decree save Rome had been foreseen not only a transfer of the State, but also an additional IRPEF to the Romans, operation that was rejected by this House on our initiative and wisely not reproposed by the Government in the new decree. This, for the simple reason that, if an additional IRPEF was introduced, in Rome (and in Lazio, as Rome the capital of the Region), between 2014 and 2015 would be paid 5.3% more than IRPEF (which is already insured), plus 0.3%. This not only has an unsustainable effect for Roman taxpayers, but it also has a depressing effect on the economy which creates a multiplier of diseconomy also for the budget of the municipality of Rome and Lazio region. I mean, we are above that level that excessive tax pressure creates economic degrowth and therefore reduces tax revenue. That, therefore, cannot be done. So, what do you have to do? We must try to prevent this deficit from happening again, otherwise the effect will be that in 2016 not only will we have to pay more to amortize the debts that already exist, but we will also have other debts to load on the state budget, at a rate that currently runs, as we have seen, at one billion per year. The point is that we need radical care and we need above all the responsibility of an entire ruling class, the Roman one, which has produced this overall situation, even if in the last four years there has been an undeniable worsening. This situation is given by some numbers. In the municipalized sector (to deal only with those, because the municipality of Rome also has a relationship between employees and inhabitants far greater than the average of the Italian municipalities: but let's forget, because this is justified by the fact that its territory is very vast, very dispersed, therefore there are many districts, there are 21 direct participations and indirectly the Municipality of Rome owns 140 shares). The complex of these companies employs about 25,000 employees. The bulk is absorbed by ATAC, which employs almost more employees than Alitalia, and AMA, but what must be emphasized is that between 2008 and 2010 this perimeter of employees has increased by almost 4,000 additional units, not only in public service companies, but also in the so-called companies in house, that is those that carry out for the Municipality of the activities of public importance, such as the real estate design and the management of cultural services, and that the Municipality itself finances at the foot of the list transferring the amount of the service contracts. Then, if this system is not attacked, the budget of the Municipality of Rome cannot be healed. We believe that federalism is a responsibility and that we cannot invoke the autonomy of choices on the part of those who have produced this situation irresponsibly, by dumping it on all Italian taxpayers. From this point of view we are very disappointed. We have started a confrontation with the rapporteur and the government, and I will talk about it when we get to the bottom of it. In the meantime, however, I can say that there is no determination of the choices in the relationship between government, therefore national responsibility, and local authorities, therefore local responsibilities. Not only that: fully founded and realistic agreements that had been found within the majority have jumped for the external influence of the Roman parties, which thus give the sign that they have not yet understood the gravity of the situation. If Rome wants it not to declare itself a failure and does not provide for a Commissioner to do what needs to be done, Roman politics must intervene. In this sense we will insist, even in the course of the debate, that this text be strengthened. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Candiani and D'Onghia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of examining this decree-law to draw attention to the concept of urgent decree. As you all know, the decree-law is an act of law that the Government adopts in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. These last two nouns, contained in Article 77 of the Constitution, represent the forms and limits within which the Government has the power to issue legal norms. The decision No 360 of 1996 of the Constitutional Court placed strict restrictions on the government's practice of using the decree-law as a legal instrument and thus, in fact, replacing, in many areas, the fundamental role of Parliament. However, it is no longer surprising that the Government grants itself the right to replace Parliament, which, among other things, is clearly contrary to the principle of separation of powers. (at 12.10 a.m.) (Follow MANGILI). Already in 1988, when Law No. 400 governing government activity was enacted, the legislator posed the problem of defining the areas of executive power and also the legislative power under it. Article 15 of that explicit law states that "Interim measures by ordinary law adopted pursuant to Article 77 of the Constitution shall be submitted to the President of the Republic under the name "decree-law" and with the indication, in the preamble, of the extraordinary circumstances of necessity and urgency justifying its adoption." What does that mean? It means that the Government must assume the responsibility of issuing measures, an expression of extraordinaryness and exceptionality, the solution of which is immediate, rapid and concrete. Now, given that the act we are examining has been preceded by another which carried the same financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory, I wonder whether it is correct to circumvent this rule by inserting new circumstances. I wonder whether it is right to disregard not only the appeals of other Presidents of the Republic, but above all of the courts, which have repeatedly stressed the need to respect the principles relating to the characteristics and content of the emergency measures laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution and the Constitutional Implementation Act No 400 of 1988. Perhaps not everyone knows that the Constitutional Court, in judgment No. 22 of 2012, has observed that the insertion of heterogeneous norms with respect to the object or the purposes of the decree breaks the logical-juridical link between the assessment made by the Government of the urgency of the provision and the provisional measures by force of law. The Constitutional Court has always set, as a limit to the prohibition of recurrence, the identification of new reasons for necessity and urgency. In truth, what affects the so-called Salva Roma decree is precisely the repetition of norms contained in other decrees-deceased laws. I remind everyone of the provisions on the financing of Rome Capital, the measures on infrastructure and transport, on ANAS and railway services, on Expo 2015 and even on the Provinces. The only new feature included concerns the measures for the Region of Sardinia regarding the resumption of suspended payments for taxpayers affected by the flood of last November 2013. Is it possible not to understand that the repetition and heterogeneity of content deprives of value the "extraordinary" character of the requirements of necessity and urgency? This mode of operation has altered the institutional balance, it has altered the same form of government, but above all it continues to undermine the field of Parliament's legislative function. Therefore, I invite you to admit not to us, but to the citizens, that there is definitely no Expo 2015 at this time of necessity and urgency! I will end with a warning to the new Executive this time: no more decree of schizophrenic and compulsive urgency. Give Parliament its original role and take a step back. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u37	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, he was born in London on 5 October 1845 and died in Rome on 9 April 1921; he was elected mayor of the capital city in 1907 and reconfirmed mayor in 1911. I am speaking, Madam President, of Ernesto Nathan. The story tells of him as a great mayor, a mayor who first, however, had also benefited from a law, of July 1907, which provided for financial measures in favour of the Capital. So, Madam President, history repeats itself, after a hundred years. But a lesson this mayor left him. A famous anecdote tells that, as soon as he was elected mayor, he was submitted the budget for his signature. He carefully examined him and, among the various chapters, read: "Cats for cats." Asking the official for explanations, he replied that that voice was referring to the maintenance of a large feline colony that served to defend from mice the documents kept in the Capitoline archives. Nathan took the pen and erased that budget item, explaining to his disembodied interlocutor that cats should feed on rodents who had the task of capturing. By the time they had no longer found themselves or seen mice, the purpose of their presence would also have failed. From this episode would come the Romanesque saying, dear President: There is no tripe for cats. Well, Madam President, there is no cat tripe at all. Nathan taught that administrators who don't do their job well are comparable to those picnics that get fattened by the city budget and that those mice, which are the problems, do not give a damn. There is no cat tripe, Madam President: it is a pity, however, that cats, these big and fat cats, are never left at home. There is no tripe for cats, but there is a big debt, like the City of Rome, which asks for money from a huge debt, which is the State. There is no tripe for cats, Madam President, but the offal for capitoline pussies are bought with the money of the virtuous municipalities and citizens who regularly pay taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There is no cat tripe, Madam President, yet we continue to provide succulent and expensive cat cans worthy of feline parades. That mayor also said something else, Madam President. Ernesto Nathan said that it was right to promise little and maintain much: just the opposite of what we do today, when all candidates to the chair of mayor of the eternal city promise drastic tax reductions, a rosy future, seas and mountains, and then give their citizens only an atlas. You see, Madam President, people from the North are vaccinated against toxoplasmosis: it is and will always be, and the disease of these men will never take it. These cat diseases that eat treasonous offal - I would say - will not infect the people of the North. But there is not only Rome, gentlemen: there are also Naples (go and read some news) and Reggio Calabria: a flood of picnics that would not catch a mouse even if it were in a wheelchair. Madam President, why are we debating a saving Rome decree of this kind, in which a little bit of everything is included? It is no coincidence that the last approval of the 2013 forecast budget, which took place on 7 December 2013, reminded us more of a war path than a democratic political confrontation: thousands of amendments, hundreds of agendas, river meetings, some suspended for delicate and important unforeseen events, recourse to the TAR. You didn't miss anything. In fact, Madam President, reading the same budget document and some newspaper that gave it publicity, it turns out that the current deficit in the city is close to a billion and that the number of employees in the body exceeds that of FIAT (not just any company). Among the various disasters carried out by the Roman bad management are the undisputed municipalities, even 26, to which must be added those of a boundless galaxy of subjects (more than 50): those of ACEA (energy, water), AMA (waste), ATAC (transport), etc. In total, the three municipalities reach the incredible figure of 31,338 employees, equal to 85 percent of the staff of all the municipal participants, which is about 37,000 employees, that is 10,000 more employees than the total ones of the FIAT plants in Italy: practically a city, Madam President, to which - it must be remembered - approximately 25,000 employees of the municipal administration must be added. So many nice pussies, Madam President! It also seems strange that during the Alemanno administration - since it was first appointed - there was not a left to the opposition that put the candidate mayor Marino in a position to know what he would have met and what type of budget the City of Rome had. We have been elected for almost a year, Madam President, and for nine months we have been dealing with measures that have nothing to do with the needs of this country. We have approved measures such as the decree emptys prisons yesterday afternoon, with a river sitting. Certainly, Madam President, we have confirmed one thing, at least this seemed to our Group: there was no attention, in trying to fill the holes of Rome, Naples or Reggio Calabria (and who knows what other Municipality of the South there will still be), in putting this country in the condition of traveling at least in arms with the other European powers. The situation is very serious. At this time, too, we had the feeling that we should have stayed in this House from 8 a.m. until midnight to look at the measures concerning the economy and that they should perhaps also concern tourism. Tourism in Rome has seen and sees, internationally and I would say worldwide, an ability to attract tourists, an open-air factory that does not have the opportunity to be relocated and that has been badly managed. The City of Rome has the opportunity to have millions of visitors and the only thing that was able to do was to introduce two euros of tax for each visitor in the hotels. Congratulations! There was talk of an increase in the additional IRPEF. Well, I wonder why my community of 1,640 inhabitants has to raise taxes to pay Rome's debts. I ask myself this strongly: why does he have to do this? The problem is very simple: the Stability Pact strangles everyone a little bit, but I see that there are special attentions for Rome. In Italy there are 8,000 municipalities, where children and stepchildren are the masters. Gentlemen, I believe that we are at the apotheosis of a very complex municipal management system, where I would be very careful to get the mice caught by the mugs and not all the other way around. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u39	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the general debate on the Senate Act No 1149, an agenda was adopted on 19 December, the G2.103 at the first signing of Senator Santangelo, with whom the Government undertook: to adopt measures to encourage the pursuit of an effective regional rail transport policy, a strategic asset fundamental to the economic, tourist and territorial development of Sicily; to initiate programming and financing measures aimed at strengthening the railway network, in order to ensure the resumption of the work of doubling the single track sections, suspended for years, as well as the start of the realization of new doublings along the main roads of Sicily. The Government has also undertaken to proceed to a punctual recognition on the state of the intense activities of modernization and adaptation of the infrastructures of the Sicilian railway network. Why was this agenda drawn up? The article 2, paragraph 5, of the Act Senate n. 1149, concerning measures in the matter of rail transport, authorized the Ministry of Economy and Finance to pay Trenitalia Spa the sums previewed, for the year 2013, from the budget of forecast of the State, in relation to the obligations of public service of railway transport by rail exercised in the Region Sicily and the interregional services. Now, no one is surprised when it is said that in Sicily the system of regional, urban, suburban and extra-urban transport, both road, rail, sea or air, involving more than 10,000 employed workers, is in collapse. But there is more: public transport in Sicily has always been a topic - yes - discussed, but never seriously addressed. Why? It was a slogan for political propaganda rather than a concrete way of developing the economy of the Region; because local transport is a topic that always appeals to the politician in turn. This truth cannot be understood by the Legists, who are obviously surprised when it comes to contributions to the Mezzogiorno. However, it should be clarified once and for all why these contributions are never sufficient to improve rail links, both long-distance and regional. To the colleagues of the League I ask: have you ever come to Sicily by train? Have you ever taken a train from Trapani to Catania? Do you know how much a ticket costs? But most importantly, do you know how many hours it takes to get there? It takes between 8 and a half hours to 10 and a half hours, with the charge of paying a ticket from 19,10 euro to 40,40 euro. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Do you know the distance between Catania and Trapani? As the crow flies it is 233.62 kilometers and 318 kilometers by car, which you travel in 3 hours and 26 minutes. With Trenitalia, instead, it takes only 8 hours or almost 10 hours! The Sicilian railway network extends for 1,378 kilometers, but of these, 1,200 kilometers are still on a single track and 578 are not electrified. This is an absurd fact that cannot be ignored. On the contrary, we find again a measure authorising the Ministry of Economy and Finance to pay Trenitalia the amounts provided by the state budget for 2013. I like that we will give about 111 million to those who plan mainly to apply industrial strategies that, in the past, have done nothing but eliminate many long-distance trains, clearly reducing regional races and relegating Sicily to a geographical exile of not indifferent importance. I would be willing to vote favorably only if Trenitalia really showed itself willing to ensure that mobility to the people and economic subjects of the Region. In this case, you have the opportunity to demonstrate that the principle of economic efficiency and efficiency of administrative action, also enshrined in the Constitution of the Italian Republic, and above all, to reduce the costs of administration for the management of recruitment procedures, because Italy remains only a showcase without mannequins. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u41	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u42	Madam President, perhaps I can have a few more minutes, since my colleague Mr Mandelli, who is registered to speak after me, has given up his speech. The measure that we are discussing, Decree-Law No 151 of 2013, as the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, explained, is nothing more than a part of Decree-Law No 126 of 2013, which was allowed to lapse because some amendments, approved during the parliamentary process, had rendered its content heterogeneous in the light of constitutional jurisprudence. The current measure arrives in the Chamber, as it is now customary and like many others, a few days after the deadline, therefore the version that from the Senate will arrive to the House will have to be approved without discussion in order to prevent its decadence. The same courtesy was reserved to us by the Chamber, from which we received the other part of the old decree no. 126 of 2013, No. 145, which we approved just yesterday evening without discussion and without making any changes. Now, as this issue has been raised several times in this House, I wonder whether it is not possible for the presidency of the Senate to agree with the Presidency of the House to allow both branches of Parliament, with mutual respect, to examine every measure with the right timing and, therefore, to avoid a constitutional reform that has not yet been implemented, namely the elimination of one of the two chambers. One phone call would be enough to make a deal. After this permission, the contents of the measure under consideration are indicative of the breakdown of the country, which is also an accomplice of this Parliament, which now lives on the day as the crew of a drifting ship. I will just point out a few examples. Article 1 provides for a series of amendments and postponements of deadlines established by the Stability Act, No 147 of 2013. It seems to me very disconcerting that, two days after the publication in the Official Journal of the law of stability, which took place on 27 December last, it is necessary to resort to referrals and modifications which - be careful - are not of one or two terms, but even of seven terms. I think it was necessary to be careful when the bill of stability was presented. Madam President, I would also like to point out that it is pathological in this country to want not to tackle the problems, to tackle them when they have taken on the dimension of drama and to resolve them in an approximate manner by means of buffer measures. Here, too, I would like to give an example: Article 3 deals with iron transport in the Campania Region. Decree No. 78 of 2010, as part of the measures relating to the rationalization and reorganization of the participating regional companies, allowed the Campania Region to appoint a commissioner ad acta to ascertain the deficit accumulated by the various companies operating the regional transport on iron and prepare a return plan. Is it possible that it will take four years to give the Commissioner an extraordinary task of remodulating services, implementing efficiency measures, setting tariffs, stabilising staff resources, and providing a support structure to carry out the tasks laid down? Meanwhile, from 2010 to today, how many more millions of euros of debt will be accrued? The same applies to Roma Capitale. Article 4 authorizes the extraordinary commissioner of the Government of the Municipality of Rome to include in the passive mass a total amount of an additional 115 million euros for matches before 28 April 2008. Of course, 115 million euros are crumbs, but they are necessary to avoid the default of the Municipality of Rome. For the record, it is good for this House to know that, in the hearing of Extraordinary Commissioner Varazzani, the members of the Budget Committee were able to learn that the provisional balance of the passive mass at 15 January 2014 amounted to a small figure of 14,969,669,672 euros, after cancellations, corrections and payments in 2013 (in 2013 it was over 16,5 billion). I remember that the return plan was financed in 2008, 2009 and 2010 with an extraordinary contribution from the State of 500 million annually. For the following years there are planned 300 million annually, always made available by the State, and own resources of the Municipality of Rome through additional. It is clear that the State has had no resources for a long time and provides by reducing transfers to other local authorities. In essence, the City of Rome makes debts and other local authorities pay. In the last year alone, local authorities throughout Italy have been cut by more than EUR 2 billion. What has happened since 2008 and what is happening today is unknown. Those who live will see, but it is not difficult to imagine. When will this history of Rome's debts be borne by all Italians? The determination of the passive mass is fine, but when will there be measures to eliminate the structural deficit and to close the cheerful management in which the City of Rome operates? Another bad example is the Expo of Milan 2015. How complicated is it to put in a measure what it takes to organize an event? I believe that we are now at over 21 laws concerning Expo Milano 2015. I did a short research: five measures concerned the Commissioners, two the establishment of corporate bodies, eight the resources allocated, four the realization of essential and necessary works, two the anti-mafia and anti-corruption measures. And it's only early 2014. For 2016, when the event is scheduled to be concluded, we will make another 30 measures. We are really amateurs on the brink also in organizing an event. Does this benefit clarity, transparency, rational use of public resources, good organisation of an event? This event has an estimate of expenditure - I want to say this to the House because we are all distracted - of EUR 1.5 billion, EUR 3 000 billion of old lire. For reasons of time I shall finish and I am not talking about the Alexandria amendment. I believe that these are some of the reasons why it is difficult to make a favourable assessment of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u43	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this House dealing with a decree with the evocative nominalist formula, Salva Roma. It is a measure on which it is necessary first of all to clarify because, so stated, it leads us to think of interventions that deviate from the reality of the same, as if the will of the Government was to save the capital without understanding from whom or from what. The aim of this measure, which was partly achieved, was to enable the current Council to close the budget. As you know, on the eve of its conversion, the Government was forced to withdraw the decree, because it had been zipped with amendments that had nothing to do with Rome and that had made yet another omnibus measure. One part, the most urgent, has been recovered in the so-called thousandprorogues decree. During this period this intervention was referred to as a generous donation: 400 million euros from the State to the Capital, which would thus have collected half of its budget hole. This does not correspond to the truth. It is only the possibility for the Capitol to move a match of more than 400 million on the debt managed by a commissioner, so that the accounts can be settled in the official document. The Municipality of Rome, in fact, in the second decade of December of the reference year, approved the budget. In other words, it has already been estimated that expenditure has already taken place thanks to a series of legislative extensions, derogations and prefective referrals. Despite the law on public finance you forbid it, last year 800 million more was spent than revenue and then some accounting gimmicks had to be used. But the blanket was too short. The Capitol therefore obtained the right, as has been said, to shift a substantial part of the debt on the management of the commissioner. In practice, it has not entered a single extra euro in the municipal coffers and the only result is that dozens of creditors (often small companies, unfortunately) will see no hope of seeing their rights honoured: an accounting artifice adopted by making faith in a decree not yet converted and, therefore, at high risk. In fact, it was withdrawn and, if it had not been recovered in another decree, the budget would have been skipped. The decree saves Rome, however, also contained another provision, which suffered a contrasted iter, which has not yet been recovered and it is not said that it will be. This is the possibility granted to the Capital, by way of derogation from the general rules, to raise the roof of the IRPEF from 0.9 to 1.2% for 2014. The forecasts for the current year show that the deficit amounts to 12 million and no more than 800 million and that only a substantial increase in the IRPEF tax will allow the closure of the programming document. It must be made clear that, contrary to what has been circulated in the press, the municipality cannot fail: for insolvent administrations there is an obligation to declare failure. We all know that this involves a blockage of mayor and Junta, who, while remaining in office, have no room for intervention until recovery. It is clear to me that the city of Rome has been in a state of technical failure for many years, unfortunately. I do not want to place the responsibility for this situation on one administration, much less on the last arrivals. However, for years the Capitoline ruling class has allowed, for obvious political opportunities, to mask this problem. Now that the debt has become so striking, EUR 12 million, it is no longer possible to ignore anything. For years the Romans have suffered what, in fact, is a sort of technical failure, with the investments blocked and the increase of taxes, without benefiting from the rebalancing that the officialization of this situation would entail. The name "Salva Roma" serves only to give the illusion that the Government is dealing with its capital; it induces supporters and detractors to think that this consists in real benefits of which there is no trace in this provision. We would need, yes, a framework measure that evaluates the extraordinary competences that Capital takes on and the powers that are conferred on it by the law so-called for Rome Capital, in order to adapt the transfers that, to date, do not take account of it. In order to restore the accounts of the Roman accountantry, it can only be necessary an extraordinary and transparent intervention, in a framework that forces - and I stress - the Capitol to a radical revision of its corporate assets, of the management of services, of the use of human resources, of the structure of expenditure. Now politics plays its part, recognizing the responsibilities of the past and addressing today the challenges highlighted, in a different perspective. No more commercials. The Romans cannot suffer other accounting devices which do not lead to any structural change in the composition of the budget. The majority concretely demonstrate, today and not tomorrow, to all Italian citizens that all the money they give for the recovery of this city is conditioned by measures of genuine recovery. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u45	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while I reserve the right to make final assessments of this measure in my explanation of vote, I think it would be useful to make a general argument concerning this decree in the course of its conversion, like all the decrees that have happened to us recently, in a very substantial way, to have to examine and bring to approval. I believe that a reflection on how to legislate should be done. Parliament is forced to a marginal condition in the production of laws, to a condition of objective difficulty also in the operational level of assistance that it needs to avoid mistakes, which then weigh in the public machine, and more generally in the state of the country, and even more in the life condition of citizens. That this situation is a privileged witness to those who are members of the Commissions of the two branches of Parliament which have a general value, such as the Budget, because they see how it is used to go back, to deal again with issues that have already been addressed in other measures and how often it happens that a provision, which has been the result of discussion, deepening and suffering outcomes, then ends up being, in a subsequent norm proposed by the Government in an irrational way, in a subsequent decree, suspended in its effectiveness or, even worse, suppressed. I would like to take as an example Amendment No 1.3, which Mr Luigi Marino has tabled, to which I would also ask that we be able to subscribe, which concerns the stabilisation that can be made by regional budgets by regional administrations. That matter has been dealt with in a timely manner in the law of stability; on that matter and on others the Government has put the question of trust, trust which it has received from Parliament. But within a few weeks, after those passages, which are significant in terms of the value of the parliamentary decision, those provisions were removed by the Government, and those deletions were immediately made operational through the decree. It is not right that we continue to work in this way, because this confuses the citizen, but it also disqualifies the seat of the decision before the legislation, which is Parliament, and not the Government. The Government is left, within its constitutional powers, with the possibility of acting by delegation, the possibility of urgent action, the possibility of legislative initiative, i.e. to submit to Parliament, for the final decision, the rules it considers necessary. The constitutionally enshrined principle of ownership of the legislative function in Parliament is being overturned, and this is being done with the complicity of Parliament itself, which makes it very difficult to continue to think that the country has an estate, also from the point of view of the democratic structure, of its levels of institutional responsibility. Having said that, and very briefly entering into the substance of the measure under consideration, it deals mainly with a subject, which is the question of the debtor status of the Municipality of Rome and presents, as in all the decrees that we have examined up to now, some points that have been added, points that perhaps could not have been contained by subject matter. This measure has a history very similar to that which other draft laws have had: on these rules Parliament has already largely expressed itself and in both its branches they have obtained votes of overall approval, and yet today we continue to have a very confused and provisional situation, also with regard to the life and operation of the Municipality of Rome and its current government. Well, we say that regardless of the substance and content of the measure: we would not want any attempts to further politically destabilise the democratically expressed choice by the citizens of Capital. In other words, we would not want to conceal an attempt to undermine the democratically elected government for the management of the City of Rome, the capital of this country, behind the more or less obstructive behaviour against the measure under consideration. Just as we would not like some necessary interventions, for example, on the ground of natural disasters (even for the last recent disaster, so grievous for a region already hit as Sardinia), to be overwhelmed by political initiatives and internal fibrillations to a majority that we do not know exactly how it will be configured in the next hours and in the next days. We would not want to be paid for the games of power once again for citizens who have already suffered a desperate condition and for companies that are already in difficulty, such as those that have been overwhelmed by the floods that have occurred in Gallura and other parts of Sardinia. In other words, we would not want the main issue to be dealt with, that is, the condition of our citizens and the life of our community, to be a secondary issue in the context of the political games of this majority and the national political forces. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u47	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are two months from the red light to the first Salva Roma decree, sunk because of the presence of ignoble marchettes and shameful rules such as the one that intended to punish the territorial authorities committed to legislate and regulate the contrast to the spread of gambling. Today, in the presence of the resigning government that issued it, the Letta Executive, broken up and distrusted by the same party of relative majority, we are about to launch the so-called measure save Rome- bis, a decided aid to the City Hall from the disaster budget that, euro plus, euro less, has a new debt of about 860 million euros. Despite the internal bellyaches of the outgoing majority, apparently not different from the incoming one, driven by the new bold and ambitious Premier who is preparing to leave the Arno where the dirty cloths are rinsed in favor of the eternally turbid waters of the Tiber, one must run to approve the text that helps the municipal administrators of Rome. Thus, while all the other more than 8,000 mayors of Italy engage with a spirit of self-denial for IMU, mini IMU, TARES and TASI, are victims of your superficiality, arrogance and inability to understand the real world, scrape the fund of their municipal budget plundered by continuous linear cuts to recover the few euros left, necessary to provide services such as school and social services, try to distangle themselves as they can with the constraints of the "Pact of stupidity", try to contain the local tax pressure, starting from the IMU, a bloodshed for families and businesses, which you have introduced in our country, well, the administrators of Rome will sleep peacefully. After a few weeks you are re-presented with a measure, purified by the marchettes, with contentini for Expo and tax aid for alluvionates of Sardinia, but that in fact follows much of the "fu salva Roma" with precise provisions aimed at supporting the malconcio Municipio. It is a municipality - we stress - in difficulty not because of a calamitous event, but because of the bad gestures perpetrated in the last luxuries, as my colleague Lanzillotta pointed out. Roma Capitale is not a provider of high-quality public services, paid at a fee by users, as it happens everywhere; Rome Capital is above all a clientele system, a pool of votes, an agency of placement of friends, relatives and acquaintances [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , hired directly, but also and above all dependent on the various participating companies, with the salaries paid by the general taxation that - we stress - is not that of City Hall Capitoline, but that of Pantalone. It is an army in total of 62,000 employees, growing, divided between the 25,000 payroll of the City Hall and the 37,000 of the galaxy of the municipalized. A city in the city! [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] Given the huge hole created over the years, this will not be your last gift to Rome Capital. The Commissioner has already said that 500 million a year will not be enough. There will always be the excuse that the faults of the fathers cannot fall on their children, that is, on Marino the responsibilities of Alemanno who ruled for five years, as on the latter they will not be able to fall those of Veltroni, who ruled for seven years, who in turn replaced Rotelli, mayor for seven and a half years. It's left-wing, but also right-wing, and forward-looking. Consistent with one of the most classic aphorisms, according to which victories have many fathers while defeats are orphans, even Rome's responsibilities seem to be unknown to most. Reading the latest available budget document, forecast 2013, approved - think! - on 7 December, since - I stress - it has passed the already absurd deadline of 30 November, it is discovered that the current deficit in the city reaches a billion euros. Among the various disasters caused by the Roman mischief, one cannot fail to point out that the undisputed municipalities are the first. This is a discriminatory measure, which we will vigorously oppose for the sake of respect for the other thousands of mayors and their administrators. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] Ours - we mean - is not a battle against the Roman citizens, but against an irresponsible political-administrative system, but also partly corrupt [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , as evidenced by the ongoing investigations on the father master of the waste management, first manager and first beneficiary of the waste emergency in Rome and Lazio. The measure gives another 115 million euros, which are added to the many other previously granted, also to the Covenant for Rome, signed in 2012 by Minister Clini, to support the inefficient waste system (to the 30 million already allocated then add another 20): to the face of the citizens who pay all the cost of the service and that with your TARES, in 2013, they paid the increase of 0.3 euros per square meter! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A real state lace! And to the face of the many traders who have closed the shutters for tax increases of 300 and even of 500 percent. The Northern League, through amending proposals, simply asks one thing: that the City of Rome begins to walk alone. For the League it is sacrosanct that the Municipality, apart from the management of the integrated water service, surrenders the participations and that the local rates and taxes have increased. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] I shall start with the conclusions. President of the Council in charge of Renzi, who prevented you from eating the Easter dove in Letta; who, guest of Bignardi, you assured yourself to become Premier, if anything, only passing through the elections and not through games of Palazzo, forgetting to point out that you alluded to the internal elections in the leadership of the PD and not the democratic ones [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In which 60 million Italians participate: well, President Renzi, I point out that the parasites in our society are increasing and strengthening and, as Professor Miglio said, these parasites are causing our society to die, because they are consuming the wealth produced by others. We are waiting to see what your anti-parasite agent, President Renzi, will be, but frankly we fear it will be deeply ineffective. You, also as secretary of the relative majority party, yesterday already endorsed the approval of the shameful decree emptying prisons and with today's provision you missed another important opportunity to be credible. The process of the disposals of Capitoline participations is watered down and not incisive and certainly this will not avoid the bankruptcy of the Municipality of Rome. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] The North has already been drained and no longer has a euro to give to Rome! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u49	We greet the students of the secondary school of first degree "Ospedaletto" in Rimini, today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u50	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u51	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, and the entire Budget Commission, in particular President Azzollini, for the work that has also been done on this decree, which is certainly an extraordinary work, carried out at a time of jam. I would remind you that the Budget Committee is called upon to express its views on all the draft laws that come before the House, measures on which hundreds of amendments are tabled. Again, the budget Commission, I repeat, has carried out a great deal of work under difficult conditions, at the end of which, unfortunately, this time too, in order to work quickly and to work badly, it has run the risk of incurring an accident. Fortunately, in this case we have completed the work in the best possible way and, therefore, the decree arrives in this House giving the necessary answers. It is true that today's examination is a decree that presents as central the issue of Rome Capital, of which I will then speak, but it also addresses other issues: it contains provisions relating to the famous problem of public rental contracts and the possibility for the public administration to withdraw from them. Despite all the controversy, the Budget Committee felt that it should not change the drafting of these provisions prepared by the Government, because it was a clear drafting, as we have repeatedly pointed out in the Commission, and because they provide that contracts may be withdrawn by 30 June, setting out a further six months' notice. Therefore, the Budget Commission, considering that the provisions were clear, decided not to preclude the possibility of using them. We have therefore maintained the rule on public buildings, without modifying it, given its very effective drafting. We have also dealt with the problems of infrastructure and transport, responding to two regions which have serious difficulties, such as Campania and Calabria. Among other things, we also dedicated ourselves to Sardinia. In this respect, I would like to go further on an amendment adopted in the Commission concerning the condition of discomfort that the Region is experiencing because of the calamitous events of some time ago. We have thus intervened with a rule able to give a response to a sector in serious crisis throughout the country because of the notorious Bolkestein directive, which is the one concerned by maritime state property concessions. I hope that this issue, which we have only been able to deal with in part and limited to the Region of Sardinia, will soon be dealt with in a more comprehensive and comprehensive manner, partly because it was a commitment already made in the law of stability. I come to the question of Roma Capitale. The debate that took place in the Commission focused mainly on the famous homework to be assigned to the mayor of the city of Rome, and I think the compromise reached in the Commission itself is positive. The question on which attention must be focused is that we must accompany the Municipality of Rome to achieve financial rebalancing. I would like to point out at once that we have asked him nothing more than what is required, for example, of the regions when they are being called upon to pay for the deficit in health, namely that a report be made showing the causes of the formation of the deficit, that finally lets us know clearly the size and nature of the debt and that, above all, in a very short time (sixty days) prepares a three-year plan for the reduction of the deficit and for the structural rebalancing of the budget. We have also provided for specific actions to be carried out by the Municipality of Rome concerning standard costs, staff and, above all, the much-discussed issue of the hundreds of companies involved. I think that the work carried out by the Budget Committee has led to a balanced conclusion, which respects the autonomy of the Municipality of Rome, like all our other local authorities, but which also takes into account the fact that the Municipality of Rome has been strongly supported by the Government. So on the participating companies it must take an incisive action, which is then the most important requirement for the rebalancing of the balance sheet. In this regard, we have asked the Municipality of Rome to proceed with the disposal and liquidation of the participating companies which do not appear to have as their aim the public service where this is necessary in order to pursue the financial rebalancing of the Municipality itself. I therefore believe that the work done by the Commission on the issue of Roma Capitale leads in the right direction, because it finally calls for a serious and concrete commitment on well-identified, qualified and determined points so that the financial balance of this institution can be achieved. In its overall system, this decree deserves to be converted because it gives answers, also thanks to the improvements made by the Commission to the original text, to many urgent questions. He also gave answers - and I think that Parliament should also deal with this - to a whole series of calamitous events that our country suffered; I spoke about Sardinia, but we also tried to respond to the financial problems of the institutions that suffered the earthquake of Emilia Romagna and Abruzzo. The decree also contains a standard approved in the Commission on this point. Therefore, we believe that the Commission has done a great deal of work, balanced work under difficult conditions. We hope that we will no longer be called to operate under these conditions, which are the conditions which could lead us to not always in-depth assessments of the issues that are being put to us. We hope that in future we will not be subjected to traffic jams of this magnitude. In conclusion, I would like to say that the New Centre Group, appreciating the work done by the Budget Committee, will vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u52	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u53	Madam President, this is yet another measure of the outgoing government (and we are at 28) that hides a real soup behind the title: there are all the ingredients, there is nothing missing. We have had the opportunity to read a wide range of amendments, bizarre and personalistic, of parliamentarians who aim to cultivate their own garden, to feed their customers with public money. Even the Messenger, a few days ago, called a graph: The great return of tips. These are amendments which, even if they are part of the right vision of improving transport and the territory, are very, perhaps too localistic. Such requests may lead to discrimination from territory to territory. The safety of schools must be at national level, as well as the restoration of the territory that has suffered hydrogeological damage. We cannot continue to make differences: A-series and Z-series citizens only because some areas have or do not have elected parliamentarians. I believe that debating the issue of local authorities cannot fail to recall that the many scandals affecting public administrations stem precisely from a system of rain financing and almost non-existent controls, from the total lack of transparency, not only in local authorities, but in all public administrations, starting with Parliament. You see, for us to talk about transparency means providing the citizen with guarantees: this means not only being able to control the work of those who, with public money, administer the country, but also aiming to achieve maximum efficiency for the benefit of the citizen in terms of services by public administrations. To this, by logic and by nature, this measure should have tended. Even the UN Convention against Corruption, ratified by Italy, calls for transparency, but for Italy to be sanctioned and constantly recalled has become a habit. I myself have complained, on more than one occasion, about the indispensable publication on institutional sites of certain types of data. I have recently asked those responsible for the upcoming new appointments to replace the Deputy Secretary-General of the Senate to respect the criteria of publicity and transparency. That's the only way things in our country are gonna work again. I have also tabled an amendment to include Article 1-bis, which was intended to control expenditure in the Regional Councils, so that the Court of Auditors could check the general accounts of the Assembly or Regional Councils, verify expenditure and revenue and whether they were actually incurred or received, directly upstream and not as a result of criminal proceedings. In fact, we try to upset what little good we were trying to do: to achieve a real spending review, allowing administrations, regions, local authorities and constitutional bodies to withdraw from contracts. A reading note shows the same redefinition of the deadline for the exercise of the withdrawal at 30 June 2014, instead of 31 December 2014, together with the obligation of a notice of no less than one hundred and eighty days: it results in the saving, in fact, only the resolutions for which they are already notified, by the rental authorities, the intents of interruption of the lease relationship. In short, all the factors, those previously considered, seem to operate, if not the repeal of the institute... president. You must conclude, Senator: your time is over. BOTTICS (M5S). Okay. In short, all the factors, those previously considered, seem to operate, if not the repeal of the institute, certainly a kind of neutralization of its effectiveness. Its effects have, in fact, been limited to those which have already been improved as a result of the rule in force. Yesterday we approved the so-called decree "Destination Italy": we hope this is not the beginning of the "Destination hell." [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u54	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You may, Senator, but your time has been used by Senator Ceroni (you said you would give up your speech), so I would ask you to do a very short speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u55	Madam President, in view of the lack of time, if I may, I will hand over the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u56	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u57	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I intervene only to stigmatize, also for my part, the absolute unevenness and the lack of the presuppositions of urgency that should be the basis of this decree-law, which contains dishomogeneous norms, not coordinated, that often come back to deal with things that we have already dealt with. The first, for example, is precisely the law of stability, on which we are still intervening; then, again, there are measures on infrastructure and transport; the provisions on public buildings, which we are still drawing from the so-called Salva Roma decree that was withdrawn before Christmas; the provisions on the Expo (in a fragmented way we are dealing with a matter that constantly deals with us, without ever having the opportunity to solve it in an organic way); the provisions for the Provinces; the measures in favour of taxpayers affected in Sardinia. I would like, in the short time I still have, to stigmatize the fact that we are still faced with a clear violation of the dictatorships of the President of the Republic, with a series of rules that are not really together, and to express, secondly, my staff do not support this decree. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u58	Senator Broglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to vote on a measure which had already arrived in this House on 18 December and which had not been converted in good time to the House. This is a measure that deals, once again, with urgent measures that mainly concern the territorial authorities, either for issues of calamitous events (as in the case of Sardinia), or (as in the case of Rome) to give a serious and careful recovery perspective or, however, to give immediate answers to problems of the territories that can no longer wait. To this end, I would ask that I be able to add to the report of today's sitting an addition to my speech, and I shall confine myself only to a few comments. That is, if this House dismisses this measure today, we will be able, this time, to enable the other branch of Parliament to approve it by 28 February. This is the third decree that we will approve within two days. This means that the Committees on the Rules of Procedure and the Budget in particular have worked in a feverish and very often precarious way over the past few weeks, due to the importance of the measures and the great attention which should be paid to each amendment, both by the opposition and by the majority, and which cannot be reconciled with the very little time available. Very often in recent months we have been told how the excess of urgent decree ends up emptying the role of Parliament and its prerogative as a legislative body and how often the measures station too much time in the first branch of Parliament called upon to debate them. It's all true. However, I believe that those who look at us from home, and especially those who look forward to the conversion of this decree coming in good time and do not negate the effects that it has begun to produce on a transitional basis, are not very interested in this. In other words, I believe that the variable of timeliness is not second to the goodness of the measures that we are called upon to vote on. It seems to me that it is now the heritage of all political forces, although with different nuances, the need to overcome the system of perfect bicameralism and to start a season of radical reforms. But we, waiting for all this, have the duty and, as far as the forces of majority, the burden of running our country every day for the common good. Well, the Senate institution today has the opportunity to speak to the country in a clear way and to show that even in days like these, where a resigning government continues to work awaiting a new government that we hope will soon come to take confidence in the two branches of Parliament, the Senate also plays its part and does it clearly. Or, we can get lost in discussions that fill social networks and newspapers, but not family refrigerators. Like every decree, this too does not escape its own precariousness and its own limits; I too said so in my speech on the "Salva Roma 1". There is a need for organic measures, unique texts, simplifications and framework laws; but, having said all this, we are called every day to bring a brick to the reconstruction of this country. We are called to restore dignity to ourselves and to the entire political class, challenging, also through measures such as this, those who do not lose the opportunity to demolish the bricks laid down. That is why we will vote in favour of this decree, looking at the substance, the substance and the urgency of the measures contained in it, for the good of all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u60	Senator Broglia, the Presidency authorizes you to attach integration to your speech. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u61	Madam President, I have listened to the speeches of the senators and senators, who largely followed the comments that had already been made in the Commission. Some of the comments I agree with, such as those on the difficulty of working in this way. Of course, the decree under consideration has been deposited for many days in the Senate; but, in reality, it has only been worked in the last days, because in the previous days we have dealt with something else. So even if the measures stay here a long time, it's not really that you're unfulfilled: it's that there are other things that precede and that have a greater urgency, because they expire first. However, I would like to thank you for your comments. I believe that this measure, in addition to having been designed for Rome, contains many other points that are expected by many institutions. So calling it reductively "save Rome" does not do good either to the measure, or to us who are going to vote instead a much more composite measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u62	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u63	Madam President, I will make a few comments in response to the comments made during the general debate, largely concerning the particular aspects of this measure and the individual measures it contains. I will try to do this in a nutshell, with a couple of general considerations, also in response to the observations on the constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency and on the heterogeneity of the content of the measure. The measure is heterogeneous by definition: these are different measures to deal with as many emergencies that affect more local authorities, more territories and more regions, or that concern matters that have generated financial tensions and application problems over these years. On the other hand, we are downstream - hopefully at the conclusion - of a long period of restrictions on public finance and crisis, as we know, which has also generated tensions in many local authorities or unpredictable territorial needs and needs. Several of the rules contained in the measure attempt to meet this requirement. In the same way, it is clear to all the origins of the rules for correcting or postponing the effects of few, but significant provisions contained in the law of stability. Therefore, it goes without saying that some remarks have abstractly a basis, but if they refer to the purpose of this measure, which is what I was referring to, they partly lose their validity. Second, the decree-law was improperly called save Rome, because the provision on Rome, as is known, constitutes one of the different provisions, although, from a quantitative point of view, the most significant and relevant. I want to stress, in particular to the senators of the North League, but also to other senators who have made comments on this point, that, with the exception of the limited resources for the separate collection of waste arranged in compliance with a pact dating back to 2012 between the Ministry of the Environment and the Municipality of Rome, as is known, with this measure no additional resource is transferred from the budget of the State or from the general taxation in the coffers of the Municipality of Rome. I believe that, at the end of this difficult parliamentary journey in this branch of Parliament, it is at least a matter of pointing out, in the parliamentary communication, but also in the public communication, a clear fact: the heart of the measure concerning Roma Capitale is a financial rebalancing between the commissioner's management and the ordinary management of Roma Capitale and not to additional resources for Roma Capitale. This is a fact that I do not understand why it is constantly being called into question, or why it is called upon - even - the fact that, as someone has said, taxes would have been increased in Rome, rather than in Italy, in order to support this measure financially. In this provision there is no measure that is as natural as the one to which I referred. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] 13.28 (Followed by Mr Legnini). Secondly, as had already happened in the reading of the previous decree-law, then passed, this branch of Parliament has made important improvements to the text that concerns Rome Capital, ordering the City of Rome Capital to provide within a short time for a structural financial rebalancing of the institution, indicating, unlike what happens for other institutions in anticipation or in financial imbalance, also the objectives that will have to be achieved, on which we have also discussed here today in the Chamber. I am referring to a number of speeches, including yours, Mr President, which raised issues and problems which have a basis and which have been resolved at the outcome of an in-depth debate in the Commission, as reflected in the text approved by the Commission itself. A further element of guarantee has also been added to ensure that this process of financial and structural rebalancing is achieved within a short period of time: the plan that the Municipality of Rome will have to prepare within the 90 days foreseen by the norm will have to be not only monitored but also structured with the help of the interinstitutional table, which is already provided for by the legislation in force in one of the legislative provisions implementing the norm on Rome Capital. This interinstitutional table will have to give a mandatory opinion, and it will therefore have to be examined whether the measures set out in this legislative measure to avoid further subsequent action over the next few years will be implemented and will be effective in achieving the expected result. This is the meaning of the measure we are examining, which has a very significant and significant impact on the realities involved. The same thing, regarding some other importance, happens, for example, for the norm, that it was already in the original text but that it has been further specified, on Calabria: no additional resources are expected but it is authorized a finalization of the resources already allocated to the Region itself in order to restructure and efficient the system of local public transport. The same could be said for the different bodies and the various emerging situations that are referred to in the text. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to stress the positive, fruitful and improvement work carried out in the budget committee. If there are conditions, on the basis of the progress of the discussion, the Government is also willing to consider some other limited improvement of the text, highlighting that, within the limits of the judgments that were and are entrusted to the President of the Budget Committee in the first instance and to the President of the Senate in the second instance on the eligibility criteria, we have adhered to the content of the measure itself and in any case has been avoided the intrusion of rules that are very far from the content of the text. Once again I welcome the work that has been done, I repeat that during the debate on the amendments, if any other improvement proposal is to be considered, while remaining within the text in a limited way, it will be possible to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u64	I note that the opinion of the first standing Commission is being distributed, so it will not be read. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to assessing the feasibility of the amendments, the Presidency has aligned itself with the agreed criteria for the conversion of decree-laws. Therefore, the amendments already established by the Presidency of the 5th Commission in the course of the referent's examination are first and foremost unpropos. I remember that the Constitutional Court, with the judgment n. 22 of 2012, recalled in the letter of the President of the Republic of 27 December 2013, affirmed that the necessary homogeneity of the decree-law must also be observed by the law of conversion and that the insertion of heterogeneous norms with respect to the object and the purposes of the decree breaks the logical-juridical link between the assessment made by the Government of the urgency of the provision and the provisional measures by force of law. In my letter of 28 December 2013 addressed to the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions, I recalled the need for the consideration of the proposed amendments to the decree-law conversion bill to be particularly scrupulous and attentive, especially in terms of the necessary consistency in matters with the text of the decree. In this context, I had reserved the right to declare that amendments from all backgrounds were unacceptable, even if they were tabled by the rapporteurs or the government or already approved by the Commission with the favourable opinions of the rapporteurs themselves and the representatives of the Commission. I had also reserved, as an extrema ratio, for the drastic measure of declaring all the additional amendments to new paragraphs or articles impossible. In the light of these criteria, the Presidency therefore states that amendments which are not consistent with the subject matter, subject matter and specific purpose of the measure in our examination cannot be proposed and do not present a close and direct correlation with the individual provisions of the same decree-law. The list of amendments which have been declared inadmissible has been distributed in this House. I hope you've already reached everyone, otherwise we'll take care of it. Of course, we are grateful for the careful and scrupulous work of all the members of the budget committee for the amendments which have already been declared impossible in the referee. This impossibility is confirmed for all amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u67	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to welcome the strict observance of the Court's judgment, although I must be surprised that we remember this judgment of the Court and not those where it is said that repeated decrees-laws cannot be signed and presented to Parliament or, as in the case in point, withdrawn. This is a real shame. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u68	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to make one thing clear: there is amendment 1.0.5 on the distributed list among those that have been declared inadmissible in the referee. In fact, this amendment was approved by the Commission. I'd like to know if there's a mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u70	I think I have made it clear: those approved by the Commission have also been screened by the Presidency, which has declared them unacceptable. There's one from the government, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u71	The following is written: further amendments declared inadmissible by the Presidency. So, were they all declared inadmissible by the Presidency?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u72	I think I read clearly. Maybe you were absent and didn't listen. We have confirmed the inproposability and, in addition, stated the inproposability that the Presidency considers to be such. Excuse me, ma'am, it's misspelled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you'd listened, maybe you'd understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u73	President, I have listened carefully. I read: "Emmendations which have already been declared inadmissible in the referent" and "Further amendments which have been declared inadmissible by the Presidency." It doesn't add up to me. It's misspelled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u74	The result does not change: the amendment in question is in any case impossible. This distinction serves to highlight the careful and scrupulous work of the Commission for the purposes of impponibility. That is why there was this distinction: having stated that the Commission's inproportionability was made its own, the result is that they are all impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u75	Mr President, I shall withdraw all my amendments and put forward agendas for all the amendments which have been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u76	If they've been declared inadmissible, you can't do that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u79	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would ask for a very short suspension of the House's work, because in the situation created after the declarations of imphensibility, the Group needs to assess the actual content of the measure. Is it possible to suspend the House's work for ten minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I understand that there was a declaration that all the amendments proposed by the PD Group had been withdrawn. ZANDA (PD). Of course, yes, but since amendments which had been adopted in the Commission have been declared inadmissible, we would need to assess the actual content of the measure in relation to the text adopted in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency will then have a ten-minute suspension. ZANDA (PD). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u82	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to point out that I would like to explain amendment 1,55, first signed by Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u85	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, before you stop the sitting, I would like to say that we do not agree very much with President Zanda. We believe that this measure must be completely revised, as we see that the majority suffers and difficulties. We therefore believe that it should be withdrawn from the government, which is not in the Chamber, among other things. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I'm here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bitonci, the government is present. BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to be very clear and I do not want to repeat it indefinitely: this is a measure on which the majority that has not been discussed for days, indeed for more than a month, and I think it is time for the government to withdraw it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u86	Since a ten-minute suspension has been deliberated, we will resume with the explanation of the amendments to the resumption of work. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, at least on inproposities! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll talk about this in ten minutes. Ten minutes can be waited. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 13.43 p.m. and resumed at 14.02 p.m.) Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u89	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia-PdL XVII Legislature Group will be engaged today in an important meeting from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. I therefore call for a suspension of the work of this House from 14.45 p.m. to 16.15 p.m. to allow this meeting to take place. I would point out that you have already given this opportunity to other groups and that this is the first time that we have made such a request. I would therefore ask you to take account of this important requirement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u90	Senator Alberti Casellati, the ten-minute suspension just passed was granted only to give the opportunity to examine some of the texts that have just been presented in relation to what the House is working on. The problem you raised has already been raised at the Conference of the Leaders and has already been resolved in agreement with the Presidents of the parliamentary groups. We can proceed with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.31. It proposes the deletion of point (d) of paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Decree-Law: in substance, that rule which sets in 90 days rather than in 30 the time limit within which local authorities may propose the procedure of multiannual rebalancing. What is the reason for the amendment? Our country is not a country for victims, but for defendants, for perpetrators in general, insofar as the rules are often interpreted in a benevolent way when it is a powerful one to make mistakes, and it often happens that there are people who are willing to table amendments or to introduce regulatory changes that make life easier for those who have made mistakes. We are talking about municipalities that are basically in disarray, whose mayors, who will exert pressure and negotiate with the City Council, are given more time to obtain the procedure of rebalancing, which is not for the benefit of the citizens, who are in any case in a position to bear the greater burdens connected to the rebalancing of the accounts of the institution, but it is for the benefit of the directors who, not facing the discord but in the face of the procedure of rebalancing, are somehow relieved by the attention of the Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors for the erarial damage that probably, they or the political associates, have determined in the previous five years. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this rule, also in order to put the municipalities which have already suffered the damage under the same conditions as those municipalities which, according to the legislative forecast, would instead find themselves in a situation of unfair advantage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u92	Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 1.72, with a very short premise on the progress of the work, because it is essential in relation to this amendment and - I am afraid - with respect to other amendments which have been declared inadmissible. In the budget committee and elsewhere, agreements have been reached which have allowed access to this House to a package of agreed amendments. The amendment Nencini and others, which concerns the world championships of cycling held in Tuscany, signed on other occasions and at the service of other decrees by a transversal majority of senators, has not found a right of citizenship. It is very similar in its contents to others declared admissible. There's no difference. With a risk, which I put to the attention of the House: it is EUR 900,000. The cycling world championships, which are the third sporting event in the world for that sport, have now been held. There are companies that have committed themselves. There are administrations - Regione Toscana, Comune di Firenze and other municipalities and provinces - who trusted in an agreement with the Government, which had already been politically signed. This amendment should have honored him. The question is: why did the Commission, when it declared certain amendments of a completely similar nature, avoid admitting 1.72? I'd like to say for a reason, reasonable, I couldn't find her. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u93	Senator Nencini, this is a problem for the Commission, because then the amendments were evaluated by the Presidency, which confirmed its impproposability in relation to this decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u94	Mr President, I would like to outline the agenda for the meeting of the G1201 meeting, which responds to an explicit request that came to me from the territory, namely the Municipality of Scandicci, in the province of Florence (I remember that Florence is my city). Scandicci is one of the many municipalities that have found themselves paying the mini-IMU. I would point out that some local authorities have provided adequate services to support citizens in fulfilling this tax duty, also in view of the regulatory uncertainties that have created up to the end discomfort and confusion. Scandicci, unlike other municipalities, has not prepared the necessary measures to allow citizens the payment in a facilitated form of this tax. Therefore, the hope is that even Scandicci can be part of those municipalities whose citizens have had the support of the local authorities and have been able to withdraw the count already made of the IMU in the municipal offices. They were sent to the taxpayers of the folders (avoiding them to appear at the municipal offices) or in any case the citizens were invited to appear at the offices with the count already made, to facilitate their payment of this tax. I hope that even the municipality of Scandicci, like many other municipalities in Italy, will be in line with this initiative, implementing appropriate programmes in order to allow the population to take advantage of this facility.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,55, first signed by Senator Susta, which deals with a very sensitive subject which has its own history: I am referring to the stabilisation of the staff of all public companies (in dissolution or deficit), of State, Regions, Municipalities and Provinces, which, according to some rules contained in the D'Alia decree, was reabsorbed by other public companies in Bonis, obviously with the prospect that even those in Bonis would eventually become "malis". These rules, which are a real time bomb under public budgets and which had been rejected by the Senate for violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, have been reinstated by the House in the law of stability, which our Group voted here, at the third reading, for discipline and responsibility (we would have gone to the provisional exercise if the law of stability had not passed), but on the basis of a political commitment, namely the restoration of a majority agreement under which those rules would have been abolished with the first useful decree. This is the first useful decree. We have proposed abolishing those rules, and the government has said no. [[Brusio]] I would ask you, Mr President, to lower the buzz, because I have a problem with my voice and I cannot speak. [[Recalls of the President]] In the meantime another thing has happened: in the Democratic Party there is a new secretary who, among the first points of his vision and of the government program, placed the reform of the labour market with the Jobs Act, which means protecting the workers, but not the jobs and the job decoctions. On the one hand, we welcome this new vision, which for the private sector tends to change the integration fund, and on the other hand, for the public sector, we maintain jobs that public expenditure will feed, preventing financing other forms of social security. This for us - I say this to the Government and the majority - is an element of overall assessment of the measure. I stress its contradiction and unsustainability and I recommend that the Government reconsider this position. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u96	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 1.3, which is well known. I would like to remind this House, as well as the Government, that this amendment deletes the proposal (contented in the decree-law under consideration) to move the limit provided for in paragraph 529 of the last stability law, bringing it to 31 July of this year. That's all I'd like to remember. The law of stability was passed on 27 December; therefore the norm contained in paragraph 529 was passed on 27 December. On 30 December the Government presented a decree amending what it had approved on 27 December. And what changes? A time limit is moved forward concerning regions which are not in a situation of surplus staff and which are absolving the shortage of staff through public competitions. The law of stability, with paragraph 529, provided that it would stabilize at the date of 1 January: this decree-law provides to move this term to July, with all personal, institutional and regulatory complications. With the amendment we have tabled, we intend to bring this deadline back to 1 January of this year, as laid down in the Stability Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u99	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the order of business and not on Article 1, reminding the majority who support this Government, waiting to know what will be the one that will support the next Government, the commitments made in favour of the areas of Sardinia affected by natural disasters and in favour of the infrastructural rebalancing of the island itself. A number of amendments were proposed, which have been declared inadmissible. I would ask this majority to respect the commitments made during the Stability Pact, on the basis of which certain measures had been transferred precisely to the decree-law that we are examining today. I believe that the majority have all the means to fulfil their commitments to the island: let them demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u102	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to support Senator Floris' request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u103	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u104	I give a favourable opinion on the G200 agenda, provided that the words "engaged by the Government" are replaced by the following: "invite the Government."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u105	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u106	As the presenters agree, having been accepted by the Government, the G200 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The G300 agenda has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u107	I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 1.1, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 1.2 and 1.3. As for Amendment No 1.5, it appears to me that it has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u108	Senator Girotto, do you confirm? GIROTTO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u109	The opinion is in favour of the agenda, provided that the formula "invites the Government" is used.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u110	Senator Bulgarelli, do you accept the proposal made by the rapporteur? BULGARRELLI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u111	The opinion is opposed to Amendments 1.9, 1.9-a, 1.12, 1.13, 1.14, 1.15, 1.19 and 1.23, while it supports Amendment 1.24 and against Amendment 1.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u112	Senator Zanoni, forgive me. Senator Berger points out to me that he wants to intervene. You have the floor, Senator Berger.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u113	Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 1.23 and 1.26. With regard to amendment 1,27, I have announced that it will be transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u114	I didn't write it down: I take note of it. Senator Zanoni, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u115	The opinion on the agenda is favourable provided that the formula "invites the Government" is used.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u116	Senator Berger, do you accept this proposal? BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u117	Amendment 1.28 was opposed. I call on the authors to withdraw amendments 1.308, 1.29, 1.30, 1.30-a, 1.31, 1.309, 1.33 and 1.34, otherwise the opinion is against. I welcome the Commission's amendment 1.35, taking into account the identical amendments 1.36, 1.37 and 1.38. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 1,38-a, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment 1.39 (text 2) the opinion was in favour. I call for Amendment No 1.40 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. On amendment 1,42-a, the opinion was in favour. I call on the proposers to withdraw amendments 1,44, 1,46 and 1,47, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of Amendment No 1.48 (text 2) while I call on the proposers to withdraw Amendments Nos 1.49, 1.51 and 1.55, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the agenda, Mr G1.58, I am in favour of acceptance, provided that the word 'invite' is shown in the device instead of 'committal'. D'ALI' (NCD). All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the government representative if he would accept the agenda. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, President, the government welcomes him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.58 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u118	I call on the proposers to withdraw amendments 1.59, 1.60, 1.61, 1.63 and 1.65, otherwise the opinion is against. I am in favour of Amendment 1.64 -bis.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u121	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we immediately accept the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw Amendments 1,61 and 1.65. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us continue with our opinions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u122	On the agenda, Mr G1,200, I am in favour of acceptance, provided that the word "committal" is replaced by the word "invited" in the operative part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u123	Senator Fravezzi, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the representative of the Government whether he accepts the agenda as reworded. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u124	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G1200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u125	On the agenda, Mr G1201, I am in favour of accepting this amendment, provided that the word "committal" is replaced by the word "committal" with the other "invitation" in the operative part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u126	Senator Bencini, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation? BENCINI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the representative of the Government whether he accepts the agenda as reworded. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u127	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1201 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u128	On the agenda, G1.202 I am always in favour of acceptance, provided that the word "committed" is replaced by the other "invited" in the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u129	Senator Comaroli, do you accept?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u130	Mr President, the mechanism commits the Government to consider whether it is appropriate, so it already gives a breath to the Government, but if we must also invite it to assess, then withdraw it, because such a thing is unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u131	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government if they wish to accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u132	ZANONI, rapporteur. All right, ma'am, I'm in favour of acceptance. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, President, the government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u133	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.202 will not be put to the vote. ZANONI, rapporteur. I am in favour of the G1.203 agenda. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I give my assent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.203 will not be put to the vote. ZANONI, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion on the G1204 agenda, provided that the device starts with the words "invites the Government." Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I give my assent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petraglia, do you accept the reformulation? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1204 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1.34. ZANONI, rapporteur. Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G1.27 the opinion is in favour without any change to the system, because there has been a debate in the Commission and the Government has committed itself. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I confirm and accept it. BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am pleased that the Government has accepted the commitment. I would also like to withdraw Amendment 1.9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.27 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u136	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u137	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Comaroli and Bitonci to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 1.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u140	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). The majority of government, demonstrating once again absolute ignorance of the actual problems of the world of work, especially young people and businesses, also in relation to the opportunities of internalization, deriving from a modern use of the Network, has introduced in our system the so-called web tax, a sort of special tax regime for the purchase of some of the so-called services of the information society, that is services marketed and provided online. In particular, the services in question are those of a promotional nature, such as, for example, the so-called sponsored links, advertising banners or tourist promotion services. The rule would require Italian buyers of these services - without any penalty for the possibility of non-compliance - to purchase them exclusively from companies which, although established in the European Union, have an Italian VAT number. In concrete terms, the foreign Internet companies, which sell advertising and online visibility, will be obliged to open Italian VAT and accept payments only by bank transfer or postal transfer in order to work within our borders. However, we risk losing out on our businesses that may be cut off from the global advertising stream. This is a provision of law which is clearly incompatible with Community law, with strong doubts about constitutional legitimacy, in relation to the violation of the freedom of enterprise, as referred to in Article 41 of our Constitutional Charter. This, on the other hand, although timidly, has also been highlighted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and by the Chamber of Deputies' study centre and in recent days, in the broad national and international debate following the approval of the amendment by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The same spokesperson as the European Commissioner for Taxation has indicated that he considers this rule in its current wording to be incompatible with European law. In the light of the foregoing considerations, the 5 Star Movement proposes the cancellation of the aforementioned provision, all in defense of the interests of the world of work and enterprise, in the face of the disasters of which the old policy, consciously or not, is always capable. To confirm the above, allow me to read to you the following: With reference to the rule on the purchase of online advertising services, referred to in Article 1 (1), it is necessary to consider the need to delete this provision, in order to avoid that it may result in pernicious effects to the detriment of users and the development of the Internet itself. What I have just read to you is the opinion given in the 8th Commission by Senator Stefano Esposito of the Democratic Party Group on the law text in approval. We are pleased that the colleagues of Senator Boccia, brilliant author of this web tax, have revised their positions and therefore joined what the 5 Star Movement has requested from the beginning, namely the total cancellation of the tax under consideration. In this respect, I believe, given the changed position of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, it is desirable to approve this amendment, so of course the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u141	I would like to confirm the Government's opinion on the amendments. Mr De Camillis, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur on all the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u144	D'ONGIA (PI). Mr President, Amendment 1.3 calls for the deletion of the words "529" because the application of the rule has been postponed, as Senator Marino explained, to 1 July 2014, thus leading to an extension of the time for the stabilisation of staff we have in the different regions. Paragraph 529 of the law of stability provides that the Regions that are in situations of surplus staff in relation to the total organic endowment can make the hirings. These are personnel who are fulfilling the lack of organic endowment which has been subject to a contract for at least 36 months. It is therefore staff that is already present within the regions, we are not hiring any more, but we are only stabilizing it. So we ask the government not to continue to postpone this date, but to decide when these subjects will be hired. The measure was approved on 27 December and blocked on 30 December, and these people do not know what to do with their lives. It seems fair to me to take a position. I ask at least for the government to indicate another date, not 1 July. This could, for example, be brought forward to 1 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u147	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to add my signature and that of Senator Uras to this amendment, on which the Government has inexplicably taken a position of opposition without going into the substance. In the meantime, I would like to point out that there is discrimination against some regions, to which this path has already been granted. There is a real issue, because they have been dedicated for years to an essential function (very often they carry out technical assistance in the process of spending on Community resources) and which is also confirmed year by year. I believe that with the adoption of this amendment two major objectives would be achieved: to stabilize indispensable functions and to give some serenity to human resources that have been living in the uncertainty of tomorrow for too many years. It would be a matter of anticipating the deadlines a little so that the regions act quickly. I do not see the burden of spending levels, because they are all people who are already working and who are not just fixed-term in form, but in substance they are. I would therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to reconsider their opinion, because it is an initiative which would put some regions on the same level as others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u150	Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, we have discussed this subject a great deal in the Commission. Basically the text of the decree provides for a postponement to 30 June of the effectiveness of the norm aimed at stabilising some limited categories of fixed-term workers of the Regions. This postponement has become necessary because the concrete impact of this rule - it was a parliamentary amendment introduced to the House - on the budget of the Regions, the number of workers, the types of contracts to which we refer have not been evaluated in depth. Hence a mere delay in time. I would also add that the time required for the completion of the procedures will probably take the first six months of deferment of the deadline. This amendment is intended to delete the postponement, but on this deletion the Government can only confirm the contrary opinion. However, it would be a matter of restoring a rule which would at this point be retrodated with regard to its effects. On the other hand, if you want to reason, as I think Senator Stefano is proposing, about a different term (if not June 30, say the proposers which date they want to indicate), you can make an assessment by speeding up the verification procedures to which I referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u153	D'ONGIA (PI). If the Government is okay, let us rephrase the amendment by proposing the date of 30 April. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur agree with the new wording? ZANONI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u154	The amendment is therefore to be reworded with the date of 30 April. We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u157	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, we would have voted against this amendment. We can now accept the deadline of 30 April, but I would like to point out that the laudable intention is based on an optimism which unfortunately does not adhere to reality. The Regions, including the Region of Sicily, which are honored by having to comply with what is laid down in the law of stability, will hardly go to stabilize contracts by 30 April that, moreover, are not questioned in their extension from the forecast of the Government. On July 30 it could be the term and I also get to vote on April 30, taking it as a wish and an act of optimism. Woe if we weren't optimistic: we wouldn't be here!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u160	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, in addition to asking, as I informed the offices, to add my signature and that of Senator Finocchiaro to this amendment, I would like to announce the PD Group's vote in favour of rewording it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u163	D'ONGIA (PI). Mr President, I would like to say to Senator D'Ali that the regions are not obliged; they can proceed with their own resources to stabilize. It is a procedure that we start, but let's make sure those regions that have the resources can do it. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u164	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Luigi Marino and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 14.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u165	Amendment 1.4 has been withdrawn. Amendment 1.5 has been turned into an agenda accepted by the Government, so it will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.6, 1.7, 1.8 and 1.9 have been withdrawn, while Amendments 1,300 and 1,301 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.9- bis tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u168	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, because I believe that in some cases decisions are arbitrary and unfounded. In particular, I am referring to amendment 6.0.2 which concerns local authorities, the smaller islands, and is therefore absolutely relevant to the subject matter covered by the decree. I believe that decisions taken on behalf of third parties, whether by the Presidency of the Republic or by anyone, are absolutely incompatible with the rights of this House. The amendments can be rejected or approved and the Government expresses itself on them, but this is unacceptable and I refer specifically to my only amendment, which is absolutely relevant to the matters covered by the decree. I therefore renew a dispute which others have also raised in order to understand the reasons and sources from which these decisions derive. If I am told that it is the Presidency of the Republic, I ask on the basis of what powers and rules it may interfere with amendments concerning matters covered by the decree. It's intolerable. I understand that we are living in a rather anomalous and suspended condition, from all points of view, but, repeating the request that others have made, I would ask the Presidency to clarify this. Otherwise it doesn't even make sense: I write them directly to the Quirinale decrees, and that's okay! Moreover, there are already precedents of decrees made or not made on the basis of certain decisions. The Quirinale has a power of scrutiny, but by manifest inconstitutionality: not to prevent Parliament from discussing freely. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u169	The Presidency has decided in total autonomy, and therefore, since the matter is not debatable, ubi Major minor ceases: I return to the reading that was given earlier. Amendments 1.10, 1.302, 1.303 and 1.304 are unacceptable, while amendment 1.11 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u172	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are now calling for a return to the situation that existed before the Letta Government cut the budget of EUR 26 million for local TV. We know very well that local TVs are in dire conditions at this time of economic crisis. We also know that very often local TVs guarantee the pluralism of information that unfortunately RAI is no longer able to provide. In this regard we could open a great speech on the 2013-2015 service contract, which has not yet been approved: it is a disgrace of the first category! We therefore call for a return to the situation before the Led Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u175	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment, which is one of those on which the 5th standing Commission expressed its support for the lack of financial cover. Together with the other amendments which have been declared inadmissible on the subject, so that we consider them not to be the case, it is one of the issues which should have found a consistent hospitality with regard to the measure. Mr President, this measure would make sense - and that is why we shall be voting in favour of Amendment No 1.12 - if it were to implement the amendments discussed and adopted in the Commission in its own right. I therefore repeat the vote in favour of Amendment No 1.12 and would ask the authors if they would allow me to add the signature. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u176	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Senator Giovanardi's microphone is activated.]] Mr President, I am voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u178	I don't understand why Senator Giovanardi's microphone was activated without the President still giving him the floor. Anyway, please, Senator Giovanardi, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u179	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Maybe it was because I asked for the floor. This is the third time I have asked you: I have also done so on the two previous amendments. The third time I was lucky and I was given it. Maybe that's why. I exercise the right to vote against this amendment, but I would like to remind the House that this right - as my colleague Mr Gasparri has also pointed out - is within a combined arrangement: at a time when the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution are interpreted not only as necessity and urgency, but also as an interpretative homogeneity, and at a time when homogeneity is also referred to the same arguments present in the decree, and therefore there is a union not only of the Constitutional Court, but also of the Presidency with respect to parliamentary amendments on an act of the Government, the Parliament itself ends up being stripped of its prerogatives; in fact, the decree-law, for certain aspects preceding, that is, during the debate in the Chamber, and for others subsequent, with the Constitutional Court, risks not being modified even on specific homogeneous aspects, on the basis of interventions totally discretionary of the Presidency. I believe that Parliament must reflect on this issue. Mr Gasparri has rightly wondered why some of the amendments on this subject are being tabled in this House and can be voted on, while others - in this case the smaller islands - which are related to local authorities cannot be voted on. Then the Member of Parliament is in a position to be unable to exercise his mandate. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u180	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.16 and 1.18 have been withdrawn. Amendment 1.17 (text 2) is improbable. Amendments 1.20, 1.21 and 1.22, which are identical, have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u183	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, I withdrew Amendment No 1.19 and turned it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this agenda. ZANONI, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am also in favour of this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.19 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.23 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.25 and 1.26 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1,305 and 1,306 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.27 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.30-b and 1,307 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,308. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,308 tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.30 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.30-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.30- bis tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,309. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,309 tabled by Senator Villari. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.32 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.34 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.35. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.36, 1.37 and 1.38 are therefore incorporated. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,38-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 138-a, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.39 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u186	PERRONE (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask those present to be able to add my signature to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u187	The Presidency takes note of this. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.39 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fravezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.39- bis (correct text) is improbable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.40. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.40 tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.41 and 1.42 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,42-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,42-a tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.43 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.45 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.46. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.47. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.47 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.48 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.48 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.49. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.49 tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.50 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.51. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.52, 1.53 and 1.54 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.55.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u190	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, I would like briefly to explain the vote in favour of the Civic Choice amendment 1,55, which is the answer, as mentioned in the previous speeches, to an infringement of agreements between the majority parties which have seen the rule of the so-called D'Alia decree for the stabilisation of staff in state, regional and local public companies in deficit restored to the law of stability. Of this staff there is no real quantitative concentration, but surely there are thousands of employees who, if stabilized, as provided for in this decree, would obviously only increase and stabilize, forgive me the bickering of words, the deficit itself. This seems to us politically irresponsible, especially at a political stage in which the Democratic Party, with a new leadership and a government that is being born, we hope courageously and ambitiously, in these hours, has basically given an opposite direction, especially on these issues. It also seemed to us to be a measure, if not modified in the sense indicated by this amendment, which is unfair in social terms, because it would lead to inequality between employees of normal public companies, therefore not in deficit, who, on the other hand, benefit from and benefit from the integration fund, and other staff. On the basis of these reasons and on a fundamental political motivation, already briefly recalled by me, that is the hope and confidence that this new Government will see a historical phase of profound reformism, Civic Choice will vote favorably. This also gives rise to our position, more generally, on the measure. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u191	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Susta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.56. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,56, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.57 has been withdrawn. Amendment 1.58 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1.58, already accepted by the Government. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,59, which is identical to Amendment No 1.60. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senators Scavone and other senators, identical to amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Ceroni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.61 and 1.62 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.63. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.64 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,64-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,64-a tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1,65, 1.69 and 1.70 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.66, 1.67, 1.68, 1.71 (text 2) and 1.72 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1,200 (text 2), G1,201 (text 2), G1,202, G1,203 and G1,204 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.3, 1.0.350, 1.0.5, 1.0.351, 1.0.6, 1.0.7, 1.0.8 and 1.0.300 are unacceptable, while amendment 1.0.4 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u192	Mr President, I am aware that Amendment 2.1 is unlikely to be adopted, because it is probably too revolutionary, but I would like to leave a trace, in future memory, of the need to take into account the question that this amendment raises and which has outraged public opinion with regard to particularly favourable conditions which are reserved for constitutional bodies such as the House and the Senate and others. The amendment seeks to draw attention to the principle of self-declaration, to the fact that our House (and of course the corresponding Chamber) enjoys a treatment, a sort of management and verification reserve, which does not enjoy the rest of the public administration. The story of gold rents raises strong questions about the state of public spending. We must have the courage to address this issue, because it frees us from a judgment that we do not deserve for our most comprehensive activity, but on this point public opinion is right. Self-determination must be used to guarantee the democratic procedure within these classrooms; it must not guarantee special reservations in terms of the treatment of personnel, supplies or anything else relating to the normal management of these bodies. In this sense, Amendment 2.1 seeks to draw attention to this need, and we call for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u193	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 2.9, which is the only one I have signed and which I think is particularly important. I would like to have the attention of both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, because it is affecting the leasing contracts of public administrations, which have already been the subject of controversy between parties and political forces on previous occasions, when examining this decree. The request that we make, together with other colleagues who are signatories to the proposal, in the aim of reducing public expenditure, is to make the absence of a clause guaranteeing to the governments of the State (regions, local authorities and constitutional bodies) the possibility to withdraw from the leases due to the invalidity of the contract itself. I have read that there are other amendments dealing with existing contracts and allowing for withdrawal. Amendment 2.9 deals instead with new contracts that will be concluded from here on or renewals of contracts already concluded. A clear and definitive point must be made: all contracts which do not provide for a withdrawal clause are for this same reason declared null and void. This, in order to apply a best practice to all public administrations, which are required to include this withdrawal clause in new leases and renewals: this will allow public administrations, if they consider it necessary, in the ways in which the withdrawal clause will provide it, to abandon existing contracts, for reasons that will be necessary at that time, such as saving or seeking another lease. I believe that this amendment, which accords a certain degree of freedom to the public authorities, is essential in order to be able to go ahead and contract new leases without, however, making a definitive commitment, since this clause allows early withdrawal in case of necessity. The only way, in our view, is to provide for a clause specifying this clearly and allowing administrations to act in this direction. I hope that I have made this clear, and I hope that the House will vote in favour of this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u194	Mr President, the agenda that I am going to present stems from the transformation of Amendment 2.28. I have a short premise. A popular proverb says: There's never a day here. In my case, however, it is always a day and I add 'ordained', i.e. the agenda is to replace the common sense amendment on time. Allow me a little consideration. He was President Letta, the most complete and modern ineffable expression of the parmenid principle of the fixity and immutability of being, in a well-known television show he promised that he would resign from his assignment if he had cut funds for education. Since in the 2014 budget forecast compared to 2013, there are 23 million euros less one-off, consistency was: said and done, Letta is out, in contrast with the inconsistency that so much fashion in these Palaces. Let's get back to us. With the order of business G2.28 we ask to return the malt to some extent. We invite the Agency of State property, as responsible for the valorization of the real estate of the State and with a view to a correct use of the same, to identify public structures to be dedicated to the school, the research centers, the culture, the social and the families most in need. The immense heritage of the State, still underused today, must be retrained and made available to the community, especially in strategic sectors for the growth of our country and for the support of those who are most in difficulty. We must reduce soil consumption, cut the waste of public administration, through appropriate rationalization, and reduce, for example, the expenditure on those ten-year rents in structures sometimes lacking the requisite conditions, invest in human capital, offering, especially to our young people, all the structures we have. Let the Government, therefore, be committed, this time seriously, to hand over to young people all our structures and opportunities. Otherwise, this frigolian and cat-pardian majority has the courage to assume in front of young people the responsibility for choices that ignore the importance of training and research and to stop, therefore, using these arguments only as an adornment to his empty speeches in television parlors and newspapers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u195	Mr President, I am speaking because Amendment 2.32 has been declared inadmissible. You said just now that improbability is not questionable, in the sense that it is not open to appeal. I agree, as I agree, however, that in our republican system, since our Constitution was in force, there is no possibility of a decision, even of the President of the Republic, not motivated. The President of the Senate has read the principles affirmed by the Constitutional Court, and this amendment is in accordance with Article 2 of the decree-law, where we talk about the valorization of buildings, as it tends to value real estate in Santa Margherita Ligure and Cividale del Friuli, which derive from the Fascist Militia and are unusable. What is the reason for the impossibility, then, given that the amendment is in line with the last paragraph of Article 2? To say that the decision of the President of the Senate is not questionable does not mean that it must not be motivated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u196	We must first amend Rule 97 (3) of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u199	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, there are indeed two amendments to Article 2 which have indeed been declared to me... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Puglia, is your speech about the impproposability of the amendments? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u200	If this is the subject, then the topic is closed, because it is not in our discretion. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u201	I am against Amendment 2.1. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u202	I don't hear opinions. Please, colleagues, clear the hemicycle. There is a strong temptation to suspend Thursday afternoon's sitting if you continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u203	URAS (Misto-SEL). It would be good to suspend and postpone until after Monday! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, rapporteur. ZANONI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to say that on all the amendments relating to rentals... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u204	Colleagues, great. Let's suspend the session. Nor does it enable the rapporteur to express her opinions and motivate them and to continue to insist on speaking is an incredible thing. The sitting is suspended. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups. The sitting was suspended at 3.16 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.22 p.m.]] I would ask you, rapporteur, to give your opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u205	I am against Amendment 2.1. As far as Amendment 2.2 is concerned, I am making a premise. This is the only amendment on which I am in favour of all those put forward in the matter of public administration rents, and I explain the reason for that. It is inconsistent with the Commission's decision to reject all the amendments because the text of the decree seemed sufficiently clear and in line with all the requirements which had already emerged in Decree No 126. Therefore, the authors of Amendment 2.2 were also asked to withdraw it, because the former Undersecretary, Mr Berretta, had given assurances that the deadlines were six months and six months. We have reiterated this concept in the Commission. The present government has confirmed that that was the interpretation, however, because in these days we have found that there are people who read more behind this position and, since there is nothing else and that the amendment in question does not substantially change things (because it practically repeats the text of the decree keeping unchanged the dates), in contrast to what was decided in the Commission, I am voting in favour, I repeat, of amendment 2.2. I am therefore against Amendments 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5. I call on the proposers to withdraw the amendments from 2.6 to 2.20 if they are not, I would like to express a negative opinion on them. I am in favour of amendment 2.21 (text 2). I call on the authors of amendment 2.22 to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. The same applies to amendments 2.23, 2.24, 2.26 and 2.27. Amendment 2.28 calls for changes to the agenda. The text was presented and the opinion was in favour. I call on the authors of Amendment No 2.29 to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. The same applies to Amendment 2.33. Finally, I would like to express my support for the G2200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u206	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u207	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u210	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u211	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Buemi and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 2.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u214	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment. However, I am surprised that this decision has not been made official in a different way than through the expression of opinions. There had been an agreement in the Commission. In any case, the rapporteur's authority is such that I align myself with her opinion and vote in favour. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u215	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u218	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to put aside this amendment in order to reformulate it with the Undersecretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Undersecretary, I ask you whether you agree with this request for provision. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u219	Amendment 2.9 is therefore set aside. Amendment 2.10 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14, which is identical to Amendment 2.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.14, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci, identical to amendment 2.15, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.21 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.21 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.25, 2.302 and 2.303 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.26, which is identical to Amendment 2.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci, identical to amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G2.28 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u222	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u223	Amendments 2.30 and 2.31 have been withdrawn. Amendment 2.32 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the G2200 agenda will not be put to the vote. The G2,300 agenda is unacceptable, as are Amendments 2.0.1 and 2.0,300. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u224	Mr President, in Article 3 we have tabled a number of amendments which, in our view, could restore to this measure the dignity that has been lost over the last few months. The reason for this is simple: we have tabled amendments which merely call for the application of an existing law and for fairness throughout the national territory, given that we are talking about infrastructure, transport and public works, through a simple passage which, however, seems fundamental to us. We have done this with an amendment calling for the interpretation and application of the law on a rule that has not yet been adopted, so that all territories receive the same consideration from the State. Unfortunately, these amendments have been, in an arbitrary way, partly dismissed. They concerned local authorities, infrastructure, transport and public works - as it is written in the title of the measure - and so we see in them the appropriateness of the matter, which cannot be interpreted as someone may occasionally like it, and is clearly expressed. I'll get to the point. To ask that in Rome and in other territories we should pay - as we pay in Milan and Naples - the toll of the highways or part of them, it seemed to us a measure that would also bring dignity to this measure. I am referring to the Rome Raccordo ringulare. This, however, was done, not as someone intended, in a frank or preliminary way towards Rome or the Romans. Among other things, we act seriously, asking that the owner of the road, that is ANAS, legitimately, after a reconnaissance, can provide for any facilitations or even exempt from the imposition of new tolls residents and businesses if there are no alternative routes. It seemed to us, and it seems to us to be a sacred thing. On this we have fought an ideological battle not for the party but for all the territories, and I am not just referring to the fact that in Milan we pay the toll on the tangentials, because we also pay in Naples, and it seems to me a normal fact. But why, we ask ourselves, should we not pay the toll on the ring road in Rome? This was the occasion for the Roman friends to give dignity to the provision, and I remain quite perplexed that colleagues from Lombardy, Piedmont and Campania who, like us, pay the toll on their highways, have not torn their clothes to defend this sacred principle. I repeat that, for tolls, only the League has once again fought for the whole country: not only for the North, but also for the friends of Campania who always accuse us of being against everyone. We did it for you, too, bell tower friends, but unfortunately you all sleep. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senator Cardiello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u227	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Article 3 begins the examination of a series of amendments which the Presidency of the Senate has declared unacceptable. These are amending proposals on issues of great importance, which have been examined, voted on and approved in the Commission with the Government's favourable opinion, and all of them have the necessary coverage. These arguments, of course, have nothing to do with the question of their improbability, which has been declared due to lack of relevance between the subject dealt with by the individual amendments and the text of the measure. In view of the content of each amendment which has been declared inadmissible and the text of the measure, the question can at least be discussed: in my opinion, it does not appear to be so certain in one sense or another. On the other hand, there are certain consequences of the impproposability of these amendments, most of which have to do with very important problems of the communities and locations to which the measures adopted in the Commission were intended. The question also has implications for the organization of our work. On this subject, in fact, I think it would be desirable to have a line of communication between the presidency of the Senate and the presidency of the Commissions, or in any case a uniformity of judgment between the examination of the Commissions and the examination in this House. It is not so orderly for so many amendments to be considered positively in the Commission in their proposal, and vice versa, once approved by the Commission, to be treated differently in this House. I realize that the issue is very sensitive and very important, that the measure is delicate and that the stage of our parliamentary work is the one we know. However, I would like to ask the Presidency to consider whether it is appropriate to review the opinion expressed, perhaps by dismissing those amendments and dealing with the matter at the end of the examination of the whole measure. I believe, however, that it is worth examining the matter with a supplementary inquiry, given its extreme sensitivity. I regret to have to mention this, but - this is not a legal matter, but it is certainly a political one - the consequences of the failure to approve or even the failure of the Assembly to examine these amendments could be found, in many of the delicate realities of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u228	Senator Zanda, given the size and number of inproposities, that would be to set aside the entire measure. You should ask me something different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u231	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think Senator Zanda has posed a real problem. This is not the first time that we are faced with a legislative measure that I would like to call an ircocervo: that non-existent animal, half goat and half deer, that never existed in nature, but that often materialized in these classrooms. On these very occasions it seems to me very difficult and very complicated to define the lack of relevance of the amendments to the measure being converted. Objectively, we too have been surprised by the number of amendments that have been declared inadmissible, given that some of them had even been approved in the Commission and, therefore, the lack of coordination, as mentioned by Senator Zanda, between the Presidency of the Senate and the Presidency of the Commission is certainly a problem that is beginning to become important, for the good regularity of our work. I would like to respond to your request, Mr Calderoli: President Zanda has posed a problem, but he has not proposed a solution. The solution is probably to stop the examination of the measure, in order to check whether the Presidency is prepared to re-examine the impponibility of the amendments declared as such. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I think, however, that, in view of this kind of emphasis on the part of the first party represented in Parliament, we cannot allow it to remain a testimony to the poor quality of the work done here. I believe that the presidency of the Senate should at least address the problem, precisely in the terms in which it was placed. Dear Senator Zanda, you have posed a real problem: the measure is complex, and it seems to me that not everyone agrees perfectly with what is written and that many possibilities for improvement were contained precisely in the amendments that you said had been wrongly declared inadmissible or inadmissible. So, Mr President, the problem does not seem to me to be of little importance, nor does it seem to me to be appropriate to continue as if nothing had happened. I would therefore also like to put the question to the other group leaders: should we now, seriously, ask ourselves a question about what to do - let us return to the Commission? Shall we stop? Do we ask for a pause for reflection from the presidency of the Senate so that it can possibly review its opinion on the impponibility of the amendments themselves, which has rarely happened? - because we cannot allow this testimony and speech to remain without any effect for the House and its work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Davico.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u232	If the argument is that it is impossible, I cannot change the position expressed by the President of the Senate: I recall for the umpteenth time Rule 97, third paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure. If the Group's request is that the relevance of what has been declared is such as to justify the suspension, or what they would otherwise propose, is an account, but if it is a matter of proposing an amendment to what has been decided on the issue of inpropos, at this time I am not in a position to do so, for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u235	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have had the impression from Senator Romani's speech that I have not been clear. I have asked for the provision and review of the 13 amendments adopted in the Commission, and it seems to me possible to make provision for their review and for their eligibility at the end of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda, you can't put aside what doesn't exist for me right now. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u238	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I have been following the work of this measure for several days and I must say that the President of the Budget Commission has already made a great deal of loosening of the amendments tabled, for reasons of both matter and financial cover. The Commission has long been committed to examining the remaining amendments which, in my opinion, but - of course, my opinion is nothing compared to the opinion of the President of the Senate - were all in line with the financial nature, indisputable and finalized, as the title of the decree states, to ensure the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures in the fields of infrastructure, transport and public works and to allow interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters. It is clear that the range of interventions is wide, although everything is related to the indifferent financial character that is at the beginning of the title of the measure. In the light of Senator Zanda's speech, I believe that the provision of the amendments adopted in the Commission is not a practice that can be indicated as consistent either with our Rules of Procedure or with our way of proceeding or with the precedents of the Senate. I do not know if there is a precedent in the Senate of a suspension to allow the President of the Senate to re-examine his decisions in relation to decisions of inproposability. If so, I think this is the only way forward. In any case, we would refer to the evaluations of the President of the Senate because, unlike them, we can draw attitudes from the Groups about the measure in its entirety, but certainly not about a selection on our part, within the group of proposed amendments, between those that are feasible and those that cannot be proposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, the fact that I cannot put these amendments aside because they do not exist does not mean that we have rejected them and that therefore they are not to be voted on. Therefore, if, in the course of the examination, we make any changes, nothing will be foreclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u241	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you have rejected the provision of the 13 amendments, saying that, as far as it is concerned, they do not exist. Since some, in my opinion, are clearly feasible with regard to the matter, I formally ask, not you, because you cannot do so, but to the President of the Senate, a reconsideration of the unproposability declared. I assume the President of the Senate has been warned of this situation. Since we have the list of amendments, which are there and are neither approved nor rejected, I formally request that the impproponibilities be reconsidered and that the President of the Senate perhaps come to this House to inform us of his decision. In conclusion, the first amendment on which we dealt... Senator De Petris, we do not go into the substance of each amendment, because it is not really the case DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I do not go into the matter, but I think that we can calmly consider the idea of rethinking improbability. It is in fact clear to all the questions that arise and it is also clear that all this will affect the decisions of the Groups as regards their vote on the decree-law at our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u242	Colleagues, I have communicated to the President of the Senate what you are telling me. My personal suggestion is that, in the meantime, we shall proceed with the examination of all the other amendments, and then, in the light of your requests, we shall examine any changes to the positions already adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u245	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, we will respect the assessments that the President of the Senate will make. It is clear, however, that some of these amendments have had very variable majorities. The parameters of inproposability assumed in the Commission should, therefore, be assessed as a whole, because we have amendments that have been declared unpropos in the first phase and have not been voted on and amendments that have been adopted, but have been declared unpropos today. We then return to the evaluation of the President of the Senate, without making any questions, but I think it is urgent that this point should also be the subject of consideration by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is not possible that the amendments adopted in the Commission have a system of precariousness and management equal to that of the individual senators' amendments and do not form part of a text which comes to the House's attention. Otherwise, it is necessary that the second-degree verification of the admissibility of amendments compared to that declared by the President of the Commission takes place before the vote in the Commission. It is not acceptable for the Commission to approve a text which has its own balance, which is then demolished at a later stage. I therefore believe that one of these two avenues should be taken: either the Commission's text is sound as a proposal for the House or the President's second-degree eligibility judgment must intervene before the vote in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, it is also often the case that the 5th Commission then takes the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u248	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, this morning Senator Puglia spoke to ask for clarification of an amendment which was declared inadmissible, and the Presidency replied to him that nothing can be said, since it is a faculty of the President that is indisputable. I therefore believe that, having already examined two articles, we cannot now go fishing for just a few amendments: either we start again from the beginning and we all go over them again, or we leave the situation as it stands. It seems to me wrong to proceed in a different way, because the decision is indisputable to the President, and not the Commission: the President is a super party and has taken a decision on the matter, not verifying the positions of the majority, the opposition or the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u249	Colleagues, at the end of these speeches, I declare this phase exhausted because President Grasso has given reading of the impproponibilità and everything else. I am sorry that this debate did not take place then. The only intervention was that made by myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u252	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we had already raised this issue this morning. I think that the subject proposed by Senator Zanda, president of the largest group, is important. There is a serious impasse in this House, and I believe that President Zanda's statement is important. I would not want him to take the chestnuts out of the fire to the nascent Renzi Government which - as is known - does not want this measure, which is in fact uncomfortable for an Executive that is about to be born. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So I repeat what I said this morning, Mr Zanda. This measure must return to the Commission, or the Government must assume responsibility for withdrawing it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u255	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will speak very quickly. On other occasions it would be said "appreciated the circumstances." I have the impression that, in this case, the great majority of this House is putting the same problem, so there is no longer a question of majority or minority. The Rules of Procedure are absolutely prescriptive from this point of view and the power of the President is absolutely indispensable (in fact, this debate should not even take place in this House). However, Mr President, appreciate the circumstances, I think that instead of continuing, you should tell President Grasso that a problem has now been raised at a level that concerns all the groups. I think it is appropriate to solve the problem immediately where there is the possibility of a re-reading of the impproposability of the amendments, or we move on. However, to continue with this pollution, with this ambiguity of a text whose examination goes on not knowing whether those famous 15 amendments (or others) can be proposed again, frankly it does not seem to me that it is going in the direction of a good reading of a legislative measure already quite confused and complicated. I would ask you, therefore, officially to interrupt the debate in this House, to hear President Grasso (the suspension may take a few minutes) and to check his willingness to change his attitude to these amendments, to understand how the debate can continue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u258	Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I am speaking only because it is the Government's interest - and I believe Parliament's too - to reach an approval of this decree-law. Therefore, the comments that I will make in a very brief way on this subject, which has been raised by almost all the Groups in various ways, are aimed at ensuring - as President Zanda said - that the measure goes into port. It is perfectly clear to the Government that the presidential decision is unappellable, but it is a peaceful principle - and I dare say so - that any decision, although unappellable, is re-examineable and revocable. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] There have been rare cases in my memory, but they have occurred. Those who have presided over the Senate in the past years will certainly remember that, in the face of judgments of improbability on the ground, in several circumstances the presidency of the Senate has come to a change of decision. Very rare, if not null, have been the cases in which the judgment of inproposability has fallen on texts already admitted and already put to the vote by the President of the Commission. However, it is my view that, even in that case, there is still more power left in the President than the President of the Commission, although - I repeat - this power has been exercised, as far as I know, in very rare and very limited cases. I would add, Mr President, that we all know the constitutional case law on this issue. Many senators will recall the fact that, about a couple of years ago, the President of the Republic sent a note to the Chambers in this regard, recalling the Presidents, precisely for the laws of conversion of decree-laws, to comply with the principles and eligibility criteria that the Constitutional Court had indicated in relation to the assessment of the conditions of urgency relating to the content. However, we are in the presence of a case in which this measure - as I said also in the reply - does not have its own content in a homogeneous matter; in cases where it deals with a measure in the field of work, rather than justice, it is easy to assess its own content and it is also easy to identify whether an amending proposal is unrelated to the provisions contained in the decree-law or draft law. As we all know, however, we are in the presence of a measure which contains a plurality of provisions: it is true that the title does not define its content and that therefore the judgment of admissibility of an amendment cannot be referred to the said title, but the latter, in the present case, covers the extension by subject matter of the measure itself. Just think about these few words: "to ensure the functionality of local authorities." If there is an amendment that guarantees the functionality of a local authority - or that is aimed at doing so - it can be considered as acceptable, unless it says things that have nothing to do with the functionality. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say these things, I repeat, because - as we all know and as you have said - there is now no subject or suspension of the measure, because the Government hopes that it will be defined quickly and not as a provision, because the amendment is not there, since it has been declared impossible; it is clear, however, that the presidency of the Senate, until the end of the examination of the measure, can possibly revise these judgments, if it considers it (and whatever decision it takes, the Government will respect it). It can review these judgments by examining the content of the amendments themselves, which, in some cases, appears to be consistent with that of the decree itself (without questioning anything, I repeat).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u261	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, at some point demagogy ends up triumphing, and since everyone has been practicing on this issue of the homogeneity of norms, from the Government to the Groups, we now come to the point where, in fact, the sovereign power of the legislator is lacking (because then we get to it, to be too dull). So we have come to this, because there has been a race, this time to the declaration of inproposability by matter. By pressing to agree with whatever solution is found. The only one that I do not see well is the one that, compared to the work of the Commission, chooses between one and the other, which could constitute an even greater vulnus than what we are currently observing. It would therefore be worse - and I address the Government - to discern between one and the other, while there is a general and unappellable judgment of the President. As President of the Commission - who, moreover, is exactly the one over whom we have gone - I can only respect it in full and must be fully respected in the work of the Commission: either everything is removed or everything is admitted. One recommendation I would like to make to all the senators and all the senators: all those who practice with the iPads and similar know that, to communicate immediately what happens, then we get to this, that is that in fact the power of the legislator is frustrated, or at least very limited, but it is certainly no longer sovereign. This time, however, it is not the external organs that do this, but we are self-censoring: we have come to this. Whatever the solution, however, I believe that this time Parliament can easily write a parliamentary page that reaffirms its sovereignty, and that is what I care about. Simple. First of all, there is the instrument of the bill, which is not subject to the limits laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution, and it could also be called, for example, 'Miscellaneous Rules'; I say that with a hint of provocativeness, but no one in that case could challenge us: Parliament would do so. With an agreement between the Groups, the rules already discussed and approved by the Commission would be inserted (it was all timely: those amendments were adopted, plus three exact ones) and one could quickly, with a choice of the Groups (I believe that the President of the Senate agrees on this), bring them to the Assembly. I am well aware that this is not possible in the event of a government vacuum, but this provision must also go to another room. But in this case the parliamentary and political will can best express itself and bring the text to the House from the writing office, which is a place that few people use, but which, in my opinion, without making major regulatory changes, is the most appropriate one. These are issues that are widely addressed in the Commission. We come to the House; there is the only final vote (it is a procedure already provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I do not invent anything new, I would not be able to do so) and immediately we adopt a law, with a rapidity, where the path is urgently chosen by the Conference of the Leaders, immediately. Except for the fact that we are in a crisis of government, and here, undersecretary Legnini, leader Zanda, group leader Sacconi, we see the strength of Parliament, even with regard to the possible new Government. If you decide that there is this work, Parliament says so, and it does so with the parliamentary instruments, verifying that there are the needs to which I believe (and, in fact, the witnesses: if I have admitted them and they have been discussed and, even, some of them have been approved, it means that there was this judgment). In this way we do not harm what must not be harmed, that is the unappellable prerogative of the President of the Senate in the Assembly (as well as those of the Presidents of the Commissions in the various Commissions) and we arrive at an immediate parliamentary expression. There is a political agreement and there are approved rules; all those that have been passed into a bill that is not subject to the constraints of Article 77 of the Constitution and, in writing, it is approved very quickly. If there are no other solutions, I believe that this could prevent us from running on a further dangerous slope from today, which is leading us from a Parliament subject to so many other bodies (which disapply the rule, which do not apply it, etc.) now to self-censorship. Before we get to that, let us give a moment, let us find an instrument and, within the framework of the existing Regulations, let us write a good parliamentary page. [[Applause from the NCD, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u264	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are talking about method and coherence. We have all seen that from January to today the examination of the impproposability of the amendments has been carried out and applied by the President of the Senate in a strict manner. This allowed several decrees to be approved in these rooms. Therefore, my speech is a method: if there is a nickname for the decision of the President of the Senate, this must also be applied to all the other decrees so far hesitated, and not only to this (because, perhaps, we touch interests that concern this or that political force). It is a matter of coherence and method. Maybe let's stop, but let's make a much broader and more radical reasoning. Consistency and method, always. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u265	Colleagues, at this point, the matter is over. Unless the House, by a majority, proposes something different - and I have not heard this majority - my proposal is to proceed. I repeat: the President of the Senate has been informed. We are examining a decree-law, so we do not approve any article and do not preclude anything that may be declared unprobable. If things stay like this, you put your soul in peace.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u267	Don't come back to me on the question of suspensive, because Senator Bitonci has already made it today and has not received any consent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u268	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to return to the Commission in writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u269	Colleagues, we're talking about pears and apples here. Senator Azzollini proposes to convert the decree and to transform what has been declared improbable into a bill to be dealt with in writing. But this does not mean assigning the measure to the drafting board. It seems to me that there is not a majority available to the suspensive, so we must proceed with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u272	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business because of a different problem. At the Conference of the Leaders we asked for an interruption of work at 3 p.m. in order to be able to hold the assembly of joint parliamentary groups. We have not been given this possibility. We have waited another hour, waiting and looking forward to the completion of the examination of the measure. We postponed the meeting of the groups to 4.15 p.m., so we are now obliged to leave the Chamber, but not in protest of the work, as they have been so far (although we have some reason to do so). I would therefore like to inform you that we are leaving the work of this House for the group meeting, which we decided to hold at 4.15 p.m. with President Berlusconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u273	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u274	Mr President, as far as the amendments to Article 3 are concerned, I have one positive assessment... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u275	I don't feel anything. Colleagues, either free the hemicycle or I'll go up to the president this time. After that, we'll have plenty of time to assess improbability. Please, Madam Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u276	ZANONI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am only in favour of Amendment 3.7. I would also have voted in favour of Amendments Nos 3.15 and 3.33, which are, however, unacceptable. On all the other amendments I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u277	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u278	Amendment 3.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Comaroli and Bitonci to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.9 and 3.10 are unacceptable. Amendment 3.11 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.14, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.15 (text 2), 3.17, 3.19, 3.20, 3.22, 3.23, 3.24, 3.25 and 3.26 are unacceptable, while Amendments 3-18 and 3.21 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,26-a. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,26-a, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,300 tabled by Senator Mussini. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.27, 3.301, 3.28, 3.29, 3.30, 3.31, 3.32, 3.34 and 3.35 are unacceptable. Amendment 3.36 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.37, tabled by Senators Bitonci and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.38, 3.39, 3.41, 3.43, 3.44, 3.45, 3.46 and 3.302 are unacceptable. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda presented in Article 3. ZANONI, rapporteur. The opinion was in favour of the G3.42 agenda. On agendas G3,200, G3,201, G3,202, G3,203, G3,204, G3,205 and G3,300, the opinion is in favour provided that the word "committal" is replaced by the word "invited" (unless there is a double invitation). Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3.42 and G3200 will not be put to the vote. Senator Nencini, do you accept the proposal for an advanced reformulation G3.201? NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3201 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Manassero, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G3.202? Mr Manassero (PD). Yeah, I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.202 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Cantini, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G.203? CANTINI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G3,203 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Santangelo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G3204? SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I have not quite understood what the proposal is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me that it is a question of including the words 'to evaluate'. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to hear from the rapporteur. ZANONI, rapporteur. I propose to replace the words "the Government" with the words: "invite the Government" unless there is a double invitation. I said that because we gave a general opinion on all the agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He then proposed to replace the word "engaged" with the word "invited." SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I believe that this is a substantial change. I would ask that the initial formula be reconsidered. A little courage, a little bit more! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stress the commitment. ZANONI, rapporteur. If the representative of the Government agrees, we can use the formula that is committed to assessing whether it is appropriate to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's the version I said. I invite the representative of the Government to speak. Mr Bubbico, Deputy Minister for the Interior. The Government's opinion is in favour of this wording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, do you accept the proposed reformulation? SANTANGELO (M5S). Yeah, I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3204 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the proposed rewording of the G3205 agenda? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). There is no rewording, because the agenda already commits the Government to assess the opportunity of rewording. So he's committed to evaluating. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3205 will not be put to the vote. Senator Cioffi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda of the 3300th advanced?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u279	Mr President, no one is denied an agenda. However, I do not want the agenda with the written text to consider the opportunity to do so. Either you have the courage to do things or you don't. Just say it: you don't have the courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The government isn't there anyway, so this government is committed to what? He's not here. Let us then vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u280	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the agenda of G3,300, presented by Senator Cioffi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.0.1 and 3.0.2 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u281	I am in favour of Amendments 4.19 (text 4) and 4.33 (text 2). It would have been in favour of 4.0.3, but it was declared inadmissible. With regard to all the other amendments, I call on the proposers to withdraw them, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u282	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u283	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments referred to in Article 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Bitonci and Comaroli to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u286	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, we withdraw Amendments 4.4, 4.5 and 4.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u289	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u292	Milo (GAL). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 418.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u295	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I understand that some people are standing right in front of you, but on those who stand side by side sometimes even look up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Milo had asked for the floor earlier. He was right before, but now... Look to the right, President. I have heard the rapporteur's views and I would like clarification. I imagine that we have given a favourable opinion on text 4 of amendment 4.19, the one adopted in the Commission, as well as on text 2 of 4.3%.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u296	Exactly, it is. Amendment 4.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.4 and 4.5 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.7 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitons I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.16 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,17.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u299	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, 4.17 is the amendment we have discussed for a long time with the rapporteur and with Senator Santini. This amendment indicates the actions which, within a two-year plan, the Municipality of Rome is required to carry out in order to eliminate the structural causes of the deficit in its budget. Within this, there are a number of requirements, including the issue of how to manage local public services and the disposal of shares in holdings, on which there are differing views. Our confrontation with the rapporteur and Senator Santini (which I would ask you to listen to) had led us to a possible point of synthesis that, with very common sense, Senator Santini had recognized to be founded and justified. This agreement, which would have removed from our amendment or the agreed amendment the question of the further disposal of shares in listed companies, has obviously been blown away from the external constraints of the Roman parties, so it was impossible to find an agreement, because in the text that the rapporteur and Senator Santini have then reworded, and which is eventually reworked in amendment 4.19 (text 4) two fundamental references have disappeared: the first is to a constraint to a mode of management of public services that makes them actually efficient; the other, more serious, is to the disposal of all those companies in house that have increased the number of employees improperly of about 4,000 units in the last two years and that the municipality must cover at the foot of the list. So, we maintain our amendment 4,17, we propose sub-amendments to the Commission's amendment and we warn the House that, since that amendment will clearly not be sufficient to achieve structural consolidation measures, in a short period of time, which I estimate not more than two years, we will have to offset some other billions of deficit produced by the Municipality of Rome. This is a responsibility that we assume today in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u300	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u302	Mr President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote on Amendment 4.17 and Amendment 4.20, which is essentially similar, proposed by our Group. It is clear that we are talking about something absolutely fundamental. On the whole of the measure, this amendment is of paramount importance because it concerns structural reform. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour, otherwise with these kinds of rules that are now being brought to the approval of the Senate they give negative examples to the other municipalities. The message is that those who ultimately fail to take seriously the responsibility of managing well and putting the train back on track when it goes off track can continue its journey instead. In this respect, we absolutely agree with the amendment and say to the other Groups in the Senate: take responsibility for you, if you want, to continue derailing the train in Rome. The problem is that these costs, in the end, we are paying all of us, because the bad management done over the years to the Municipality of Rome and that Marino is now continuing to do with this type of measures to which you give support is bringing the entire country into the abyss, because these are negative examples that do not lead to the restoration of public finance, but instead lead to the loss of credibility to the entire system. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u303	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u305	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, there has been a very long debate in the Commission on this subject, as everything has been discussed, then we have also voted and we have also found that the work done by the Commission is, as it were, hung up and not always led to proper recognition. The work of the Commissions, which are born to examine in depth the subjects to be discussed, must also be reconsidered from the point of view of the organisation of Parliament's work and powers. There are some things that can be done sooner than later and that would be more useful to do sooner than later, so we focus on the part of the provision that is saved. Then on this subject I will speak in a special way when we deal with the examination of Article 7 which has been reserved for Sardinia: an unworthy article of a democratic government! I repeat: it is unworthy of a democratic government! But on this point we have joined and will vote in favour of amendment 4.19 (text 4), because we think it is the minor damage, and not because we think it is a good thing. We think it's the least damage compared to a situation that hasn't originated in a few months or even a few years. And while we watched other rulers, or rather swerving this country and building an immense public debt, others participated! And it is no longer tolerable that the lesson is given by those who are direct and immediate responsible for this breakdown! [[Applause from the Mixed SEL Groups, PD]] and M 5 S).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u306	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u308	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, we of the People's Group for Italy remember that the Government, adopting this decree-law, and in particular Article 4, paragraph 1, has not put conditions for a further intervention of national finance in favour of the Municipality of Rome. Compared to this fact, Senator Lanzillotta, Senator Milo and Senator Santini together with others have tabled three amendments to condition what the Government, with article 4, paragraph 1, did in favor of the Municipality of Rome. I therefore think it is right that it should be noted that the Senate intends with these three amendments - then Senator Milo has joined Amendment 4.19 (text 4) - to lay down conditions. Our position is that the conditions to be laid down for the Municipality of Rome must be very clear, precise and binding. From this point of view, in view of the attempts at mediation which have taken place in the Commission or which have been attempted in the Commission, Amendment 4.17 is much more precise, more significant and more decisive than Amendment 4.19 (text 4). That is why our Group will vote in favour of Amendment 4.17 and will abstain on Amendment 4.19 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u309	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u311	Milo (GAL). Mr President, in the Commission I have tabled amendment 4.18, which is exactly the rule laid down by this House on the draft Act No 1149, namely the old decree on local authorities. Mr Luigi Marino is right when he says that I withdrew my amendment in order to join Amendment 4.19 (text 4), but this is not the amendment tabled by Senator Santini. We have agreed to the Commission's amendment, which is not the original text but text 4, because we have achieved a political-administrative balance on this text, in the sense that we felt that it was even better than the one that was fired by this House on draft law No 1149. Therefore, Amendment 4.19 (text 4) was signed by Senator Santini and signed by my colleague, Mr D'Alì. We therefore believe that we have done a good job for the Municipality of Rome in relation to this. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u312	We shall proceed to the vote on amendment 4.17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.18 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.19 (text 4/150). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.19 (text 4/150, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.19 (text 4/151).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u313	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u314	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u315	Montevecchi (M5S). Is the amendment to the vote contained in the file? PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is contained in the added sheets, which I have them brought in immediately. Montevecchi (M5S). We should have them before the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've been in distribution since the beginning of the session, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u316	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u317	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u318	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, these amendments were not distributed at the beginning of the sitting. I would like to make this point. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u319	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 4.19 (text 4)/151, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.19 (text 4). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.19 (text 4) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.20 and 4.21 are therefore incorporated. Amendments 4.22 and 4.23 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.27, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4,28 and 4,29 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.30 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u320	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u322	Mr Lezzi (M5S). In the previous vote, the electronic voting system did not work properly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u323	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.31, tabled by Senators Bitonci and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.32, tabled by Senators Bitonci and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.33 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.33 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.34, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 435. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.35, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.36, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 437. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.37, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 438. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.38, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.39, 4.40, 4.0.1, 4.0.2 and 4.0.3 (correct text) are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u324	Mr President, with Amendment 5.5 we are proposing a subject which we had already discussed in this House and which we had already approved, both as a motion (which was then accepted by the Government as a recommendation) and as an amendment adopted in a decree which was not subsequently converted. Well, with this amendment we propose the reopening of the DIA office at Milan Malpensa airport. This office is of fundamental and strategic importance for the fight and the contrast to organized crime because, at this moment at our airports there is only one office, that of Fiumicino, that deals with this type of investigation. According to the 5 Star Movement, concentrating in a single office, at such a large distance from Milan, the investigation of passenger movements is absolutely negative for the conduct of investigations. Moreover, from this office investigations of absolute importance have passed, both for the contrast of the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra as well as for important investigations in Lombardy on organized crime. We therefore propose this amendment again and we trust in the same majority that approved it in the last part-sessions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u325	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u326	I am against all the amendments that have been declared admissible in Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u327	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u328	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u329	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u330	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I shall speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 5.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u331	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u332	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u333	Colleagues, we are not voting on Amendment 5.5. If, however, you wish to speak now, please, advance the explanation of vote. Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u334	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I shall be very brief. This is a very important amendment, which must necessarily find support beyond the political groups and groups. When we talk about the fight against crime, when we face a great demonstration which will be Expo 2015, there can be no partisan distinction. I hope that, in this case, there will be sufficient awareness on the part of the Groups that they will not miss this new opportunity and that there will be a united position to show that there is a clear voice in opposing them in relation to organised crime and the Mafia. Opening this new facility inside Milan Malpensa Airport in view of Expo 2015 is crucial.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u335	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u336	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u337	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I too am in favour of voting on Amendment 5.5. I would like to remind Senator Giarrusso that we have placed this theme of reopening several times, because the office of the DIA in Malpensa had already been established and was then closed. The magistrates, all the investigative activities and the same DIA have several times told us that the investigative activities are not carried out in the offices and that the police and border controls are guaranteed by other Forces of the order. Therefore, they prefer to use resources more appropriately on other land and avoid unnecessarily reopening an office (which would cost, in terms of both men and rent), since the choice of closure was a reasoned choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u338	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u339	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u341	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u342	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bottici and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 5.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u345	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, since this morning, Senator Silvestro has been voting for Mr Sposetti who is not here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's Senator Spousetti. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). No, ma'am, don't tell me that. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u346	Senator Ciampolillo is right. Despite his advanced age, Senator Sposetti must vote like everyone else, otherwise he forces me to take positions that I would never want to take. (Exchange of jokes of Senators Spousetti and Ciampolillo). Senator Spousetti, please. Thursday afternoon, at 4.45 p.m., we need a good riot in this House, which leads to a further deepening of eligibility, apparently.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u347	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u348	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u349	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would ask, in accordance with Rules 107 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure, if we can proceed with the verification of the quorum in this House before the next vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u350	We cannot, because, having asked for electronic voting on the whole of Article 5, the request for electronic voting prevails. If you wish, we shall do so at the vote on the next item. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,300. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u353	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I must reluctantly withdraw Amendment 5.3. I remind everyone that the 5 Star Movement is against the Expo, against the Tav, against everything that seems not useful to us. [[Comments from the PD desks]] However, I would like to stress that the Expo is justified for a showcase speech and, therefore, an incentive for economic development. Well, in this amendment I gave space to small businesses, those that are always forgotten and do not receive funding. I would therefore like to stress that with the Expo we will probably make unnecessary expenses and certainly will not benefit the supporting and vital structure of our country, that of small and medium-sized enterprises that are always forgotten and remembered only when they have to pay taxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u354	Amendment 5.4 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.5, which is identical to Amendment 5.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u355	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u356	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u357	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to sign Amendment 5.5 and declare the vote in favour, knowing that it is an irrational form of intervention on the organisation of the Forces of Order. We believe that in the absence of the government as well as a pronunciation... president. The Government is present. He's wandering around, but he's here. I confirm that. URAS (Misto-SEL). We need to see him from time to time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He knows that the government is on the move at this time. URAS (Misto-SEL). It makes sense, ma'am. The absence of the Government can be interpreted in many ways. Although this legislative provision is an irrational way of solving a real problem, in the absence of a pronunciation that could have been manifested more concretely in these hours also by the Department of the Interior, although resigned, we are in favour of the re-establishment of this garrison at Malpensa airport.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u358	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u360	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would just like to make one point: the fight against the mob is not with two policemen at Malpensa airport; that must be clear. Therefore, these positions are populistic, demagogic and give no effective answer to the issue of the fight against the Mafia in Italy, which uses sophisticated tools to do its business and two policemen in Malpensa care. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u361	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u363	Milo (GAL). Mr President, I am delighted by Mr Buemi's last statement, also and especially because this text (I proposed amendment 5.6) was proposed in the old decree-law, approved by this House, and on it they voted for confidence in the House, so I do not understand what has changed from 28 December to 20 February. I do not understand how it is possible for this majority to propose the amendment, approve it to the Senate and the House and then, if proposed by other parties in this House, it is no longer valid because two policemen in Milan Malpensa do not serve. You should explain to us what all this means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u364	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u366	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I support the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u367	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u368	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u369	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to add to Amendment 5.5 the signatures of all members of the 5 Star Movement Group and then to mention only one of the great operations that have been carried out through that small police core in Malpensa. In the famous operation conducted by the prosecutors of Milan and Reggio Calabria it was possible to identify one of the main elements that collaborated actively with the money laundering of the 'ndrangheta: a Maltese of which one did not even have the photograph that passed and reviewed from the airport of Malpensa, and that only with the surveys on the spot were able to identify. This, however, is just one of the many operations that two people did in that office, which cost nothing to the State and which someone intended to suppress. It is not true that the Forces of Order had said that it was useless, because we have the document in which the director of the DIA said it was strategic; obviously, the director changed priorities and the office was deleted without any motivation, because that of saving money is false, colleagues! It's fake! [[Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u370	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators, identical to amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.7 and 5.8 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.0.1 tabled by Senator Mandelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Mandelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.0.3 (text 2), 5.0.5 (text 2), 5.0.6, 5.0.7, 5.0.8 and 5.0.9 (text 2) are unacceptable, while amendment 5.0.4 (correct text) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u371	I would like briefly to ask the President - as my fellow Members have already done - to review the opinion that two amendments, the 6.0.1 and 6.0.2, which also bear my signature, cannot be accepted, and I would like to explain why. Since we are talking about provisions of an indisputable financial nature, aimed at guaranteeing the sole functionality for local authorities, with reference to the smaller islands, not to the punctuality of a local authority, there are several municipalities that with this landing tax could put their budgets in place. The urgency lies mainly in the fact that we are close to an important season for the smaller islands. I therefore ask the Presidency to reconsider its opinion of imponibility on the amendments in question, because in this case, we will all be guilty or we will be responsible for the default of dozens of municipalities in the smaller islands, which are such in the name, but not in the facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u372	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments. ZANONI, rapporteur. Mr President, on all the amendments referred to in Article 6, I call on the authors to withdraw them, otherwise my opinion is against them. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u373	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u375	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u376	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u377	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u379	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I declare that my vote will abstain on the first amendment referred to in Article 6, but also on all the others. The reason is that they, including the two of which they are signatories (the 6.13 and 6.16), were cut off by the decision of the President of the Senate. I should like to point out that, in my humble opinion, the President of the Senate's statement - and that is why I will abstain and, at the end of the day, I will not vote in favour of the whole measure - is wrong in fact and in law. (16.58) (Follows CASSON). If I agree in theory - and I agree with that - with the general approach taken by both the Constitutional Court and the intervention of the supreme institutional bodies on the need to ensure compliance with the Constitution in the issuing of decree-laws, I think - and I always say this in earnestly - that, in the present case, that is, Article 6, and in particular the two amendments I mentioned, an error has been made in fact and in law, especially in the concrete application of that general principle, which is certainly positive and to be respected. I say this because, as one of his previous speeches reminded the representative of the Government, the Undersecretary Legnini, it is sufficient not only to read the title of the decree-law, but also to check article by article, in particular Article 6, the correspondence of the amendments that have instead been sifted - and in particular those that I mentioned - to the general approach of the decree-law. When it is pointed out specifically and not by chance that this financial intervention refers to indisputable requirements aimed at ensuring the functionality of local authorities, the amendments which specifically refer to this - that is to say to ensure that local authorities are able to function and overcome even emergency situations - I believe that they are absolutely part of the constitutional charter's predictions as well in law as in fact. I also believe that the decision of the Senate Presidency has constituted - so to speak an offense to the work of the Commissioners. In fact, all the Commissioners of all the political groups had arrived, in particular on the amendments I mentioned, at a unanimous and painful decision, together with the Government. It does not seem very acceptable to me to see the work being reduced or cancelled in this House now. All the more so since I remember how recently, on yesterday's day, we examined and voted in this House a decree-law, the empty prisons, in which there were certainly impossible amendments. We have voted on a few hundred, perhaps 400 or 500, and in that case no one has considered that there were also unacceptable amendments. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is certainly true, pursuant to Rule 97 (3) of our Rules of Procedure, that the decision of the Senate Presidency is unappellable; but it is also true that the concept of inappellability does not coincide with that of irrevocableness, both in law and in fact. In fact, in law the concept is clear and in fact it has happened, even in the last legislation in which I have been able to participate, that there have been cases, melius re perpensa, of modification. I would like to address the call, which has been made by other colleagues, to re-examine the issue of improbability. In this situation, however, I shall abstain from voting on all the amendments to Article 6 and, rebus sic statibus, in the end I will not participate or be able to vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u380	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u381	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u382	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The support for voting by electronic means, which implicitly checks the quorum, has already been verified.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u383	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u384	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u385	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I too would like to reiterate what has been said by Senator Casson with force and determination. I would like to express my deep uneasiness, while respecting (not sharing) the decisions taken by our President. Mine is a great discomfort and a great displeasure for what is happening with particular reference to Amendments 6.15 (text 3) and 5.4. These amendments concern the same subject and had been adopted during the discussion on the previous decree "Salva Roma," which passed to the Assembly, but was then blocked on 28 December (as we remember, it was withdrawn). Well, these amendments, thanks to the work of the Senators of the Commission, had already been approved in the Budget Committee and in this House at the Rome Save, have been approved once again in the Budget Commission and have passed the other steps. Sorry this happened today. I also hope that the position can be revised.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u386	Senator, I understand the inconvenience and also the regret for the decision of the President, who is also unappellable about the impponibility. However, I would like to say that this cannot be interpreted as a lack of respect for the work of the Commission. However, allow me to point out that just what you mentioned implicitly confirms the judgment of inproposity stated by the Presidency: the outcome of that bill of conversion was not happy precisely because of what Chamber and Senate added in the law of conversion as you know. Therefore, you implicitly confirm the validity of the Presidency's judgment. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.5 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 6.6 and 6.7 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.8 tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 6.9, 6.2000 (text 2), 6.10, 6.302, 6.11, 6.301, 6.12, 6.13, 6.14 (text 3), 6.16 (text 2), 6300, 6.17, 6.18 and 6.19 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.20, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 6.21, 6.22 and 6.23 have been withdrawn. Amendments 6.24, 6.25, 6.0.1, 6.0.2, 6.0.3 (text 3), 6.0.4, 6.0.5, 6.0.6, 6.0.7, 6.0.300, 6.0.8, 6.0.9 and 6.0.10 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u387	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u388	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u389	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is First we have to explain the amendments, Senator Ciampolillo, then I believe that electronic voting will be required.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u390	Madam President, the amendments we had proposed had a purpose, which unfortunately was largely affected by the declaration of inadmissibility and inadmissibility. Article 7 expressly and exclusively concerns Sardinia in accordance with the stated content of the measure, i.e. intervention in favour of populations affected by natural disasters. I have expressed a very strict political opinion on the action envisaged in this measure, saying that Article 7 is unworthy of a democratic government, because it has dealt with Sardinia in several stages, one after the other, including those that have consumed themselves on this day and here in a particularly disrespectful way. It reminded the Sardinian citizens and the Sardinian community that the Government would prepare and support interventions in favour of those populations and instead the only thing it knows how to produce is to put the system of small and very small Sardinian enterprises in the hands of the loan system, for the purpose of paying taxes due, moreover suspended and for a long time in all the other parts of Italy that have been hit by natural disasters. Starting from the appropriations provided for in the Stability Act... [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, we are talking about populations who have paid a tribute...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u391	Colleagues, we should allow Senator Uras to make his speech, otherwise it will be difficult to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u392	URAS (Misto-SEL). ...heavy even in terms of human lives. There are hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros of damage to infrastructure, which is difficult to repair, and there is a situation in which all the appropriations that had been planned to support those populations have disappeared, at the will of the Government. All the amendments that we have proposed, including the amendment on the re-financing of the sums earmarked for the reclamation of the Maddalena archipelago, where hundreds of millions of euros have been squandered by civil protection, including illegal actions, subject to criminal proceedings. I remember that in that area we have built, with public funds, hotels that cannot open and that are also deteriorating from the structural point of view. All the amendments relating to Sardinia have been dismissed. The only measure by which action is taken is that of handing over the Sardinians to the loan service of the credit institutions. Mr President, I will vote against this measure twice. Once because it is insufficient, inadequate, messy and unconstitutional at its origin. I will also vote against because the measure is against my community; because it is against a piece of Italy; because once again a population is saddened by all kinds of damage resulting from the crisis and the consequences of a particularly ferocious and criminal natural disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u393	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u394	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u395	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, if the stage of the explanation is over, I shall advance the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u396	I take note of your request. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u397	Madam President, the amendments we adopted on Article 7 have all been declared unacceptable. Therefore, I call for all remaining amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. Mr President, I would ask you, however, whether the proposal that I have tried to submit as rapporteur would also be improbable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u398	Senator Zanoni, the offices say yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u399	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u400	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u401	What do you wish to speak on? Mr PUGLISI (PD). The rapporteur's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not in question. Mr PUGLISI (PD). This is really a matter of urgency, of dramatic urgency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Puglisi, I can't let you speak because there is an unappealable judgment, and this proposal is not under discussion. You will be able to speak in the explanation of vote. Mr PUGLISI (PD). But, Mr President, there are 11,000 jobs at stake, and the schools that are closed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Puglisi. Mr PUGLISI (PD). I would ask you to reconsider the admissibility of the amendment. Article 7 refers to CONSIP races. Schools are inexhaustible because they are not clean and contracts expire on 28 February. This is a one-month extension to allow the new government to intervene. I would ask you to reconsider the eligibility of this amendment by the rapporteur, which is adequately covered from a financial point of view. It is not possible for this to happen when there are jobs at school, but above all the rights of students.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u402	[[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u403	Senator Puglisi, I cannot open a debate on this amendment. The matter is for the President's attention, but I cannot allow him to speak any further. Therefore, we must move on to the debate on the amendments which are admissible and which we are now called to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u404	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u405	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u406	CUCCA (PD). Madam President, I would like to join in what Senator Uras said a moment ago. I will speak later in an explanation of vote because it will clearly be a dissenting vote by the Group on the content of this measure which, apart from the good intentions and what has been promised in vain to Sardinia, mortifies this territory. It has been decided to bring it to its knees: it is already a dead economy and we are finally burying it. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups and the Senator D'ongia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u407	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u408	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u409	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u410	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u411	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Amendments 7.1 and 7.4 have been withdrawn. Amendments 7.2, 7.3, 7.300 and 7.5 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.6 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.7 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.8 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendments 7.9 (text 3), 7.10 and 7.11 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known. ZANONI, rapporteur. I am in favour of the adoption of both agendas, provided that the word "committed" is replaced by the word "invited." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the government accept the two agendas so reworded? Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7200 (text 2) and G7201 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 7.0.1 to 7.0.32 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.0.33.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u412	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u413	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u414	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to check the presence of the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u415	We must proceed to the vote on the amendment, and we shall implicitly check it with the vote. The request for electronic voting was previously made by Senator Ghedini. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are in the vote, Senator: what are you talking about? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I would like to ask for a separate vote on the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not believe that your request can be accepted. However, one speaker may speak in favour and one against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u416	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u417	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u418	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, we are asking for a single vote: we are opposed to a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u419	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u420	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u421	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it is often the case that in an amendment there is one part that is acceptable and another part that is less and, then, it seems to me that it is a simple and sensible operation to vote for it separately, giving it the opportunity to accept one part of it rather than another. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Mr President, I would like to put it to the vote separately, since there are two different positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u422	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u423	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u424	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). If we have to proceed to a vote by show of hands, we ask that the quorum be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u425	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT).]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 7.0.03, tabled by Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bulgarelli and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.0.33. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.0.032 is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u426	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u427	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u428	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. So far we have dealt with the issue raised by President Zanda with the Vice Presidents, who obviously do not have the formal character of being able to address the problem directly. Now I think I've seen President Grasso. Much of this House, for different reasons, political sensitivity or form, has called for clarification on impponibility. Given that there is an opportunity and that the Groups have spoken so widely - let me finish: since I have been quiet for five hours, one minute you can give me - I think we should give a reply, not so much because you do not have the authority or did not have it President Calderoli. This would prevent speculation about who represents the Senate and the Senate Assembly. I think we need a little clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u429	Senator Volpi, I was looking forward to letting you know that the President had looked out. It awaits the end of this phase and will certainly assume the Presidency, bearing in mind that when you sit here what is expressed is the line of the Presidency and not a personal opinion, because otherwise it would be impossible. Let us conclude these votes, and then I will leave the Presidency to President Grasso. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments relating to the single article of the bill of conversion, which are described. Amendment x1.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u430	I am in favour of amendment x1,1000 and against amendment x1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u431	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u432	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No x 1,1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u433	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment x1,1000 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1215 PRESIDENT. Amendment x1.2 is therefore incorporated. Amendment x1.1 has been withdrawn. Let us resume the examination of Amendment 2.9, which was previously rejected. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u434	Madam President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u435	Madam President, I believe that the draftsman of the amendment wants access to the request to withdraw the amendment by replacing it with an agenda that the Government would be willing to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u436	Senator Orellana, do you confirm what the government representative said? Orellana (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I have tabled an agenda on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G2.9 will not be put to the vote. 17.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, I respond to the remarks that have been made to the Presidency's pronunciation of various amendments, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular those accepted by the Commission in the referent. As far as the latter are concerned, I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 78 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments proposed to the Commission and their own facts must be submitted to the House as such. Therefore, in accordance with this rule for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate do not distinguish the own-initiative amendments of individual senators, rapporteurs or the Government from those which have been accepted in the Commission. Otherwise, in the case of draft ordinary legislation, the Rules of Procedure provide for the preparation of the text drawn up by the Commission in the referee, in respect of which the Presidency has no power of intervention. Certainly, the Commission's favourable opinion on certain amendments may be the signal for the Presidency of a broad parliamentary consensus on the texts, but certainly not the precondition for the non-application of Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the criteria for assessing the relevance to the matter dealt with by the decree. This is certainly consistent with the pre-conditions of necessity and urgency of the decree-laws, and there are precedents in the last parliamentary term in which the pro-temporaneous Presidency also declared that amendments approved by the Commissions of substance could not be proposed. In particular, as regards the measure under consideration, I would remind you that a similar emergency measure, adopted at first reading by the Senate in December, was the subject of a letter from the President of the Republic, the contents of which I summarized this morning at the time when I stated the pronunciation of impponibility. Among other things, it was found that ten articles and 90 paragraphs had even been added to the original decree-law. Among the amendments approved by the Commission, with respect to which the Presidency has been asked to revise its pronunciation, seven reproduce texts of amendments already accepted by the Senate during the examination of the previous measure, three reproduce provisions originally contained in the text of the decree-law that has lapsed: all of which the Government under its responsibility obviously did not consider urgent enough to introduce into the text of the subsequent decree, that is to say the one under consideration today. As regards the other five sub judice amendments, I repeat that, although the Decree-Law treats provisions of an indifferent financial nature aimed at guaranteeing the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures relating to infrastructure, transport and public works, as well as to allow interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters, does not mean that any amendment with sensually identifiable interventions of an emerging nature or generically referable to local authorities can be found in the text under consideration. These criteria extend, to a greater extent, to amendments with rules of a legal nature or relating to entities of a different nature. The same applies, of course, to the other amendments which have been declared inadmissible, which have not been accepted by the competent Commission. Therefore, even in view of the particular circumstances in which this urgent decree was adopted, which, as I have already said, was preceded by a letter from the President of the Republic, who invited the Presidents of the Chambers to comply, when assessing the admissibility of the amendments relating to the decrees-laws, with criteria of close relevance to the specific subject matter of the decrees and their purposes, the Presidency can only confirm the decision already taken. Finally, I would like to point out that the Presidency's decision has a strictly procedural meaning, which does not in any way intend to go into the substance of the non-binding amendments. The Presidency is well aware that some of the measures proposed could bring relief - a very great relief - to various situations of suffering in the Italian territories. I am deeply sorry that I cannot respond immediately to citizens who would need it. I sincerely share the desire of this House to support the people in difficulty and the critical situations of the territories. The fact that all the groups have complained about the impponibility of amendments makes it clear that the criterion adopted has been strict, rigorous, careful. I can assure you that I have personally examined all the amendments, often sharing their aims. I hope that this unanimity in criticizing my decision will allow, with equal unanimity, what President Azzollini has proposed, which I considered to be very welcome from a parliamentary point of view. Your proposal to group all these amendments together and to be able to include them immediately in a draft law would certainly have all the support from the Presidency for an early timetable and also, if necessary and if the conditions are met, for a deliberative examination. It would therefore be the presentation of a bill of parliamentary initiative widely shared, in which to summarize all these rules considered urgent and worthy of appreciation that could not be discussed here. I am truly sorry, but to admit one and not another would certainly point out an injustice, an iniquity in the assessment. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that I have acted in compliance with the rules and procedures, without going into the substance of the matter, although I have to read the substance and consider most of these amendments to be commendable. The question was whether the Government, which should have, in the decree-law or in the re-establishment of the decree-law, assessed the necessity and urgency of these situations and, therefore, submitted them to our examination: all the more so since they had already been approved at first reading by this Senate. Therefore, I think that all this can serve as a warning, even in view of the new Government, in the sense that we must avoid proposing these procedures with omnibus decrees-laws, which can then allow the evaluation of so many situations that must first appreciate the Government and then Parliament. I'm really sorry. I have often had to make unpopular decisions in my life. This is one of them. I am truly sorry, but I can make absolutely no particular assessment, for one measure rather than another, once I have adopted a criterion that is the strict, strict and strict one that I have been asked for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u438	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u439	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u440	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you certainly cannot adopt different criteria for different amendments. However, let us go to the source of the problem. The source of the problem are the decrees: not so much the omnibus decrees, but the decrees. In fact, even admitting what you have said correctly, namely that the decrees must be maintained by consistency of matter, even admitting that it cannot be done otherwise, that means that it is only the Government that dictates the agenda of this Parliament, gentlemen! It is only the Government, dictating what matters need to be dealt with in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If we, for example, wanted to propose citizenship income (but we could propose other ideas), we would still not have a decree to put this measure in. And until the government proposes a decree relating to this matter, we could never implement it. Not a single bill of parliamentary initiative, in fact, was approved in both rooms: one was approved in the Senate and one in the House, and that's it! The only one that was about to be approved, the one on the financing of parties, was converted into a decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's face it: this House does not legislate but converts decrees. So, if the government is to dictate the agenda, we establish that the government dictates the agenda and tells us the issues. The new President-in-Office of the Council has told us that there will be a reform per month. We know that the President of the Council does the timetable. He comes here on the first day of the month and tells us what is the timetable for the proceedings of the Senate Chamber. And so we know who to go and ask for the schedule of work. The problem, Mr President, is that we do not read here about anything that originated in this House. In particular the opposition: if they did not have that small space of some amendment within the decrees of an agenda dictated by the government, they would have no chance of proposing anything. We might as well go home, but maybe everyone finally! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u441	Parliament, in its role, can reverse this. That is why President Azzollini's proposal seemed rational and acceptable to me. If there is unanimity on these amendments, a draft law can be drawn up, which could have the greatest speed in calendarization and would have my full support.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u442	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u443	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u444	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with what Mr Azzolini said. I believe that we could also proceed with measures where there may be no unanimity, and I believe that we should learn to draw up draft laws and, above all, to question them (because there are so many to be presented, but it happens very rarely that they are called into question), even if they are not full-bodied and do not contain 40 or 50 articles. There are many common sense rules, which have been approved in the Commission, which have then been excluded from the decision you have taken, Mr President. We could discuss the application of this criterion, but this is inevitable because, at the time of saying yes and no, this can only leave someone unhappy. But I say one thing. The President of the Republic sent a letter recommending the application of the Constitutional Court ruling. The Constitutional Court is increasingly invading Parliament with a series of decisions, according to which what Parliament decides is always secondary to what are the personal convictions of these fifteen very respectable gentlemen, to whom the Constitution entrusts not the task of making laws, but a different task. Rule 70 is very clear: it is Parliament that approves the laws. In this regard, and in line with what Senator Crimi said, in the functions which Article 87 of the Constitution assigns to the President of the Republic there is no question of going into the substance of the amendments. His message certainly refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but I remember that in the last parliamentary term we even experienced the indication of specific amendments which, for very high reasons, were not welcome. I recall, however, that among the prerogatives and tasks of the President of the Republic there is the enactment of decrees of law value. So, if some of the amendments that you have declared unacceptable are not consistent with the original text, what do the various articles of this decree have to do with each other? We have everything and we certainly do not have just this decree. The only thing they have in common is that these are interventions the government wanted to do. Without going into the matter, the President of the Republic should then send the messages to invite the homogeneity of the bill to himself, that is to say to the Government, if he believes. Of course, Parliament should take its own measures, and I remember that the threat of not signing laws that are passed by Parliament can be countered, in accordance with the same article of the Constitution, remembering that if Parliament approves the bill with the same text the President of the Republic is obliged to sign. This has never happened in so many years, but it should be remembered that this is a possibility that the Constitution provides for in the face of so many things that we see happening to the detriment of Parliament and that the Constitution does not provide for at all. [[Applause from Senators Santangelo and Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u445	In the same letter, the President of the Republic warned, following judgment No 22 of 2012, that, in the face of the abnormity of the outcome of the conversion procedure, I could no longer give up - he spoke of previous letters - to make use of the right of referral, even if this could have led to the revocation of the entire decree-law, not having the option of partial referral. Therefore, a violation can cause the revocation of the entire decree-law. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has done so with the drug law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u446	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u447	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u448	Milo (GAL). Mr President, I have listened to your thoughts on the demands of this House. I don't even know if I can afford to, but I don't think that you compared to what you said just now can quietly sign or send to the Chamber of Deputies the decree empty prisons or the decree "Destination Italy". I do not understand why you started this new course this morning. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] None of the decrees-laws until today converted, first from the Senate and then from the House, had this kind of path, also because no decree adopted by the Government was sectoral: it was always omnibus decrees. I do not understand why yesterday he wanted to take 400 votes on two decree-laws, both omnibus. Even, as Mr Casson said, there was a set of rules in the empty prisons that did not fit that text. We are not talking about "Destination Italy": it was for all intents and purposes an omnibus decree. There have also been cuts on this measure in the various Commissions, so I do not understand why you wanted to start this new course this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u449	Senator, please go and review the preparatory work and the inproposities that have been declared in the previous decree-laws following the same criteria. Since the President of the Republic sent the aforementioned letter to the Chambers, the criterion has always been the same. I can assure you that, and I have personally examined all the proposed amendments. We must, of course, adopt criteria which are sometimes not shared, but which apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u450	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u451	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u452	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, I do not speak on the substance of what you have said to us, and of course we take very careful note of that. I wanted to draw your attention to an amendment that has been tabled in this House, and then to your decision on impponibility, and which concerns a very urgent and also very painful subject, in the sense that in four Italian regions, for reasons which can be explained but which I omit in short, it is no longer possible to provide the school service, because it is impossible to continue in the procurement of cleaning. It is a problem that comes from afar; the Stability Act had solved it by extending for two months the previous mechanism, in the presumption that an agreement would be found on contracts, tenders and concessions, but unfortunately this did not happen. We have therefore tabled an amendment (even almost out of time) finding cover at the MIUR, so everything is fine. It plans to extend this deadline by another 30 days, then for the month of March, in such a way that it continues the cleaning of schools and also the educational service to children. I would like to ask you, with all the civic sense and also a little democratic passion, to reconsider this impossibility, where it has already been given, and to allow the vote on this amendment, which - I repeat - is covered and responds to a truly indisputable urgency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u453	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u454	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u455	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, as was expected (it has been pointed out by several Members), we are in a situation where the combined arrangement of legislative and legal developments in the Court puts Parliament in great difficulty. It all began when the Constitutional Court established that the decree-laws could not be repeated: in fact, how had the government solved the problem for years? The Chambers did not ratify and therefore re-proposed the same decree-law for months and perhaps for years. The Court has said that it is no longer possible to do: a decree-law is converted or, if it lapses, it is no longer possible to present it on the same subject. However, this is a theory because, as we have seen with Salva Roma, when necessity and urgency are true, even if the decree saves Rome has fallen, the same is re-presented by the Government, without any particular objections being raised, given the incandescent matter and the need to intervene. But we have gone further, and I call on colleagues on formalism. For five years I have been the Minister for relations with Parliament, and when I hear the unevenness of the subjects dealt with in the omnibus decrees, I wonder if perhaps the problem would have been solved if the Government, in this case, instead of issuing a decree-law, had issued five, each with the titles indicated in the decree. If he had issued five, were we in order? Did we multiply the paperwork, the formality and the bureaucracy? Five decrees-laws, each with a title, are fine, and instead one that in a single provision deals with emergencies is not okay? Mr President, excuse me, perhaps I say this because of the sunburn caused by the recent judgment of the Court, but the decree-law converted in February 2006 was submitted in December 2005. The Government had to assess the necessity and urgency of the Constitution in force; it was in 2007 that the Court, two years later, drew up the concept of homogeneity. I would like to know how a legislator two years earlier knows what two years later the Court is trying to impose on Parliament as a legislative development. But then what? The homogeneity, in fact, becomes a trap, as you see, because the Court, with regard to the law Fini-Giovanardi, of 23 articles added in the law of conversion - compared to a theme already present in the original decree, that is the real emergency to prevent that for three types of crimes people were in jail twenty years, especially drug addicts - confirmed 21, establishing that they were pears on pears or apples on apples, so to speak, while two have cashed them, because they did not like, for exquisitely political reasons, not legal. Today, when colleagues point out to the President that there are subjects such as school, where people's and citizens' problems and emergencies could be solved, with an eligibility decision relating to something already established by the Commission, in legal formalism, because the President of the Republic sent a letter asking the President of the Senate to be more restrictive, the form is eaten up. And so, even if we can solve a country problem in five minutes, we don't do it for that reason. If we were to follow formalism, Mr President, Mr Malan would be right: the Constitution has already provided that, if the President of the Republic considers that the House or Senate has not acted correctly, he will not sign the decree and send it back to the Chambers. These, however, can re-approve it in the same text and, at that point, the President of the Republic is forced to sign it. This was done by the PD's Parent Company, other colleagues have also done so, and so I say this: be careful, because, following this bow, legislation will no longer be in the hands of Parliament, but of constitutionally important bodies, such as the Head of State, the Constitutional Court or the Government, but we will be expropriated of the power and duty to legislate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u456	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u457	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u458	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, Senator Giovanardi's speech has given me the opportunity to understand who in the last parliamentary term we were hit by incredible omnibus decrees. My dear colleague, I call them "incredible" because instead the division of decrees, each for its own matter, allows all the Commissions of Parliament to work on it: the omnibus decrees, instead, end up in the funnel of the 5th or 1st Commission, while the others often do nothing. When you are in the government, then, and you decide to make a decree with so many arguments, you must also consider that Parliament would be able to respond more quickly if instead the decrees were really separate matter by subject, in the most correct way to avoid the funnel. Having said that, Mr President, I had no doubt that your answer would have been this, and woe if it had not been: otherwise we would have introduced a principle of contradiction between the presidency of the Senate - which, on the other hand, is an indispensable body in judging the admissibility of the amendments - and the Groups and the House. However, I would like to remind you that it is necessary to re-evaluate - indeed support - Parliament's legislative activity in a strong way. From this point of view, let me give you just one example, not because it concerns me directly, but because I believe it concerns the entire Senate. On September 11 we decided the emergency procedure for three draft laws: No. 120, to my signature; No. 370, of Senator Filippi, concerning the port reform, on the text approved in the previous legislature, therefore with an emergency procedure among other things provided by our Regulation in very binding terms; and No. 119, on the reform of the legislation on parks. Well, it's been six months, and still these three bills haven't seen the landing place in this House. There is something that does not work in the consideration of the parliamentary initiative activity and in the privilege given to the conversion of decree-laws. [[Applause from Senators Bianconi and Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u459	Senator, you know very well that - as has been pointed out - for now we examine only decrees-laws, as long as there are, and next week there will be three more to examine (in a moment I will give reading of the calendar).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u460	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u461	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u462	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I take very little of your time and I only speak because I have listened carefully to your reasoning and your reflections, which are certainly correct, but I want to explain to you the discomfort that we are experiencing when we have to legislate. Firstly, it is not easy to legislate under the conditions in which we work in this House. You have probably also noticed that amendments arrive at the last minute, we cannot move from this place because we must continue to vote by electronic procedure; the amendments are often incomprehensible and there is no time to deepen them; it is easy, therefore, to approve things that then create some problems, which must be corrected. For example, in November, an amendment to the Red Cross was adopted in the Chamber, which also invested in Trentino-Alto Adige and which caused incredible trouble two months later, since it entered into force on 1 January of this year. I have used the decree that we are discussing today to resolve this problem and President Napolitano has dismissed it. Today the Red Cross in Trentino-Alto Adige carries out an equally urgent action than the one complained here, but it cannot operate because, in some way, it was put in difficulty by that amendment arrived at the last minute. It is true, then, that we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, but, Mr President, let us know how we can intervene and correct something urgent without spending a great deal of money, matters which require us to be timely, without having to wait for the regulatory process of the bill. The problem of lands and excavation rocks, which was urgent, I solved with the provision on environmental emergencies, which - to be honest - was not relevant. But my bill has yet to begin to be discussed in the Commission after a year. Therefore, Mr President, take this matter to heart with all the leaders, because it is really important. Our way of law-making must be improved, or in any case it must be possible to have an impact on the legislative system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u463	The problems you have raised will be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which will be able to deal with these and other issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u464	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, remodeled the current timetable, with regard to the expired decree-laws. The examination of the decree-law extends international missions will take place next week, starting from Tuesday 25 February. Therefore, tomorrow's sitting will not take place. In relation to the times of constitution of the new Government, next week the Assembly is convened for Monday 24 February, at 2 p.m. The discussion of the other decrees-laws provided for in the current timetable remains confirmed for next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u465	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u466	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u467	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u468	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, the remarks that have been made at the end of this disquisition in relation to the interpretations of the messages of the Head of State, the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the merit of this decree-law show us that we certainly need to review our legislative machinery as a whole. Perhaps some remarks, which you have rightly pointed out, could already be raised at the time of the issue. In fact, if we read the title of this decree-law, we discover that the unevenness is at the origin of the decree-law itself. Let us also remember that what we are now considering is the rewriting of a previous decree-law that has allowed itself to lapse, which has been somewhat reproposed. On the subject of substance, there are certainly important issues in this text. There are measures that are necessary, but we cannot fail to note that, even by revising the majority agreements, which had already been established by the Stability Act, the rules of the so-called D'Alia decree on public administration that we do not agree with have been restored. In the previous work, which has been proposed and on which we also voted this afternoon, we had tried to correct rules that concern a welfare way of proceeding within the participating societies. We have tried to bring to Parliament's attention a number of amendments, on which we also reached agreement in the Commission, with regard to'save Rome' in a literal sense. These changes were a message to be addressed to the system of local self-governments: the time of the list payment no longer exists and therefore a different way of governing local communities must be found together, in which the certainty of expenditure is given by the certainty of revenue and the certainty and determination of assets. All of this must contribute, at a time of emergency and difficulty, to addressing the future of these administrations and, at the same time, to putting local administrators in some way in the conditions of restoring a correct relationship between the responsibility for government action and the resources they have available, i.e. a trust relationship with citizens. This attempt to correct a wrong approach, which is merely a matter of giving to the local authorities by the central state, outside of any virtuous system of control and accountability, has not been found at the last part-session. We note this, but we cannot agree with the conclusion reached by today's vote, contrary to what we agreed yesterday in the Commission. So our vote will be one of abstention in relation to this measure. In this phase of passage, between a period of government that we must leave behind and the signal of discontinuity that we expect in the parliamentary passage that we will live on Monday, we need a discontinuity also from the point of view of the action of government in relation to fundamental issues: the certainty of the resources and the responsibilities between the central state and the local and regional realities and the fact that important issues such as liberalization and privatization must be placed at the center of an agenda that does not remove the public control on the services network, but that it puts the local administrators in a position to be able to deal with the reasons of the market and competition without losing the public control of the private dimensions of the management of the local public services. Because we have also been called upon by the European Union to do so on a number of occasions. All of this is not in this provision and we hope that this will be the basis of a government programme that really wants to free the suffocated energies from an excess of bureaucracy and statism in our economic-productive system. This is the contribution we would like to make, as a Civic Choice, to the next Government. We want to give this signal today; an important direct signal to the economic and productive world and also to those who look at us. I am thinking, for example, of the markets, with respect to an action of consolidation and change in our economic, social and productive action that the country certainly needs. Then I repeat the vote of abstention of Civic Choice regarding the conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u469	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u470	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u471	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, the Government has retabled an omnibus decree-law, but less omnibus than the previous and previous ones; this is also due to the controversy at the end of the year, when especially the Senate was strongly criticized for having filled the diligence of clientele and localistic suitcases. The date - I believe - of the third reading, in December, when the previous decree was tabled, and this load of amendments were perhaps the basis of the letter from the President of the Republic you mentioned earlier. I believe that the debate that followed his statements, on which I agree, indicates the need for radical institutional reforms and parliamentary regulations. In this measure Article 1 stands out, which is right - I believe - in the guinness of national primates (I do not want to expand and I do not mean world). This article amends a law voted, with confidence, three days before. In other words, we voted on the Stability Act and some of the articles of the Stability Act amended them three days later. It is true that it takes three days to see the world change, but the changes introduced were predictable because they are generally terms referring to time periods. That says a lot about how and where laws and amendments are being prepared and where amendments are being verified. These amendments are often made in battery, without critical scrutiny and under the pressure of urgency. With this decree-law we amend, in article 7, as I recalled, some paragraphs of the law of stability, but in subsequent articles we also amend laws approved three or six months ago and even a year ago. Is it a problem, then, that we can blame the perfect bicameralism on changing the laws that have just been passed? I think so. Part of it's true. Of course it will weigh the perfect bicameralism that we seek and that we will try to change. But here there is also a responsibility of the Commission; a responsibility of a large part of the political forces which, with excessive and redundant production of amendments, congested parliamentary work, making it confusing and precarious to proceed with the same parliamentary work, both in the Commission and in this House, often confusing those who have to make laws from those who have to manage, those who have to govern. For example, I appreciated the intervention - the peroration, I would say, after his intervention - by Senator Santini. I wonder, however, whether it is a task of those who make the laws - of the legislator - to look at the cleaning of the classrooms and whether or not the measures expire next month, or whether this task does not depend on the government. The government did not raise this problem: if a legislator puts it, if a senator, or a group of senators. Speaking of Commissions, I would like to bring to this House an inconvenience which I had in the work of the Budget Committee for the course of this measure: an inconvenience due to the opaque management of the amendments. Amendments that were previously, even in that case, impossible, then became feasible and then were presented one, two, three times with renewed texts and technical modifications arrived on the wool thread. The measure and the management of the amendments are not the property of a majority in government, but they were the property of a majority composed mainly of the two parties greater than the same majority. The measure provides for interventions on different subjects which require - therefore - different judgments. For example, our Group considers the solution found with regard to public administration leases to be satisfactory. We are also convinced that the measures provided for in Article 7 must be supported in relation to the damage caused by floods in Sardinia, while we express our concern about the 'pieces' which Parliament is obliged to foresee in relation to the slownesses and other serious problems arising from regional rail transport. We in Campania proceed to extend the extension with results that are visible to all. Public opinion and citizens are deeply critical of Campania's rail transport. The Commissioner ad acta, after years of activity, today requires a support structure; the creditors of the transport companies are treated worse than the normal creditors with regard to foreclosures and interest; the State must continue to pay against return plans that are also in substance extended and of which in any case you never see the deadline. One thing is indisputable: national rail transport is managed at a loss; the shelf is borne by general taxation; users pay tickets that do not pay the costs and on these trains there is a strong evasion, that is customers who do not pay the tickets because there are poor controls, controllers are often intimidated and the quality of the service worsens month after month. This is the result of the regional rail transport on which a Commission of Inquiry would really have to be done. Since the decree deals with the issue of networks and rail transport, we, with an amendment, had placed the theme of the detachment from the Railways of the State of Trenitalia. Of course, this amendment has also been considered unacceptable. But the theme arises and how. I am talking about the need to divide, as the country, Parliament and the government have done, when it came, for example, to divide the gas network from the operators or the electricity networks with Terna compared to the operators. So it was not done for Telecom, with all the problems we heard and we did not do it for Ferrovie dello Stato. Mr President, I am finally going to speak on Article 4, namely on Roma Capitale. Our attitude, as I have already said in the presentation of the amendments, and as Senator Di Biagio in general has already said for our Group, is severe but not demagogic. We were neither present nor, of course, voted in 2008 and 2010 on the measures to support the large debt accumulated by the Municipality of Rome, amounting to 22 billion euros in 2008 and today reduced by the Commissioner's management to 15 billion euros, with credits of 2 billion euros. We take note, although we did not vote in 2008 and 2010 because we were neither as people nor as a Group, of what in the past have done Right and Left Governments, but we are not in favour of voting for new interventions of national finance for Rome or for others without putting strong conditions in order to balance the budgets of public bodies and, in this case, of the Municipality of Rome. We have therefore made our choices: we have voted in favour of the more stringent amendments; we have not been satisfied and we believe that this decree is a leopard, with some positive voices, others negative. Our Group will therefore abstain on the final vote. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u472	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u473	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u474	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representative of the Government, first of all I feel obliged to thank and associate myself with the contents that you have already expressed in a precise, precise and precise manner the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, who, on behalf of the Commission itself, has taken on the responsibility for a second time of this decree, which actually had a rather particular and complex process and history. I avoid any kind of mischievous interpretation, beyond mistakes or failures that may have been made, but I want to acknowledge the intellectual honesty and commitment of the rapporteur, who has always tried to take responsibility for what has been the amending activity on the part of all of us individual senators. Perhaps we should consider how we manage the tabling of amendments and how we should filter out this kind of parliamentary activity. I say this because the intent of the decree, in my opinion, was and is noble. Certainly it is a measure that gives a response to some emergencies - but the title of the decree says it itself - and it is clear that when you give answers to emergencies are extraordinary also the tools used. And it is true that the emergencies in the country, unfortunately, are many. It is therefore also understandable that many groups and many colleagues have tried, each for their own part, to plead the cause that came from the individual territories or with regard to the individual issues that are open to those territories. I am referring not only to the problem of Rome Capital, of which the Government was clearly aware above all and rightly, but to many issues that are still open and that concern the Region of Sardinia or those raised about the emergency of the earthquake in Emilia, or in other areas of the country, or to the municipalities that have been declared or that are, in fact, in a state of default. In this respect, we must also acknowledge the commitment of colleagues who have done so in the spirit of responding to the citizens. We will hear the statements of the new President-in-Office of the Council on Monday, but it is clear that we are then confronted with the harsh reality and complex mechanisms that exist in a Parliamentary House. Here I stop, there could be long discussions on how a Parliament should proceed today. What I am saying is that certainly in the situation given, we have tried to work best in the relevant Commissions, including the Budget Commission, on whose conduct I have heard some generous judgements: being part of it, I can tell you that, given the complexity of the matter and the difficulties that sometimes existed in the relationship with the Government, at a particular stage such as the one we are living in these days, we have nevertheless tried to do our best, dedicating ourselves from this morning and the other evening, for several hours, in a precise and precise manner. Many amendments have been tabled in the spirit of solving the problems. Then there are other issues, and it is right that those who have certain responsibilities should also make difficult decisions, and that too is part of being responsible. I do not list the precise answers that have been given, but in the debate of the day it was felt, especially in the introductory report by the rapporteur, and in the interventions of the representative of the Government, particularly punctually by the Undersecretary Legnini, what answers he wanted and managed to give. Some aspects have been improved to date, even a few hours ago, thanks to amendments some of which have still been accepted. So, in my opinion, in the situation given what results is a measure that still gives answers that are expected since the end of 2013. I trust not only in our responsibility, but also in what will be in the other branch of Parliament next week, because this decree will of course expire on 28 February. With the same spirit, next week we will probably convert other decrees into law, and I believe that is the best thing we can do with a great sense of responsibility, in a complex phase of the country's life and with the current rules. In conclusion, the Autonomous Group will vote with great sense of responsibility in favour of the conversion into law of this decree, which is strongly awaited.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u475	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u476	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u477	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Misto-SEL Group takes note of the position you have just expressed on the amending proposals approved by the Committee on Budgets and declared impossible, but appreciated on the substance. It welcomes the proposal made by the President of the Commission on the procedures for the recovery of the above-mentioned rules by means of a draft law of parliamentary initiative. And it takes note of the wide availability that has been made by the presidents of the groups, even the most numerically relevant ones present in this House. Due to the delicacy of some issues dealt with by the measure, in particular the rules concerning so many workers, even precarious, the public administrative system, the local authorities and the Regions, and in particular Rome Capital, the Mixed-SEL Group will vote in favour of the measure, while maintaining in full all the heavy criticism that deserves the outgoing Government for the failure to positive initiative that should have taken on account of the legal provisions that had already been approved with confidence to that Government both by the Senate and by the Chamber of Deputies. There is also a bitterness, particularly with regard to the Sardinian parliamentarians and the Sardinian senators whom I want to represent here also on their mandate, because Article 7 itself is a very serious offence against the suffering that we have had to record for the known events in calamitous conditions. The system which is intended to alleviate the situation proposed by Article 7, the heavy situation of the companies, especially small and micro, in the area affected by recent floods, is in fact a delivery of those entrepreneurs to the credit system without any real and appropriate guarantee. And in addition, all the financial provisions laid down in the law of stability at first reading by the Senate have disappeared and have had a very heavy change, making them absolutely unusable in the House of Deputies. On this matter, particularly on Article 7, we think that the measure I was talking about earlier, namely the draft law of parliamentary initiative which should collect the provisions already approved by the Budget Commission on this occasion, can be corrected further and can be made useful to the needs of our peoples. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u478	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u479	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u480	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is regrettable that we are here today to vote once again on a repeated measure, the so-called 'Salva Roma', because real discrimination is being perpetuated, in our view, against all those virtuous Municipalities and against citizens and workers. I really do not understand how it is possible for a municipality to still have off-balance sheet debts of 115 million euros, prior to 28 April 2008: debts of six years ago. In any other municipality it would be impossible; on this municipality, on the mayor and on the city councilors the ax of the Court of Auditors would be demolished. But in Rome all this is possible, apparently. In Rome we can do what we want, in the face of the rules of law, to the face of the responsibilities of the administrators and - this is a particularly painful point - to the face of the suppliers, who are there still waiting for the payment of their credits. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Moreover, I would point out that this is not the first time that we have given Rome this type of stock and this money, which for all the other municipalities is denied instead. Unlike in other parts of Italy, history apparently teaches. Already 100 years ago, with the then mayor Nathan, this charade began. In 2010, it culminated with the creation of the bad company, that is, the management of the commissioner, in which all the debts of the Municipality of Rome would be combined - so Rome would become beautiful, clean, and its budget would not have obscure shadows - with a debt of 22 billion euros. And now, as if the EUR 22 billion were not enough, we allow to bring together other debts, among which there are also those to the State, for anticipations, which will certainly - most certainly - no longer be repaid. I would point out that these advances have been granted thanks to the money of all Italian citizens, who may not be very happy to pay out of their own pocket the errors of this administration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let us not forget that, every day, all citizens and tourists who arrive at Fiumicino airport must pay an obulum to the City of Rome, equal to one euro. Mr President, at a recent hearing in the Budget Committee, the Commissioner gave us interesting information on the management of the Rome Capital debt. We have been providing more than 300 million a year since 2010 and this - it should be remembered - will be an annual contribution from here to eternity. But the shameful thing is that the immensity of public money we give to Rome is not enough: in fact, gentlemen, the Commissioner said that another 200 million a year will be needed, from here to eternity. But how is this all possible? How does the government accept all this, creating A-series municipalities and B-series municipalities? I remember the B-series are the virtuous Municipalities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Yeah, I forgot, Mr. President, the government is resigning. How do you, colleagues, when you return home, in your cities, in your countries, to address your mayor and your fellow citizens? Your mayor is wise in managing the money of his citizens, he manages them in a virtuous way, because he knows how much the taxes that pay his citizens and tries to avoid waste and cuts expenses, because the transfers by the state are getting less and less. The other municipalities must comply with the strict rules of the Stability Pact; they cannot make investments; they cannot hire a person if, first, at least 5 others do not retire; they must limit spending in social matters, although unfortunately more and more people turn to him because they cannot reach the end of the month. The mayor of Rome can do what he wants: he may not respect all those rules that all the other mayors must respect, because otherwise, for the other municipalities and their administrators, the Court of Auditors and the judiciary arrive. Indeed, the mayor of Rome can afford to ask for further contributions from the State, which is unfortunately the money of all of us - dear colleagues - of those citizens who cannot give to the mayor of their City, of those entrepreneurs, craftsmen and traders who two days ago showed, right here in Rome, for the taxes too high and to whom all the senators in this House were right. Speaking of contributions, a few weeks ago Mr. Ignazio Marino, mayor of Rome, had thought to ask for an additional EUR 500 million - as if this decree were not enough - for the event to take place. There was, in fact, an article with which Marino wanted to ask Minister Delrio for an additional 500 million euros. But the shameful thing is that they served him for the living expenses of the capital, for the demonstrations, for the palaces of power! That's how much we don't tolerate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] While all the other mayors fail to provide the essential services, he would like to make demonstrations with the money of others, not to mention that a good administrator, before asking, should at least demonstrate with concrete actions that he wants to restore his budget, and not always ask San Pantalone. Remember, two months ago, the case of Angiola Armellini? There are 1,243 properties in Rome never reported: penthouses, super penthouses, hotels, apartments. The investigations showed that ICI and IMU were not paid, the proceeds of which would end up in the coffers of the Municipality of Rome, for several million. I wonder where the managers and employees of the City of Rome were to do cross-checks. And it seems to me that the city of Rome has employees to do this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, we do not understand why the Capitoline municipality has a huge flood of participants (over 100, as far as we are aware), among which are the sadly well-known ACEA, AMA and ATAC: three groups which alone have something like 31,338 employees, or 85% of the staff of all the other municipal participants. In total, there are about 37,000 employees, about 10,000 more than the 26,800 employees of FIAT plants in Italy. 18.31 (Follow COMAROLI). Not to mention that, to these 37,000 employees go, added the 25,000 direct employees of the municipal administration. Madam President, we do not understand why the ATAC, whose debt amounts to more than 1.6 billion, spends three times as much on public transport as it is in London. We don't understand the crazy salaries of the managers and managers of these failing companies. I only mention one, whose salary even exceeds the salary of the President of the United States. To the managing director of the group ACEA go 790.000 euros per year. The president of the group, in addition to the numerous external advices, receives 408,000 euros per year. The president of the board of trade unions, who should certify the good administration and good management of the company, takes 286,000 euros per year. The six directors of the company take a total of two million euros. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You're from the LN-Aut group. Shame on you! COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We do not understand why in so many cities separate collection has reached high percentages, while in Rome, despite all the contributions made in recent years to put it in a position to implement it (and with this measure we still give 20 million euros), unfortunately the percentages remain ridiculous. Madam President, allow me to make a final analysis of the measure. This decree was issued on 28 December 2013. The law of stability had just been passed; yet some of its provisions have already changed. This is madness, and it is above all, Madam President, the demonstration that this Government has done well to resign, given its few ideas, especially very confused. The North League will vote firmly against this decree, because it is not enough to be the most populous and largest municipality in Italy, to proudly define itself as the first Municipality of the peninsula. In order to be first, Madam President, we must be able to demonstrate this in everything, especially in the management of public resources, that in Rome, for 100 years now, they do not know where they are at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u481	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u482	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u483	D'ALI' (NCD). Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of this measure and will be involved in the presentation and rapid discussion of the draft law that has been announced in this House, on the parts approved in the Commission and declared impossible due to the extraneous nature of the matter by the President of the Senate. I am not going back on this, because enough has already been said. I shall limit myself to pointing out that the root cause of these malfunctions is the confusion at the time when the decrees are presented, and the unevenness is not the one that inserts Parliament, but the one that is presented to us when the decrees are drawn up. Surely some things have been said, but many improperly. I am not referring so much to Senator Comaroli, who does not distinguish between participating companies and listed companies, which are precisely those that are good and have rightly realized not only useful, but also important quality services rendered to Roman citizens. There is nothing to do: Roman citizens trample on 3,000 years of history and several meters of archaeological stratification. It may then happen that some subway needs a few more moments or some extra roughness to be defined. Just to try to poison the climate, I do not say that there is a minimum of envy in whom these things do not have them, but you must feed a little pride for a Capital that we must definitely support, but to which we must not allow to waste. Some things, then, that have been said are right, but should not be made of the whole grass a bundle. It is also always necessary to have proper democratic control that we have here. We cannot think that it is only Rome that needs good democratic control. We have made interventions with this and other previous decrees for many municipalities of all parts of Italy that have found themselves in situations of failure; some own or ad hoc for those municipalities whose territories are above the Arno. We do not go into these matters. Let's say that our efforts as legislators must be to intervene with rigour and severity, but also with practical sense to solve those problems that, otherwise, would always fall on the citizens, of whatever part they are, of the country. We must also intervene in order to establish precise rules: it must be understood whether many municipalities considered to be virtuous have respect for the tax burden on citizens, or are able to cover better than others, by increasing tariffs and rates. Control of this phenomenon is necessary. That is why we have asked and obtained that there should be greater control over the activities of the same recovery plan of the Municipality of Rome by the interinstitutional table which, alas, has not yet been activated. We therefore ask the Government to act as soon as possible. Having made these brief considerations and returning to everything we have said during the debate and to the quality of the speeches of my previous colleagues, I just have to thank the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, who for the second time put on her shoulders the burden of this decree, bringing it brilliantly to port. In order to remain in a climate of identification of the national qualities divided on the territory, we appreciated his spirit of Sabaudo rigour in examining our proposals. We therefore confirm the New Right Centre's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u484	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u485	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u486	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to begin my explanation of vote by apologizing. I apologize because the other day (and I am glad that you are now chairing), in the Budget Committee, I forgot to be in these Palaces representing not only myself, but also being here to represent Others (with the capital letter), and I let myself go to anger, using words that are still appropriate. There are no excuses for my behavior and I apologize. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Buemi]] I am also sorry that not all the members of the Commission are now present. Here in the Palaces, however, where for years I believed that things were spoken out of my reach, the form is worth much more than the substance. The substance in these rooms is no longer there; the substance, which for you is nothing but power, enters these rooms only by delegation, and this is well demonstrated by the decree-law under consideration, with its troubled history, begun with the withdrawal at the end of the year of its almost photocopy. This decree-law tells us of a foreign mayor, put on the ropes by the same representatives of his party here in Rome; a measure that once again grants funds not to those who need it, but to those who have a friend who counts; it is a decree-law in which several times one has tried to privatise the water. We are in the presence of an outgoing government and waiting for the incoming one, the new one: new in form, but not in substance, because it will have the same majority and will bear the same interests. I see they're all very interested in the government desks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u487	Ladies and gentlemen, allow the representative of the Government to hear the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u488	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. The shape is important but, if it does not change the substance, the effects will not change. It will start again from the beginning with the decree of urgency, with the usual excuse of the emergency that is now used for twenty years in these classrooms to approve the decrees-laws. But the real goal is now clear to all and not only to us in the classrooms and palaces, but also outside. The real goal is not to vote. The power has decided that the risk of going to the vote is too high; if the vote mattered something they would not let us do it and, in fact, they won't let us do it. Only that we are here by now: we will not hold back a millimeter and we will make the wind of change felt in the face of those who have so much vanished to join us and we will vote no, still no and still no at least worse and yes only the measures that will really give breath to the people we represent. Today, however, we will abstain, because it cannot always be the citizens who pay for the actions of politicians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u489	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u490	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u491	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, it is an unfortunate decree-law that we are about to approve today with this final vote, after the many amendments that have been examined; often important amendments, which have seen the Budget Commission work very hard, each in its own role, those in opposition and those in support of the action of this Government, with responsibility and even with some difficulty, Madam President, as you are able to testify. Only a few weeks ago we saw a story that perhaps constitutes a unicum in republican history: a government that, although having gained confidence from its majority on an emergency measure, decides to make that provision lapse, although it had not missed the opportunity to say that it too would put the country on the right path. However, the reply before us today is not only that legislation, a sort of decree-bis, which could have its justification, even if certain effects of the first decree-law had already been saved previously in the law of stability. The fact is that, if we are not careful about the times, Madam President, we are faced with a possible recurrence of decadence. In other words, this decree-law is likely to end up the same way as the original one, perhaps for a little different reasons. Did such an adverse fate deserve this decree? We also lacked the improcability added today to the serious, rigorous and precise work already carried out by the Commission and its President Azzollini in order to further complicate his laborious fate. This fate hinders an attempt at action, at the end of a government that is no longer there and in the birth of a new one, which continues to force businesses, citizens and families to deal with a crisis that is certainly not behind us and which no one seems to care about, even if the former government has supported the opposite until yesterday. Sorry to have to remember this, but only yesterday, not even 60 days later, the Court of Auditors rejected the law of stability, which had become a sort of mantra of this Government: the Government for stability, the responsibility for stability and the interest of the Italians. And the interest of the Italians - the Court of Auditors explained it yesterday - was not protected by that law of stability at all. Yesterday, in fact, the Court of Auditors was able to say that it is a combination of risky consequences: the inability to affect a growing current expenditure in the coming years; the coverage entrusted to anticipations of revenues of uncertain revenue, which involve - this is the most serious part - the transfer of public finance imbalances to the future; and finally, the ineffectiveness of measures to support growth. This is not the judgment of the oppositions, who had already allowed themselves to make it known and to say it with commitment, seriousness and responsibility, knowing that a law of stability must be approved, but that it must be a good law, and that it was not. Neither is this decree, regardless of the good work done by the good rapporteur, our Senator Zanoni, and the whole Commission. The focus of this measure is Rome, as you well know, Madam President, and the intense work on how to allow the capital to count on more than 480 million, in order to avoid default. It is the worthy conclusion of an imprudent and impudent management, which - like Commissioner Varrazzani, whom you urged, Madam President, has come to explain to us, at least for the part of your competence, that is, the one relating to the period before 2008 - is really deadly for this municipality. We hope that it may have ended there, but we fear that this is not the case and that we continue to support a clearly wrong way of administering it. However, I think that the opposition of Forza Italia to this mode is the natural outlet of the photograph of a large internal division of the Democratic Party. It is enough, in fact, to put together what happened to understand it: this is all an internal game of the Democratic Party, which we believed - as well as its new secretary - started on a road that led away from the Byzantineisms, from an old policy of complicity spread or, even more so, from behaviors that are now inconceivable in modern times, especially in that of the crisis that we live in. Perhaps, however, we are mistaken: here we are still hypocritical. Behind the flagship protection of the autonomy of the capital, in fact, hides yet another missed opportunity to start cuts and put in place effective recovery operations, which would give a positive signal not only to Europe, but to all Italians and citizens of other municipalities who do not enjoy the advantage of living in a capital where they certainly trample on an ancient ground of 3,000 years, but which is not managed at all well. I think that the Roman citizens deserve, like the other Italians, good administration and tidy accounts. That is why the PD, in our opinion, continues to caress ancient confusions, such as - for example - that for which water, being a public good, cannot be managed by market economy companies, subject to careful regulation and proper of public utility companies. The possible decline of this measure would also be the nemesis of a truthful reading of what is happening, which makes us reiterate - as in the statements that the Forza Italia Group has already expressed to the House on the vote of confidence - our opposition to this decree. Like that which fell in December, even today we believe that the measure that we are going to vote contains provisions that are the payment of political bills that expire and that, different from a measure marked by responsibility and virtuosity, is only one to which we can only express our vote against, as opposed to the interest of the country: that country that we all love, that we all want to represent at the best, which we can not always do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u492	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u493	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u494	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure and will do so essentially for two reasons. The first reason is that they have remained in the measure that we will vote on important rules, which must be approved and become law. The second reason is because it is a government measure that we support. We have a lot of reservations about the final version of the measure that we will vote on, because of the articles that have failed because of the declared inproposability. I therefore take advantage of the few minutes of this statement to say that, of course, I am sure that the President of the Senate has decided in science and conscience on the imponibility of those amendments; in the same way, I ask for credit on the same science and conscience with which I express a different opinion. I would like to make it clear here that the principles are not at stake, of course. The principles that we have heard mentioned, indicated by the President of the Republic, are totally shared. We are talking about the application of those principles, which is different; we are talking about how those principles are applied. This concerns the examination, amendment by amendment, and the reasons for its procedural or impervious nature, which is different from the principle which makes it necessary to standardize the amendments to the text being examined. It is, therefore, a different matter. We'll try to make it right. The President of the Senate recalled the humanly serious effects that the measure, as it will be voted on, will result. We'll try to make it right. Tomorrow morning, the Group of the Democratic Party will present a draft law containing all the rules that have been removed, of course starting from the norms that concern the municipalities in distress, such as that of Venice; the norms in support of the earthquake-stricken populations of Emilia Romagna; the norms on the school, already mentioned in this House; the norms that concern the very delicate and - if you allow me - persecuted economy of Sardinia and the norms that concern many support to workers who need it. This we will present tomorrow, certain that it will be honored both the indication that we have received from the President of the Budget Committee and the one that we have received from the President of the Senate; that is, certain that the deliberating seat will be assigned to this bill; certain that next week it can be approved by the Senate; certain that it can be transmitted immediately to the House and become law. It is an issue on which the Democratic Party Group, each Senator of the Democratic Party, is now committed. It is a commitment that will not cease until the rules have been approved. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u495	I would like to say that the rapporteur has presented the C1 coordination proposal, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u496	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u497	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u498	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u499	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). President, we must close! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Close! Close! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators in this House are entitled to make their presence known. [[Protests from LN-Aut and M5S groups.]] I declare closed the quorum check. The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 6.57 p.m. and resumed at 7.17 p.m.) 7:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u500	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for coordination C1. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. EXPOSED Giuseppe (NCD). Close the vote! (The request is not supported.) [[Live applause from the PD and NCD groups. Protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: With the amendment of Decree-Law No 151 of 30 December 2013, with the aim of ensuring the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures relating to infrastructure, transport and public works, as well as to enable interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters, the Presidency will be entitled to carry out any further formal coordination changes that may be necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Ironic applause from Senator Bottici.]] BOTTICS (M5S). Bravo, Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u501	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u502	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u503	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I wanted you to remain in the acts that I was wrong to vote and that my vote was, of course, positive. The reason for my mistake is the state of nervousness that caused me this afternoon's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u504	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u505	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u506	Colleagues, I would ask you to leave the House to do so in silence; that of Senator Ferrara is a very interesting speech on the teaching of music at school. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Thank you, President. It is just a month today that Master Claudio Abbado, Italian art ambassador abroad, has left us, a valuable example for his social and professional commitment and an example for all the young people who want to work, who are studying to work in the artistic landscape, in the entertainment world. Culture is a common good like water: theaters, libraries, museums and cinemas are many aqueducts. This he told us, and he also said that culture defeats discomfort. Hence its proximity to the Abreu method. (at 19.21) (Ferrara Elena followed). Here in this House, for Christmas, President Grasso organized a concert of hands and white voices that gave the example of what can be done with music. Today we also remembered the death of Gianni Borgna, a great man of culture who worked for culture, who took care of the Sanremo Festival. Tonight at the Sanremo Festival the Philharmonic of the Phoenix of Venice will pay homage to the memory of the master Abbado. I believe that we here have first the right and the duty to remember it and to do it in an effective way because we know, as he said, that beauty can save the world and save it one person at a time. As Senator Renzo Piano said for life, remembering him also as a friend, beauty is an extraordinary garden, but must be frequented since childhood. So today we can say that in the Senate we have worked to present a bill that sees the inclusion of musical, theatrical and dance education, which are intersected sectors. This is a measure that many parliamentary groups have already signed up to. With this we want to give an answer to the commitment that we shared that day. Only then can a dream come true. So Italy will be more beautiful. With the tradition, human resources and professionalism that we have and that the whole world recognizes us will probably be more beautiful even the whole world. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and the senators Giannini and Serra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u507	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u508	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u509	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I wanted to inform the House that a few days ago a worker from the logistics department of FIAT in Nola, the father of two children, took his own life. He's been on the Social Security Fund for years. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, can you leave the Chamber in silence? The sitting is not over and there are colleagues who are intervening. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I have recently learned that on Tuesday 18 February another worker from the Magneti Marelli in Naples, who has also been in the integration fund for six years, was sprinkled with gasoline and threatened to set himself on fire, exasperated by the lack of work. In this case, fortunately, he was immediately reached by his comrades who dissuaded him from making the gesture. We are now in despair; there is no day, unfortunately, that we are not witnessing tragedies. The signal of social distress is dramatic; it is at three hundred sixty degrees and affects the whole country. Too many times we have to deal with the lack of decent work and social equity. I hope - but unfortunately I see that this is not the case - that these interventions will not remain mere testimony. That's not what I'm trying to do. I hope and hope that they will help us to think seriously about what to do. I understand that it is not always easy to find a solution to this crisis, but I find it incredible that this Government's lack of will to consider concrete and feasible proposals while we continue to do nothing. A solution - I will repeat it infinity - to be implemented immediately can be the contracts of solidarity, a simple instrument if there were political will. By adopting solidarity contracts - I want to say to everyone - we guarantee serenity, dignity and a better wage, which these days does not hurt. The workers and their families would earn a lot of money. I have the presumption that restoring serenity to our citizens is fundamental and necessary for a civilized country as ours should be. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u510	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u511	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u512	BENCINI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw attention to an oral question (the 3-00729) which I have already submitted to the Ministries of Interior and Defence with regard to the State Police Corps. In view of the Expo event in Milan 2015, in order to meet the requirements of protection of order and public security, the Minister of the Interior, in the last days, declared that the turnover block in the State Police would have suffered a 55 percent derogation. In this regard, the units to be employed, in order to be effectively available by the date of the start of the event in question, should start the course of student agents by April 2014 at the latest; therefore, there are no normal technical times to start a new competition procedure (this, in fact, would end at the end of 2014 and would make the new agents operational in December 2015). This implies, as a necessary consequence, the adjustment of the final ranking and its extension, at first rate, of 674 places. These posts would include, in this way, candidates suitable for physical efficiency tests and other examinations of physical, mental and aptitude fitness, which would thus retain their position in the ranking and final vote, as well as resulting from the sum of the votes of the written test and the evaluation of titles of the competition for 964 students of the State Police. In particular, enlargement should be as follows: first rate from 1 to 1437, second rate from 1438 to 1597. This solution would guarantee the coverage of the share of winners at the second rate, as foreseen by the incorporation established for June 2014. It should be considered that recently the Arm of the Carabinieri, by executive decree, has started a new procedure of enlisting by scrolling the eligible of the 2012 ranking for 1,886 Carabinieri students; in particular, the winners have been hired but also 48 suitable not winners, that is the remaining eligible present in the ranking and, therefore, the same has been completely exhausted. Consequently, for this competition the share of the winners at a second rate was eliminated, demonstrating that the presence of the two rates in the rankings is a problem that can be overcome. In particular, the executive decree of the weapon to which we refer reads: "Rewarned the need to dispose of a certain number of Carabinieri.... president. Please conclude. BENCINI (M5S). I will be brief, because I know that my time is running out. In all cases, I would like the same to happen for the Police competition, so that it was last the ranking to acquire the necessary staff for Expo 2015. The Ministers are therefore asked if they do not intend, within the framework of their powers, to take action to ensure that all appropriate steps are taken to resolve the problem set out in the preamble. I therefore call on the relevant ministries to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It must conclude, Senator, also because this is a question, and there would be another place to ask these questions. BENCINI (M5S). I'm not the only one doing this service, though. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, we will have to discuss the use of the speeches at the end of the sitting, also because they have no response and therefore are less useful for those who do them. You, however, did your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u513	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u514	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u515	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, there are treasures in our country that have been neglected and dropped into abandonment. If a man had been inherited a treasure and let him go to ruin he would be considered by all a fool. In our country many local administrators have had no respect for the past and have given space to unscrupulous builders who, since the post-war period, have cemented and raped the landscape. It is carelessness that is the mistress of many artistic sites. Also in Pisa, city of the leaning tower, city of art, history and culture, is happening what the newspapers title as "A heritage that crumbles in silence." On February 10, I carried out a survey in the church of Sant'Antonio in Qualconia. Where once stood the industrious neighborhood of Sant'Antonio with the old cathedral and the arsenals of the Maritime Republic, now there are ugly concrete boxes, called houses. Here a church, well-municipal, still survives, completely surrounded by climbers: the church of Sant'Antonio, precisely. He saved himself from the bombings of World War II. Since then, for reasons that we cannot understand, a church of 1500 that houses inside a beautiful 17th century coffered ceiling, with a unique pictorial cycle, was transformed in time first into a gym, then into a municipal warehouse and finally due to structural collapses was abandoned. Luckily, after the war, the canvases were saved. Even the concept of "saving" has a very labile boundary, in fact going to the search of the canvases in the stores of the National Museum of St. Matthew there were bad surprises: the Museum that should collect the works is in panic after they were found at auction on the Parisian market some Flemish canvases that had been given years before in restoration. During the visit we ask to view the canvases of the ceiling of the church, but the director initially fails to understand where they are located. Finally, after a couple of days, the canvases can be found, thanks to the commitment of the director of the Museum and thanks to the activists and advisors of the 5 Star Movement of Pisa, who have constantly followed the evolution of the research. This is a country in which our administrators sometimes dangle in trying to save the salvageable, and politicians have the concept that "with culture you don't eat". You choose to erase the teaching of art history from school programs and you let a whole artistic heritage such as Qualconia pulverize. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Mr Paglini (M5S). One more sentence, please. The 5 Star Movement always prefers to reaffirm these concepts, respecting those who in the past have made us the country of history, art, culture and beauty. With culture a people evolves. Isn't that why you tend to burn it to the ground? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u516	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u517	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u518	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I am sorry that, above all, my colleague for whom I propose to speak is not present, and I am sorry that this House is almost empty. I understand that Juventus plays, as a colleague of the PD said just now; I heard distinctly: there is to run because Juventus plays. But perhaps in our country there is also to be emphasized that some fundamental freedoms are increasingly compressed and put at risk. What do I refer to? To a news that has ended today even on the front page of "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale), then of a national newspaper, news that however refers to a fact happened in Calabria and especially in Cosenza. Well, what happened? I would like it to be reported to Senator Antonio Gentile of NCD, a formation that will probably enter, from what you feel, to be part of the next group of Government; a senator who could even, for what you read, become Undersecretary for Justice. I simply read these few lines: The news doesn't like it, it disturbs political friends and then it doesn't have to be published. Do you insist? The paper doesn't go out then. It is not North Korea, it is simply Calabria, Calabria of the jam powers, right and left, politicians and editors of newspapers, all together and all appear, because you are all pals. On Monday afternoon, at the headquarters of the daily newspaper "L'Ora della Calabria" (The Hour of Calabria), there is ferment. The news has arrived in the editorial office that will make Senator Tonino Gentile tremble. Attorney Andrea, his son, is investigated for fraud, association with criminals, forgery and abuse of office, in an investigation on gold advice at the Provincial Health Company of Cosenza. The usual story - for us Calabrians now this is leitmotiv - of friends and political sharks who in Calabria fatten on the health of the people, because in this story there are so many aspects on which to reason. The article is ready, the first page is ready. Title: "Andrea Gentile, the son of the senator." Photo by Senator Dad smiling with the supermanager of the Health Company, the leading name of the judicial inquiry, but above all the man who dispensed advice and assignments. Let's stop for a moment and understand the context. Tonino Gentile is one of the most faithful of Peppe Scopelliti, by chance governor of the Region, and it seems to me recently also made the subject of a request from a prosecutor for a condemnation of no entity, five years and a few months. What do you want me to be? The Municipality of Reggio Calabria has given an example of being able to survive all these craps as well. Let me make it brief: the newspaper did not come out for direct and indirect pressure, and it did not come out simply because the printing press was able to bend to the will of these powers. I wonder: this is a country in which we have always, we know, to say exactly what we think is not pleasing to the power. And do we find these gentlemen in the government? You have to put a hand on your conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u519	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u520	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u521	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, when we began our crusade in defense of the Real Site of Carditello, in the province of Caserta, the first thought was for Tommaso Cestrone, known as the angel of Carditello, the one who for over two years has been the voluntary guardian, and who, by permission of the tribunal of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, alone has cared for and maintained the Real Site, in the total indifference and inertia of the local and national institutions. A person we told about in the documents delivered to the Senate's Cultural Heritage Committee during the work of the deal assigned right on Carditello's Palace. Documents that have contributed in a serious way, together with the real interest of Minister Bray, to the achievement of the acquisition by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage of the Bourbon complex of Carditello, subtracting it from the risk of ending up in the hands of organized crime, considering that all the auctions arranged by the tribunal of Santa Maria Capua Vetere for the sale of the Reggia and to cover the debts of the Consorzio del Basso Volturno, old owner of the property, have been regularly deserted for three years, resulting in depreciation of the auction amount. Thomas could not rejoice in this result, because on Christmas night he left us because of a heart attack. Well, with the acquisition of the Reggia it was thought, perhaps a little naively, to have done justice to the memory of Thomas, to his commitment, to his wife and his two sons, who had accepted his battle with pride and to have put an end also to the various intimidating actions against him, as when they burned the caravan where he put his work tools. So it was not and the proof is the double fire that last night hit the farm of Tommaso Cestrone. That company was and still is the means of subsistence of his family and in two hours it was prey to an attack that, if it were to prove arson, as the elements allow us to assume, we believe of an unprecedented violence and gravity, and on which it is necessary immediately to strive to shed light to protect the safety of the family members of Thomas and of the workers engaged in the company. Thomas had been unjustly left alone by the institutions and I hope that today he will not make the same mistake in leaving his family alone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u522	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u523	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u524	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, we are very concerned about the political situation we are experiencing at this juncture. We have all heard the statements of Fabrizio Barca, who had been approached to be, possibly, part of the government. From his words it is evident - but we of course already know - that from those who are going to govern Italy - therefore from Renzi - there is an exaggerated over-pochism. And behind Renzi - I hope not, but everything makes us believe and believe - there are probably strong powers, including De Benedetti. And it is not fair for a country to serve a few people and business groups. But unfortunately we also saw it in the Chamber of Deputies: while the law of stability was being passed, lobbyists were in the room next door. We want Italy to be free and in this regard I want to make an appeal regarding what happened to Pomigliano d'Arco. There are workers who are fired, reinstated, again fired and reinstated once again. They are four workers of the former FIAT Avio di Pomigliano, who had previously been incorporated within the company, with relationships of administration work, which - I remember first of all to myself - was called temporary work, introduced in Italy by Tiziano Treu (the fake left). Well, these interim work, then administered, were considered illegitimate by the court and the workers were reinstated in the workplace. However, since workers were unlawfully dismissed, they still do not receive their wages, although there is a sentence, which not only established the reinstatement, but of course also recognised the pay arrears. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should conclude, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. During this period, in Italy, there is absolutely a need for weak parties to be taken again by the hand and accompanied towards rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u525	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u526	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u527	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I am speaking only to make a proposal to the Italian Parliament, which is linked to that of the German Parliament, which asked the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to assign the gold medal to civil merit to a German citizen. And what does the Italian Parliament and the Senate have to do with it? This person, whose name was Josef Schiffer, during the last war was the commander of a Pallerone di Aulla ammunition plant. He had been ordered to undermine the plant and to blow it up, with the workers inside and with all the population around (about 4,000 people). This officer refused, did not give the order and those workers and the population saved themselves thanks to the heroic gesture of this officer, who even endangered his own life, because he was obviously sentenced to death by the SS. 100 years after its birth, which is taking place these days, the German Parliament has awarded this medal to memory. The same request, on behalf of all that community, I make to the President of the Senate so that, through the President of the Republic, Italy too may grant this recognition. Italy, in fact, has gained in human lives from this gesture because, otherwise, the population of this fraction of this municipality in Tuscany, which is Pallerone di Aulla, would not have had more descendants, since, following that gesture, no trace of that community and those workers would have remained. Therefore, in memory of this heroic gesture, I believe that, after 100 years, Josef Schiffer deserves this sign of consideration to memory by our Republic. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u528	The presidency of the Senate will certainly represent the President of the Republic with this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u529	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-196.ana.u530	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 24 February, at 2 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.44 p.m.
