ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u3	I would like to say that this afternoon Parliament was again convened in a joint sitting for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Senators will be called after that of Members of Parliament. As a result of this decision, the Conference of Leaders redefined the schedule of work approved yesterday. The follow-up to the examination of the draft law of the European delegation 2013 and European law 2013 is postponed until Tuesday 16 September, at the end of the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the lines of implementation of the government program. Without prejudice to further parliamentary convocations in joint session, tomorrow's afternoon session, which will begin at 10.30 a.m., will be confirmed, with the information on the agenda of the Minister for Economic Development on the economic impact for national companies, in relation to the commercial sanctions of the Russian Federation against the European Union. The other topics provided for in the schedule of proceedings for the next few weeks remain firm, except for the advance discussion of the internal budget documents and the Senate's statement regarding the examination of the draft law on defamation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that if Parliament's vote today does not come to an end, the next sitting will be tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. In this case, the information provided by the Minister for Economic Development will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u6	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I repeat what I said at the Conference of the Leaders: we do not agree with this change in the timetable and we officially ask that we return to the original timetable and start working immediately according to the timetable that was to be in force. This is for the reason that I reiterated at the Conference, namely that we believe it is unthinkable that the work of this House should be blocked again in order to return to the vote and most likely, for the umpteenth time, there will be no agreement. We call for greater responsibility from the various parliamentary groups, so that we can vote once only at the time when the agreement is reached, without wasting any more time on Parliament by holding a joint sitting which does not result. We don't want to be visionaries, but since today's Conference of Leaders was already in the air that we would go to tomorrow, there is a risk. At this point, we ask that you find an agreement, seen and considered that you have searched for it among the usual few known. If you can't agree with each other, just a few known ones, we ask you to meet again and tell us what names you have to vote on, and then we go to the vote by calling Parliament once in a joint sitting, without river seats like those held so far. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u9	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have taken note of the communications you have given. If I understand correctly, the President-in-Office of the Council, when he arrives in this Chamber, will present himself for information. Well, we ask the House, if it were possible without altering the day or the timetable, that the information be transformed into communications. We know the difference: on information the debate is over, while at least on communications a debate can develop and there is the possibility of Parliament giving some direction to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u10	There have been two proposals for changing the timetable. I put to the vote the first, of Senator Centinario, that previews the maintenance of the agenda previewed, and therefore the discussion at today's sitting of the delegation to the Government for the transposition of the European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union, and of the European law 2013- bis, and the not postponement to Tuesday 16. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal of Senator Divina who, while maintaining the calendar unchanged with respect to the proposal of the Leaders, would translate the information of the President of the Council into communications of the President of the Council. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u13	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I would like to address an unfortunate incident which took place before the Ministry of Economic Development, where, at 4 p.m., the extension of the essentiality regime in favour of the Ottana power plant, called Ottana Energia, was to be discussed. To this end the representative of the company, the president of Confindustria di Nuoro, all the representatives of the unions, three mayors of the territories concerned and the president of the Province of Nuoro, had all asked the parliamentarians of the territory to be present, also in view of the fact that at least two years they were dealing with this matter. It is true that, just before the beginning of the meeting, which began with about an hour and a quarter late, the two Members present, myself and Mr Roberto Capelli, were invited by the Deputy Minister present to leave us, as the head of the Minister's cabinet would have issued a circular which, with effect from 1 September 2014, would prohibit Members from attending such meetings as political bodies. I would point out that this was not a technical table, but a political table. At my request for explanations, pointing out that the mayors present and the President of the Province were political bodies, I was told that these were representatives of the institutions of the territory, thus implicitly stating that parliamentarians are not, in essence, institutions as representative of the territory. Obviously, in order not to fuel further controversy, which could have compromised the successful outcome of the meeting, we preferred to move away, even if we were aware of the absurdity of this behaviour, which is clearly detrimental to the role, the prerogatives of parliamentarians and even their dignity, given that this happened before 25 representatives of our territory. I therefore call for the authoritative intervention of our Presidency, to which I will address a letter to signal the incident again, so that it will stigmatize it and intervene with the Government in order to prevent it from happening again, also to protect the institution it represents. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u14	I believe, Senator Cucca, that this is also worthy of an act of inspection union, because such a circular I would like to know who wrote it and especially who signed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-308.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 11 September, in two public sessions, the first at 10.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.45 p.m.
