ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 925, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Ferranti and others, Costa, 110, 111, 113 and 666.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last we are debating a text which is the result of a long and thorough work in the Justice Commission. It is the result not only of a political confrontation, but also of the debate between lawyers, university teachers, lawyers, magistrates and professionals in order to arrive at a balanced measure that responds to the problems that the Italian judicial and prison system have been suffering for a long time: from the excessive duration of the proceedings to the enormous load of pending trials, from the inability to guarantee the certainty of the penalty to the overcrowding of the prisons. But, in addition to the comparison with the aforementioned figures of professionals, the comparison, indeed listening, has been especially towards the social fabric of the country; a country, ours, great and civil, but that in this area has not been able to shine in modernity, efficiency and far-sightedness, neglecting human rights; a responsibility that has cost us even the humiliating condemnation of the European Court of Human Rights for the conditions of life in our prisons, defined without means inhuman and degrading terms. Therefore, the draft law on which we are debating is undoubtedly a step forward for the legal civilization, in general, for Italy and, specifically, for the modernization of a prison system that has been drifting for too long, often - let us admit it consciously - also due to the lack of interest on the part of the political class. The measure under discussion is complex due to the fact that it absorbs other legislative measures within it, and this allows me to focus particularly on the fundamental points of the text; this text basically incorporates the one already adopted in the last parliamentary term by the House Assembly, which had not concluded the parliamentary procedure for the early interruption. Like any legislation, it is necessary to identify the reasons and the purpose of the law and, since we have a duty to give clear answers and in a clear language to the Italians, I think it is appropriate to seek answers to the right questions. Let us ask ourselves, therefore, what problems this measure intends to address; if it affects the interests of the victims of crime and the social security of citizens, which were raised during this debate. I believe that we are dealing with a legislative intervention of fundamental importance for the criminal system, in full coherence with Article 27 of the Constitution, which reads in the third paragraph: Penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. With this measure, I believe that both purposes of the constitutional dictation are fulfilled. This is certainly part of the criminal reform, which will have to be completed by means of other draft laws, already under consideration by the Justice Commission. As we go into detail, we can say that the aim of the measure is to cope, on the one hand, with a critical overcrowding of prisons and, on the other, with deflation, with the clogging of the enormous judicial burden of the courts. As far as the drama of the first problem is concerned, it is enough to report some data: in our prisons there are over 65,000 prisoners, of whom 25,000 are in a pre-trial detention situation. This provision constitutes, meanwhile, a first chapter concerning those condemned definitively, for those who enter the prison circuit of our country. To answer the questions about the certainty of the sentence, the interests of the victims and social security, we must also have some points of reference in addressing the text. These key points are: the repressive aspect that the penalty must have; the preventive social aspect of the sentence; the aspect of the protection of the person offended by the crime and the aspect of the recovery of the person entering the prison system. Let us not forget, however, that the sentence must first re-educate the condemned: an action that is currently almost impossible in our prisons. The delegation in the measure clearly states the principle of home detention for criminal offences punished with a sentence of up to three years. Moreover, the judge can choose and measure the sentence according to certain principles provided for in Article 133 of the Criminal Code, being able to determine whether a person sentenced for a crime, sanctioned with an edittal penalty between three and five years, must go to prison or to house arrest. On this point, the text is very precise and precise: there were indeterminate and too general aspects of delegation which have been deleted. The rules, on the other hand, state that, on the part of the Government, the imprisonment and arrest at the house of the sentenced person or other public or private place of care, assistance or reception must be included among the main penalties. This is a fundamental aspect, as it is no longer the judge of execution who sets house arrests, but the judge of cognition. The judge therefore becomes the pivot of the action in assessing personality, context and opportunities in the context of a fair proportion of the contextualized criminal penalty, linked to the seriousness of the behavior and possible social danger. It is therefore necessary to clear the field from any possible misunderstanding. It is not at all a masked indult and less than an amnesty disguised: the indult extinguishes the sentence or commutes it into a minor; the amnesty extinguishes the crime. With this provision the penalty is not extinguished and the crime is less extinct. In fact, the penalty for arrest and imprisonment is not cancelled, but is granted under house arrest. This measure, in its entirety, takes into account the need to implement the reforms and commitments that Italy has undertaken with Europe and, therefore, to consolidate the idea of prison as an extreme ratio. Our Constitution does not provide for punishment as revenge: those who have erred, those who have violated the law must be able to atone for having the hope of having a new chance of being recovered and of being able to return to a family, to society. This is the ratio of cultural change that binds the different elements of this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, another issue of fundamental importance to the measure is the testing, which is currently only envisaged in the juvenile process. Extended to adults, this institute will allow the suspension of the trial for crimes of medium and small entities, in the face of a period of free work and social utility aimed at repairing society and the victim of the crime and aimed at the re-education of the same condemned. The Institute also offers defendants for minor offences an alternative route of reintegration and, together with the suspension of the trial for irretrievable defendants, plays a destructive role in criminal trials. In fact, in the event of a successful outcome of the trial, the offence is extinguished by a judgment handed down by the judge. Therefore, it is a question of assessing whether, under certain circumstances, an anticipation of protection cannot be put in place which avoids weighing down and clogging the activities of the courts, also, in a completely new way, dealing with the relationship between the justice system and the person, in this case investigated, assessing whether he is faced with a person who has made a one-off mistake or with a habitual criminal, and therefore rightly prosecutable, who will have to serve his sentence differently. This is, in short, the spirit of testing: a public service activity, a voluntary activity, a precise control by the administration. And for this virtuous dynamic to trigger will also need less bureaucracy and appropriate controls aimed at assessing the root of the problem: if a person, that is, can be considered recovered avoiding that he enters the circuit, sometimes perverse and massive of justice, where there is the risk of leveling all the condemned, from those for minor crimes to the very serious ones. Therefore, the institute of testing is far from a bland and superficial solution to the problem, i.e. for those who commit crime, it is not a way to "get away with it." On the other hand, it represents a serious and fair alternative for the person who, in his or her public service activity, can prove that he or she has been wrong or accused of having wronged, avoiding entering into the mincer of justice from which, not always, it is easy to go out and properly reintegrate into the social fabric. Important is also the part of the measure relating to the delegation on the depenalization of minor offences, sanctioned with financial penalties or with the alternative penalty, which are transformed into administrative offences. With regard to the specific aspect of the delegation relating to immigration crime, the New Centro-Rextra Group wishes to see a new amendment proposal from the Government and the rapporteur that improves and perfects the current text by avoiding creating a regulatory vacuum. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say with conviction that the measure under discussion is a valid modern and democratic response to the problems of justice in our country. It contains provisions that reconcile the objectives of a modern criminal system and the re-education and humanization of the sentence. The measure is therefore far-sighted and tends to overcome a central and panpenalistic vision, which some would still like to maintain, but which in reality has often proved to be a failure and cause for further problems on the part of the State and society. I conclude by quoting our Caesar Beccaria, who wrote in 1766 that there is a point where the deterrent force of punishment ends up becoming a push to commit more serious crime than those who wanted to avoid it. Such and other risks the measure intends to avoid, reaffirming strongly the expression of Article 27 of the Constitution of the Republic. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u11	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, since 1948 40 inmates have been approved by the Italian Parliament in our country and, although the problem of prison overcrowding is not solved, Letta and Mrs Cancellieri try again. Wrong is human, but persevering is surely diabolical. It is clear to everyone that you simply want to fill the country with criminals and not implement a serious prison policy. This is clearly a shameful measure; it will free more than 3,000 criminals in just a few months and does not mention the safety of the 38 ghost prisons in Italy. They have allocated 100 million euros for the purchase of 2,000 electronic bracelets, which would have cost less if bought by Bulgari; of these, most have remained unused or have been used few tens. However, it has not occurred to anyone that in order to return to the standards it would be enough to serve the sentence in their own countries of origin to the 23,000 non-EU countries that crowd our prisons. On this point I want to make a reflection. Just yesterday a meeting was held among the parliamentary delegates of the Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which I too participated, in the presence of Mrs Sabine Schnarrenberger, former Minister of Justice of the German Government, candidate for the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe. I have addressed you and, having explained to you that, in addition to the problems of immigration, we are debating in Parliament at the moment the problem of prisons, which are overcrowded, with 23,000 illegal non-EU prisoners, I have asked you what you think we should do. The candidate's response to the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe was very simple: these people must serve their time at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I repeat, they have to serve their time at home. It is time for Europe to move. The dear Chancellors and Letta, then, instead of modifying the Bossi-Fini or the Unique Text on the discipline of drugs, modify the Gozzini law: it is thanks to it that camorristi and serial killer escape. The government knows and does not move, so it is conniving with this situation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Minister Cancellieri focuses on the problems of justice rather than the problems of prisoners. We are discussing the fourth measure in nine months - two decrees and two bills - in the area of prisons, in particular on the problem of prison overcrowding. It is proof that on the part of the current Government, and especially on the part of Minister Chancellors, there has been only and exclusively attention to prisoners and prisons, when we know very well that other are the issues of the country's judicial system. The main and characteristic passage, in relation to which the League will certainly vote against this provision, concerns the amendment of article 275, paragraph 3, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We believe that for some of the crimes of grave social alarm, the instant obligation or obligation of pre-emptive imprisonment is due and necessary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am talking about crimes such as sexual violence, group sexual violence, voluntary murder, for which the prediction must be maintained or at least the absolute presumption of preventive imprisonment. We want to confirm the attention that only the League continues to maintain towards the security of Italian citizens. The current one, however, is the Government that defends and protects criminals; a Government that obviously will not have, and does not have, the consent of the League and - we are realizing - also of most Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, I would also like to point out that our country has also been referred to by the European Commission and the Head of State himself, who has repeatedly expressed its unease and concern about the state in which our prison institutions are in prison. What do we do? What does this government do? Try to solve the problem of prisons by emptying them, crying: "Free all!" This is an answer that worries us, but above all concerns the citizens. In a nutshell, we'll find ourselves getting these galant men out of prison thanks to this indult masked and then, after about fifteen days - as has already happened - having to ensure these characters again to our prison patriots. That's how it's gonna end. That's what's gonna happen. You've tried it before: that's what happened. We wonder what attitude will those who are parliamentarians to exercise the role of control, to guarantee the security of the country, that is, the Forces of the Order (Carabinieri, Police), who will see these "galantuomani" come out and will have to chase them again, like the "Bassotti". I wonder how a servant of the State can feel when the policy's response is brief, almost whimsical and without any foundation. But have you, gentlemen of the government, ever spoken to the men of law enforcement? They are despondent, confused, demotivated: they risk their lives every day and are also mocked. You, however, do not know this, keep locked up in your ivory tower, away from people's problems. I would also like, if you will allow me, Mr President, to reflect on Article 4. In our country we have a heritage of prison volumes, the buildings within our cities, where the prison structures are located, and I would like for the umpteenth time to highlight a problem, as already done on other occasions, for example talking about the so-called empty prisons. In Milan, a proposal was made by the then mayor, Mr Albertini, and then Minister Castelli (that Barbarian, Legist and racist Minister) [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which took into consideration the volume of San Vittore and redesigned the architectural and urban context of the city, including involving one of the greatest architects worldwide, Norman Foster, who accepted with great enthusiasm. That project proposed the same volume vertically, creating an element of recognizability within the city. Everything worked: from the urban point of view, from the planning of the territory, from the architectural point of view, but above all from the economic point of view. However, Mr President, as is all too often the case in our country, one morning the usual provider of public works stood up saying: hands off San Vittore. This happened: an official of the State went sideways when legitimately a mayor and a minister tried to make a grand operation in Milan, as was done at the time for the Fair. We have asked you several times: these are the things that must be done, on this you must concentrate if you want to give a concrete answer to the problem of prisons. We create the conditions for that, when the political and administrative process finally succeeds in generating serious and decisive things, do not put the usual state bureaucrat and, as in the case of Milan, a very large inability. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, Mr. Undersecretary, the thing that worries us most and which disconcerts us the more is that the more time passes and the more people are afraid in our country. It is very worrying, and I want to give you a witness in this regard. Last Saturday I was invited to Tirano (Tirano, not Tirana), in the province of Sondrio, at the borders of the Empire, to a spontaneous demonstration of citizens who wanted to parade without any political cliché in a compound way to signal their concern for the wave of theft that also touched the distant Valtellina, a phenomenon that for several months has touched families that until now had not had this kind of problems. I can assure you that I was impressed by the level of concern that pervades the people, and believe me, Mr. Undersecretary, I am one who beats the territory. They're traumatized, they're worried, they feel left alone. You leave them alone, we charge you: you leave our citizens alone! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Among other things, someone insists on defining these territories as happy islands, like my province; they are territories that had never dealt with the problem of the safety of people, except for isolated cases. No, Mr President, they must not be called happy islands: it is the land that our fathers have given us and that we want to deliver to our children, possibly improving their quality of life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's exactly the opposite of what you want to do. But don't worry, people are not stupid, they won't allow you to approve your life to a standard of living that they don't understand and above all they don't want. That's what people will tell you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today, guaranteeing a dignified life for all regular Italian and foreign citizens is, and must be, the political mission of all political forces. Yours is something else. So I ask myself: is it wrong to try to guarantee all citizens living in our country a decent life for them and their children? Absolutely not. Whoever of us has been a local administrator has contributed to this process and has done so for all citizens, regardless of their nationality, religion and political beliefs. In thousands of municipalities in our country live together serenely women and men of race and culture, distinguished in origin, but identical in everyday life. This is what you don't know. You, with your political plan, are compromising all this: you are irresponsible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would like to make a political thought. I am not surprised that the left is once again working to free criminals and above all to promote illegal immigration: it is in the DNA of the left. It is not new that the left fights for the abolition of the crime of illegality. We are a little puzzled by the attitude of colleagues from Forza Italia, who are trying to figure out where they are. There's a little confusion in the New Right Center too. We will see how things develop, but they too - like everyone else - will respond to the citizens. But there is a novelty in the political scenario of our country, and we note it: the 5 Star Movement has finally thrown the mask. In fact, it will be thanks to you if the crime of clandestineness is abolished. Thank you, on behalf of the Italian citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At last you have made it clear to the Italians what you want: colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, you are a more radical left rib, who wants more underground and less security, thinking too much about those who are in prison, the criminals, and little about honest citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Be sure that it is to the Italians that you will have to account, as well as to your conscience. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In conclusion, Mr President, the League has always expressed its views in a democratic way. We are Gandhians, we have never created any problems for anyone, even through our newspaper: "La Padania" is a symbol of our movement, but someone wants to eliminate it. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group show the front page of the daily newspaper "La Padania."]] Don't touch the Padania, or we guarantee you...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u13	Colleagues, you don't have to. I think the debate is long and intense. Parliamentary assistants, please intervene. Senator Bitonci, Senator Divine... Don't touch the Padania, or let's unleash hell! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, but there's no need to flaunt the newspaper. Anyone who wants to buy it on the newsstand. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Don't touch the Padania, or let's unleash hell! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I also ask the Senators Secretary to cooperate. Senator Bitonci, you're a group leader. You work together to keep going. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] . Parliamentary assistants shall remove the newspapers). Senator Crosio, have you finished your speech? (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display a sign with the inscription "Diu le mani da "la Padania" (The Padania).") We have read the newspaper, now also the signs; there is no need. Please pick up the signs. (Parliamentary assistants withdraw the signs.) He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). If you want, let's wait a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now the signs are gone: you can talk. [[Senator Olivero's comments. Exchange of jokes between the Senators of the LN-Aut Group and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to... [[Live comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u15	Colleagues, you have already given place to your performance, now take your seats and sit down. (Divine Senator shows a sign.) Divine Senator, I marvel at you. Please, Senator Airola, continue as the cartels are seized. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to make up for the time I have available. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry, Senator, time, calculated as in basketball, is the actual one, don't worry. AIROLA (M5S). I would like to introduce a more relaxing subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u16	[[Loud buzz.]] Do you know that we consider the... I'm sorry, but I'm going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u17	Yes, Senator Airola, but if you speak, it will help normalize the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u18	AIROLA (M5S). But you can't, with that noise. You know that we consider depenalization an effective way of solving the many problems that have plagued the Italian prison system and justice for decades. Today there would be an opportunity to solve so many problems with one amendment, which is certainly much more effective and useful than inappropriate legislative initiatives taken in the past, such as the indult and amnesty that we will, among other things, have to face again in this House. The 5 Star Movement has tabled an amendment to the Commission, which is now before the House, in order to decriminalize light drugs. As you know, more than a third of inmates are in prison for drugs, a lot of small crimes. With one decriminalization, in one shot we solve the crowding of prisons, lighten justice, remove money from the underworld and achieve many other useful goals. The time has come - we said - to decriminalize. But not only do we say this: a report by the UN, by the Global Commission on Drug Policy, says: World War on Drugs has failed with devastating consequences for individuals and communities around the world. The appeal comes from personalities such as former UN President Kofi Annan or former EU Commissioner Javier Solana, former US Secretary of State George Schultz and several former presidents such as Jimmy Carter or cultural figures such as Nobel Prize winner Mario Vargas Llosa. In the United States, everyone knows the recent anti-prohibitionist choice of the State of Colorado, which is added to the State of Washington and California. Other states are also working on it. You all know of the legalization that took place in Uruguay and even in Western Australia. The same has been done by other European countries such as Portugal, Spain and the Netherlands. What about Italy? In Italy we are a little more schizophrenic. While in the Commission the majority rejected these same amendments that we proposed (I will then explain why they voted against) the Senate and the House deposited drafts of law and proposals for decriminalization. And not only in Rome, also in various Councils and municipal and regional councils were made choices in this sense: the last just the day before yesterday in Turin, the city in which I live, where a SEL-PD motion was voted that asks the Piedmont Region to follow the example of Tuscany, Liguria and Veneto (among other things with leghistic traction, like Piedmont) that, in addition to having authorized cannabinoid drugs for pain therapy, has unanimously passed a law to experiment the free distribution in hospitals and pharmacies of cannabis preparations, but also the direct production of marijuana. And he even asks - think a little - for the abolition of the Fini-Giovanardi law. I remember that in Veneto the center-right expressed itself favorably, was very satisfied for the approval of the norm (the League and the UDC voted it) in order to make finally available the cannabis for therapeutic use giving relief to thousands of patients (palliative and anthalgic cures, cancer, amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple, muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer and Parkinson, glaucoma, asthma, in short many pathologies). So, don't you think it's time to resolve these contradictions? Solve them transversally because there are seeds of a new awareness of this plant, which has been used for 8,000 years. Indults and empty prisons are proposed to get professional criminals out of business and are you not in favour of solutions shared with your own party comrades? I know you're favorable underneath. There are many representatives of center-right and center-left who are favorable. I remember a few days ago the statements by Galan, the Legist Councillor Fava, the Senator of PD Manconi, who just filed a bill on this matter, by Senator Lo Giudice, who withdrew an amendment similar to ours saying that they would be committed to carrying out a draft law in the deliberating committee. It is true that we could have done so here with a simple amendment, By voting on it. I say that we could make a decisive gesture towards the health of citizens: emptying prisons from people who have very little to do with crime. In this way we lighten the work of the courts, favor the economy and agriculture and - finally - we cut off the billionaire business of criminal organizations. Therefore, we could have today, with one vote - I repeat - cut off the billionaire business of criminal organizations and favored the economy, agriculture, health and health. I hope this happens soon, because it has come now, really, to stop it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u20	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a legislator who is attentive to constitutional values has two rules: the first is that he can never give priority to security requirements over individual rights; the second is that he cannot even give preference to individual rights over security requirements. I had the pleasure and honor of working with two ministers in the Berlusconi government (the Alfano and Maroni ministers), who thank God were inspired by these principles. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You worked with me too! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Even with Senator Palma. Why did I say they were inspired by these principles? In the debate on this measure I have heard a number of criticisms and assessments that do not correspond to the reality. A first question is that it is not a measure that is empty of prisons, but a statement of principles. In particular, it was intended to introduce a concept. Today we have a series of alternative measures to prison that have only clemential value and benefit, because they do not bring any refreshment to society. On the other hand, it has been introduced both to the extent of home detention and to that of testing (in fact, with an amendment I ask that it be a condition of admission to testing), the work of public utility, that is the need for a refreshment to society for the crime committed. At the same time, I've heard that they're criminals. Take care: none of the rules of this bill apply to criminals and habitual infringers, professional criminals and criminals by trend. These are only crimes with a sentence of up to three years' imprisonment or, at the latest, five years' imprisonment. As far as testing is concerned, I would ask for it to be applied for up to five years, because all the measures taken so far relate to the five years. Where has this provision been altered in its physionomies? When it comes to introducing rules on drug addiction and drugs. I take note of the statement by Senator Lo Giudice, who announced the withdrawal of the amendments on this, because, correctly (I am pleased) these issues must be assessed in a set of rules concerning drug addiction, drug dealing and the quality of drug addicts, in order to evaluate together the effects on the person and on those who are the safety needs. The second issue concerns the crime of illegality. We must be clear and precise. In this House today I can say that I am glad that I was finally right, since I have heard more of the things that the Constitutional Court itself has denied in accordance with what I had said in this House from the government stand. It is not true that the crime of clandestineness concerns a subjective condition - said the Constitutional Court - but it concerns a facery, it concerns an contra legem behavior, a behavior that begins with the entry, with the permanence in the territory of the State. The Court explicitly states "The orderly management of migratory flows is (...) an "instrumental" legal asset, through which the legislator carries out an advanced protection of the complex "final" public goods of constitutional importance (...)" The Court further states: The legal control of immigration - which the State (...) undoubtedly belongs to (...), as a garrison of constitutional values and for the fulfilment of international obligations - implies, (...) necessarily, the configuration as an unlawful fact of the violation of the rules in which that control expresses itself. It is then clear that the one introduced in 2009 was a rule that was inspired by a single principle: that of guaranteeing compliance with the rules that exist in our country and, at the same time, of guaranteeing, through the fast procedure of a criminal procedure, even if imposing the sanction of the fine alone, the expulsion of the person who possibly violates our laws. What does the Constitutional Court say? Once the illegality of such behavior is affirmed, the legislator may choose between criminal sanction and administrative penalty to which the expulsion of the subject is linked. It is not understood, then, in a measure that takes into account the transformation of certain offences into administrative offences, how a criminal offence that provides for the sole penalty of the fine can be repealed. At the very least, I would have understood the proposal to sit around a table to assess whether an administrative offence could be constructed in such a way as to guarantee the same possibilities of expulsion linked to the crime of illegality. I hope that the rapporteur, who will have to make substitute amendments (having now expired the deadline for tabling amendments), will be able to table an amendment which will allow us to meet around a table. Everyone is now discussing a revision of the Bossi-Fini law. In this way we would have the opportunity to discuss them again, as is the case with other issues such as drugs, in an overall context such as the revision of legislation. In a context of this kind, it is bound by the political attitude, the will to assert a position, and that makes no sense. If, hypothetically, we are discussing technical problems, guaranteeing rights and guaranteeing security, we cannot divide ourselves on the basis of political positions behind us. It can't be like that. Beware that we are living in quite a crazy period: just a year ago - as President Gasparri will remember - a constitutional reform was voted in this House which provided for the reduction of parliamentarians and the transformation of the Senate into a different Chamber, and in which there was the possibility, by eliminating bicameralism, of correcting certain norms, for what happened to us with feminicide. Well, today we hear that the first in the class gets up and says: We delete a Chamber. I would not like, with the same logic, to make such a speech today: because we must repeal the crime of illegality for a political reason, in the end we will not have solved the fundamental problem that is affirmed by the Constitutional Court and it is an essential task of the State, that is to guarantee our territory, ensuring compliance with the rules. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u21	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the poor country in which rights are measured by a pound, depending on the number of people who are affected. And yet, that's what happens every day. And when large minorities, even hundreds of thousands of people, find it hard to get the attention of the public, let alone how hard it is to put in the spotlight those 64,000 human beings living in our prisons. We are talking about 64,000 people, one out of 1,000 in our country, who live in prisons so crowded that they could hardly accommodate only those 42,000 who represent the maximum number they should contain: 64,000 people we remove as if the prisons were human landfills, used to contain waste, that we forget exactly how we forget all the other waste, once these have arrived in landfill. Our prisons are unworthy of a civilized country: how many times have we heard this call from President Napolitano? Criminal justice is a real emergency in our country, but for reasons other than those whose exposure occupies most of the time in TV talk shows. This is an emergency, because here we have lost the deep sense of the function of the criminal trial and the penalty. A state that exercises its power over citizens by depriving them of personal freedom retains its democratic status only if it manages to hold together, in balance, various needs. The first is to condemn the perpetrator to a penalty to pay him for the fact he committed and to prevent him from delinquency again. The second is to indicate to society the disvalue underlying a given behavior and conduct and to ensure that the same community feels protected, since those who have committed a crime have been brought to justice. The third is that which constitutes the essence of a democratic state, even when it inflicts the loss of freedom, that is, the need that the penalty is not an end in itself and does not result in a pure affliction, but constitutes and becomes an opportunity to rehabilitate and re-educate those who have committed a crime, in order to ensure its reintegration into the social fabric. As usual, there are no better words than those of our Constitutional Charter, and I refer to the third paragraph of Article 27: Penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. Extremely high words, but unimplemented. The delegation law we are debating today does not solve all the problems, but forces us, as legislators, to an inescapable reflection, to ask ourselves whether the penalty today should consist exclusively in detention in prison or not and whether the only way to sanction the anti-juridicism of a fact is to lock the deed in prison and possibly throw away the key. The answer that this delegation law gives us is that no, it must not necessarily be so, but that, indeed, through home detention and testing, we can, in a number that is not irrelevant, and therefore with those many called structural solutions, keep together the three needs that we were talking about earlier: pay, security and prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Someone describes this law as some sort of masked indult, an attempt to release criminals to the detriment of the country's security. No serious crime is involved, no benefit has been provided in this law delegation for Mafia crimes, terrorist offences and particular social alarm. I should like to remind you that someone has had for years the leadership of security in Italy with a Minister of the Interior and now you tear your clothes to repair the consequences of a harmful and demagogic policy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Candiani]] In no case in this law delegates the State abdicate to its power. This measure does not prevent the judge's assessment of the guilty and the responsibility of the guilty, but affects the methods of the sentence and the rehabilitation of the sentenced person. Those who serve the entire sentence in prison have relapse rates of more than 70 percent, compared with 20 percent of those who have access to alternative measures: these numbers alone justify and make this measure worthy of approval. Today, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) someone remembered the impressive number of criminal cases in our system: 35,000! Hence the need to arrive at a consistent decriminalization, perhaps even too shy that is contained today in this law delegation. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Because the criminal penalty, due to its nature of extreme ratio, must operate only if there are no other appropriate instruments of protection. It is not justifiable if it is irreplaceable with an administrative penalty of equal and even greater effectiveness. An important work has been done in the Justice Commission to carefully select the cases to be decriminalised, excluding matters such as environment, territory, health and safety at work, goods which are directly reflected in the lives of citizens and which therefore deserve to be protected by the criminal system. It is true: among the crimes to be decriminalised the Commission has also included Article 10- bis of the Single Text on immigration, namely the repeal of the crime of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the Italian State. Why? Because it is a useless, ineffective rule that has nothing to do with prison crowding, because those who commit it are punished with the fine from 5,000 to 10,000 euros, which is never collected! It is a rule that is a source of expenditure for the State, which is forced to commit significant resources to the celebration of unnecessary trials. In short, it is a useless harp on the altar of propaganda that does not fight the slave trade at all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a good law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a law of civilization, it is a law worthy of a legislator who is not afraid and knows how to take into account all the requirements that are at stake, when talking about criminal law, punishment and its effectiveness. But it will be a good law (and that is why it is necessary a delegation to the Government) if the vision that embodies will be organic, clear and will not be restrained by laces and laces, if the civilization that proves will not be placed in nothing with cuts or interventions dictated by emergency, feeling or emotion. Investment in our legal civilization must not leave the pace to the desire for revenge and the demand for satisfaction, which is legitimate in the parties offended by a crime, but intolerable when it is taken over by the State. The severity and effectiveness of the sentence are not negotiable goods, and neither are they with this law. But the civilization of our country, the solidity of our democratic values, well, not even those are negotiable: let's remember it at the time of the vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u23	Students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo statale are attending the Senate's work, including Francesco Ferrucci in Larciano, in the province of Pistoia, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u24	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson, who I know is prevented by a strong hoarseness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u25	Mr President, for obvious reasons of absence of voice, I am unable to respond as rapporteur. [[Brusio. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u26	Colleagues, before giving the floor to Senator Palma, please show respect for a colleague who, for obvious reasons of unwillingness, is unable to carry out the reply and to follow the delicate measure. I call Mr Palma, who has asked for the floor, perhaps because of the obvious malaise of Senator Casson and in his capacity as President of the 2nd Commission. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, will you allow me... [[Brusio]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, there is a procedural aspect to be clarified. Therefore, be patient and respectful if a colleague here in this House is unable to perform his function. Let's hear President Palma say what he says.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u27	Mr President, it will allow me to take a few minutes of the House's attention, on account of the request to postpone the debate, which I shall make for the current condition of Senator Casson, but also, in the event of acceptance, to allow everyone a moment of reflection on what was the main object, from my point of view, of the general debate. In the general discussion, many of the speeches focused on immigration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u28	Excuse me, President Palma, we have seen that Senator Casson is in a clear situation of unwillingness. The Presidency was therefore considering the possibility of postponing the debate, which is irrelevant to the substance of the measure. So, there is this preliminary aspect. You wanted to intervene on this? I would like to draw the House's attention to this very aspect of unwillingness, which does not take account of the substance of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u29	Mr President, I know perfectly well what the text says. I know perfectly well what will be touched on in the immigration sector and what will not be touched. As, in listening to the various speeches in general discussion, I found some differences from the regulatory framework, since there is a possibility of postponement and therefore a possibility of reflection in order to find a possible agreement I wanted, in terms of absolute neutrality, as President of the 2nd Commission, to report the state of the art. If you believe, Mr President, that this is not useful, I can quietly remain silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u30	If you have a proposal, I would ask you to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u31	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'd like to make it clear. The first concept that must be clear is that in the legislation concerning clandestine entry, the first clandestine entry, the permanence in the national territory and the subsequent entry after an expulsion order, is currently expected [[. (Brusio.]] Mr President, as this is a matter for the majority, on behalf of the Committee on Justice, and awaiting the conditions of Senator Casson, I call for a postponement of the debate on the measure. As the second item on the agenda can be dealt with very quickly, given the small number of senators who have asked to speak in general debate and the small number of amendments, I would ask that we move on to the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u32	Leaving aside the merits of the measure, we have found that Senator Casson, who follows and participates in the Senate's work with diligence and commitment, is not in a position to respond and give opinions. This is a complex measure, which requires careful management. Your proposal, Senator Palma, basically takes note of this fact and coincides with the position of the Presidency. I repeat that it is not a problem that sticks to the substance of the measure, but to its management through the full availability of the rapporteur in this House. Therefore, the Presidency considers it reasonable to take note of this, and what you have said, I repeat, essentially coincides with this decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u35	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I rise to agree with you on the matter. The situation of the rapporteur, Mr Casson, whose health conditions are absolutely clear, leads us to ask, appreciated the conditions, to postpone the follow-up to the treatment of this measure for the time strictly necessary to restore the health conditions of the rapporteur. There are no substantive questions for the Democratic Party that lead us to ask for the postponement of the debate on the measure, which we request, indeed, to keep on the agenda also for tomorrow morning's sitting, taking note of the conditions of the rapporteur. At this moment nothing prevents us, for our part, from moving to the general discussion of draft law No 580 on the rationalization of powers in the field of the demolition of unfair artifacts, in view of what I said in the preamble: there are no grounds for us to ask for the postponement of the measure in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u38	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, the request by the President of the 2nd Commission, on behalf of Senator Casson, excludes any other consideration of the substance of the measure, especially of parts of it: this merit would probably have led to a request for referral back to the Commission for further consideration of some of the contents, as Mr Caliendo had just asked for. However, Senator Casson's objective reason prevails, so we agree with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u41	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, in wishing Senator Casson a speedy recovery, we do not oppose the request for postponement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you on behalf of Senator Casson, who cannot speak. CASTALDI (M5S). We ask you, however, if possible, to schedule the measure for tomorrow, check the health conditions of Senator Casson, and perhaps continue the examination on Monday or Tuesday, setting a certain date.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u44	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too are in solidarity at this very difficult time with Senator Casson. We're really close to him. However, I would like to point out that it seems to me extremely clear that this majority is in extreme difficulty, and I think that this is because of the work done by the North League these days, which has made a tough and serious opposition. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I therefore call on this composite and varied majority to think well about what it has done and to refer the text back to the Commission, because it must be amended and the crime of illegal immigration must be reintroduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u45	Senator, you don't get the credit for Senator Casson's illness, otherwise you get a bad name.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u48	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, if there is a direct radio and someone listens to us from home, we are really giving a pitiful image of this national Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, it's not like that. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). May I express my thoughts? Yesterday, some of my colleagues addressed radio listeners and listeners from home, and I intend to do the same. On the health conditions of Senator Casson ‐ we would miss something else ‐ we manifest total solidarity: it is quite obvious that he cannot speak and it is quite clear that we completely marry his request for postponement and, indeed, we also clearly hope that he will recover as soon as possible. However, Mr President, one thing is this and one thing is the substantive issues, which I do not think can be mixed up in this matter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u49	You're right, I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u50	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). My colleagues in the League applaud me for probably pretending to understand the opposite of what I'm saying. I think the opposite of what colleagues from the League say. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group. Applause from Senator Cardinals]] , from which I am separated, from the things they have said, from a sidereal distance on the substance of the debate: this measure, on the other hand, must reach the Chamber as soon as possible, because for once the national Parliament can give the country a sign of civilization. I hope, therefore, that the sign of civilization will arrive as soon as possible, together with the healing of Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u53	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my view of Mr Casson's extremely precarious situation. If, however, they are interpreted as a political weakness of the majority in addressing this issue, because the rapporteur is not in a position to do so, then I would ask for his replacement. I remember that for a very long time we have been waiting for this measure, albeit mild, and we cannot be subjected to the grievance. That must be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u56	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, I do not want to be ironic, but we must not go too far from the medical point of view, because it is a trivial aphony. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, in Parliament - and I stress the term 'Parliament' - an aphony - you understand that - is not a secondary disease. ROMANO (PI). I would like to complete the argument. Being simply a trivial aphony, I think it is necessary not to give interpretations that go beyond, in a contentistic dimension. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u57	Silence, colleagues, excuse me, let me listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u58	ROMANO (PI). I therefore believe that the subject, which has been discussed extensively, can, in the shortest possible time, return to the debate in this House without a confusion of arguments and without exploitation. I add, with a pinch of irony, that it is necessary to avoid exceeding in greetings to Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u59	Of course, those who listen to us from home worry, otherwise (for example his relatives). Senator Casson is suffering only from aphony Having all the groups on this subject, the Presidency, having interpreted the facts, believes that it can move on to the other item on the agenda. As soon as Senator Casson is in a position to perform his full duties as rapporteur, we will resume the examination of the measure. It would be wrong to conclude work, as there are senators present and matter to be discussed. The Presidency therefore considers that work should be continued and that the next item on the agenda should be discussed. I repeat that as soon as Senator Casson is in a position to speak, we will resume the examination of bill No. 925 and related. The decision therefore completely ignores the issues of substance addressed in the general discussion and in the political debate. This is only the problem that we have all been able to see. However, aphony in Parliament is a serious disease: it is not an absolute disease, but it is a serious disease where one has to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u60	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 580. I recall that in the afternoon session of 3 October 2013, the rapporteur, Senator Caliendo, integrated the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u61	Mr President, abusing is certainly a very painful problem for our country. It is yet another failure, as well as the political blackmail of the various administrations: we know that. Every ten years we have had a pardon on time: three in thirty years. It is true that in Italy, especially in the South, the municipalities very often lack urban plans, so they still regulate urban planning with the plans of manufacture, now derived from 1982. This, however, is part of blackmail: to remove a right to grant a building allowance by way of derogation. I remember that at every announcement of condone building in our lands we saw born in one night only abusive buildings, at an incredible speed for our ability to realize the building works. Yet it is time to say enough. It is difficult politically to take this position, because it violates the right of so many, or at least of so many who believe that they have acquired a right with the abusive work. But that's not how it is. [[Brusio.]] A political, ethical, social and cultural revolution must be carried out in this country. In fact, this country has absolutely lost its ethics. Just look at you in this House. True, in Campania there is a greater concentration of abuse: 80,000 abusive works, representing 20% of those present throughout the country; but if in Campania there are 80,000, it means that in the rest of Italy there are at least 400,000. Therefore, with difficulty and with great pain for those who believe they have obtained a right because they have made a political exchange, having not guaranteed the right urban conditions from their own administration, to this man, to this woman, to this family I must unfortunately repeat that it is time to say enough. Now we've moved on to the downfalls. The PdL, at the end of the ten years, tried to propose a new pardon, but this was not approved and then, with a bill, tried to put in the hands of a political figure, the prefect, that which was already in the hands of the judiciary, forgetting however that the provision comes precisely from the prefect and it is when this is not activated that the power to act passes into the hands of the judge. Fortunately, this aspect has been reviewed in the Commission, but then, more sophisticatedly, more subtlely, a new proposal has been made, the one on the list of priorities which, at first glance, may also seem a matter of opportunity, but I do not think it is. The draft law under discussion in this House today places in fourth place the demolition of buildings in the responsibility of persons convicted of mafia crimes, in fifth place the demolition of buildings built on state property, and in sixth and seventh place, respectively, the demolition of tourist villages and second houses. However, that is not what worries me; I am concerned that Article 665 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not allow the appeal of the act, but allows for an accident of execution to be brought. I believe that all deception lies right there, and that is what the legislators in the Commission have focused on. Through the execution accident, in fact, the party will be able to ascertain the legal requirements and therefore to inflate, slow down, procrastinate the measure indefinitely. [[Brusio.]] Thank you particularly for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u62	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u63	Mr President, I was struggling, believe me, to hear Mr Nugnes' speech sitting a few inches away from me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u64	It would take some generalized aphonia for those who should listen. Colleagues, at least try to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u65	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before the House seeks to rationalise the sanctioning procedures for town planning offences with regard to demolition priorities. The theme of the demolition of abusive artifacts is particularly felt in many areas of the South of the country, especially in Campania, where the spread of the phenomenon and the failure to apply building condons has made the situation objectively very serious and socially incandescent. It is thought that there are even 70,000 demolition orders issued and there is even a triple number of proceedings already initiated. We are talking, basically, about a city of medium-large size entirely abusive, to be razed to the ground. Speaking of defeats, incidentally, I cannot fail to mention a paradoxical situation, which can be traced back to my hometown, Vicenza. In Vicenza even the new court - a building built inside a huge building - seems to have been built in violation of the current urban regulations, with reference to respect for the safe distances from the city rivers. A statement has been presented on this and a judicial investigation is under way. We look forward to hearing, therefore, whether this symbol of justice must also be broken down, as it is abusive (perhaps in part). In any case, returning to the local question, the first thing to be wondered is how it was possible for the phenomenon of abusive artifacts to reach such a gigantic scale in Campania. The authorities delegated to the territorial controls what have they done all this time? We are not faced with a phenomenon of some scattered building abuse, as a result of poorly done controls. Both eyes have been closed here since time immemorial. The authorities responsible for control have, in fact, renounced the urban government of the territory, causing enormous and irreparable damage to the territory itself, the economy and the security of its inhabitants. Political responsibilities are as gigantic as the size of this scandal, unworthy of a civilized country. Equally scandalous is the attempt by some political forces present here to close the issue with a building pardon, which would have meant yet another failure of the State from the performance of its main functions. A surrender of the State to widespread lawlessness; an incentive for further dispossession of the territory. Some abusive properties to be demolished are in full availability of the organized underworld; others are built on state property areas or, worse, subject to environmental and landscape constraints. Other buildings have still been built in areas subject to hydrogeological and archaeological constraints. There are even whole complexes and abusive tourist villages. The fact that it is possible to execute only a very small fraction of the demolition orders every year requires an approach to the problem of the very long term. Yet the consequences on the safety plan, linked for example to the alterations of the hydrogeological balance of a particularly delicate territory in this respect, would impose a procedure for the execution of demolitions much more expedited, fast and effective, in order to restore as soon as possible a minimum legal context, which for too long has been fugitive. A long time ago we set up in the Senate a parliamentary committee of inquiry into intimidation against local administrators. It would have been much more useful to discuss the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to shed light on the political responsibilities that have led to such a large destruction of the territory of Campania. Political responsibilities, connivances and relations with the organized underworld perhaps explain in part this phenomenon, which could never have acquired such a large dimension without a specific pre-ordered design. Of course, we are pleased that the original text of the draft law, which concentrated in the hands of the prefect the power to proceed with the demolitions, was put aside in the course of the debate in the Commission on justice, as it was widely considered a sort of implicit pardon. The current text under discussion, completely reworded, confines itself to listing the priority criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive artifacts; it proposes the inclusion of a special article, the 44- bis in the single text; it therefore establishes the priority criteria for the execution of demolition procedures to which the public prosecutor responsible for carrying out the demolitions of the arranged works must be held. In principle, we are not opposed to a list of priorities, which establishes the need to proceed with abatement works, starting with constructions, which constitute a danger to the safety of people. The measure then considers the buildings under construction, those related to the organized underworld, those of high environmental impact and so on. Its logic is in fact to procrastinate, as far as possible, the demolitions of buildings inhabited by households that do not have any other housing solution and therefore to limit, as far as possible, the social impact of demolitions. It is therefore not intended to limit the executions of slaughter sentences, but to give priority to those most urgent and of minor social impact. On the other hand, some of the prosecutors concerned are already following an order of priority in the execution of the killings. This rule, therefore, would create a common rule, without, of course, limiting the enforceability of the measures themselves, but indicating to the authorities responsible the order of priority of executions. In principle, therefore, we are not opposed (in principle, I repeat), but this does not mean that we are satisfied with the text presented. As explained widely in the Commission, the listing of too many priority levels to be respected could make the practical application of the standard complex. In the presence of a plurality of procedures to be activated within the same district, in fact, could emerge disputes and appeals of the measures of reduction, claiming that it should not be carried out a certain reduction before having exhausted the demolitions previewed from the levels indicated with greater priority. Furthermore, given that in reality many buildings are not easily and uniquely related to the categories of buildings listed in the measure, the possibility that this standard would fail to meet the stated objectives and thus constitute a further legal base for delaying the execution of all the destructions is a real concern. We have sought to remedy this by proposing a number of amendments which aim to eliminate or at least limit this danger, for example by introducing a more limited number of priorities, thus grouping them into several levels of priority, which would therefore remain in the availability of the prosecutor. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing a partially favourable opinion on this measure, because it is possible to accept the improved amendments which, of course, aim at achieving greater effectiveness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u66	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u67	Mr President, once again, at the risk of being boring, our approach is pragmatic. We realized perfectly well that the problem exists, especially in some areas of Campania (it seemed to us to understand), and it concerns the management of the thousands of executive judgments that dispose of the demolition of illegal property following criminal judgments. Our approach to the issue was simply an attempt to address the problem by trying to make our contribution and, as my previous colleagues have already explained (I run the risk of repeating myself), we first opposed it when, in its first version, the measure delegated the prefects to establish the priorities of the demolition orders. This, in fact, exposed to our eyes the whole plant to the risk that government, ministerial action (being the prefecture - as we know - a territorial unit of the Government) could to some extent be influenced by extrajudicial decisions and considerations. And we have thus obtained that this scale of priority, as the text proposed today, must be in the readiness of the prosecutors. This seemed to us to be a first basic guarantee on which we could reason. In essence, the doubts that Mr Cappelletti has already raised remain on our part: if it is reasonable to draw up a list of priorities to which the prosecutors are required to comply, there is an undeniable risk that, in drawing up this classification, the owner of the property referred to in point (l), who is notified of the demolition order in execution of a judgment already final, may claim in the execution accident, as Mrs Nugnes has explained, the fact that other insistent properties in the same territory belong to categories with prevalence over the same list (letter c) or letter d). This, in our view, means that there is a risk, despite the good intentions of the proposers of the bill, that the concrete action of the demolition works can be slowed down, with the obvious judicial actions, obviously legitimate, by those who were to use them. For this reason, in one of the amendments we propose a simplification, a combination of these categories, leaving, of course, those mentioned in the letter to be protected... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u68	I would point out to my fellow Members who speak in general debate one at a time: it is not that everyone participates in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u69	BUCCARELLA (M5S). The owners of the buildings referred to in point (m), i.e. households which do not have other housing solutions, must continue to be guaranteed and therefore point (m) must remain a separate category, whereas the previous ones may be merged into two categories only and not into the current ten or eleven. This, in our view, could largely eliminate the risk of instrumental recourses by those who want to oppose, in an instrumental way, the actual demolition of the property. We therefore hope that this amendment will be adopted. Without being able to anticipate everything now, this could be the favour of the Group to which I belong. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u70	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u71	Mr President, this measure is very much felt in our territories. However, in the study of this measure, we cannot fail to point out morally that we are trying to contract the desperation of the citizens with the profit of your senders, of your financiers. It is not possible to examine a list of priorities and note that the crimes of Camorra are at the bottom: it is just out of all logic, not to say out of mind. Therefore, if there is a basis of justice within, especially those desperate families that have as their only home these houses, which perhaps do not even bother and are not in those areas at risk, we absolutely want to help them, we want to meet them. But we must tell these people that they are contracting their desperation with their senders. That is the big problem, Mr President. Every time we find ourselves with measures that may contain something good, but in which are inserted the biggest pigs. Remove the scumbags and we will support the right measures. But, in the name of the Italian people and the honest citizens, remove the scumbags and bring justice forward. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). What kind of filth? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators, please. He's said it by now. There's no need to repeat it. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I conclude with one sentence: never bargain with the desperation of the citizens with the benefit of their people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u72	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u73	Mr President, let us finally touch on this dramatic issue. I am listening to the speeches of my colleagues with whom, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we met in the Justice Commission. We were many, there were representatives of all the Groups, including the 5 Star Movement, the League, and all the parties of the present majority. I remember that there was a desire to find convergence on this dramatic issue. We are talking not about crime - there is also this, of course - but about people who live in these houses and who may not even know what they were going to buy, with enormous sacrifices. What do you want to do with this bill? One must reason with one's head, but one must also have some Christian pity and think that there are people who suffer, people who are uncomfortable, who are now in poverty. We want to act by establishing criteria not of subjectivity, as could be the case for the first legislative proposal on the part of the prefect, who had a discretionary character, but with criteria of objectivity acting through the PMs of the prosecutors of competence and going to influence the priorities. What are the properties to be demolished first? Colleagues, with 70,000 killings we cannot think of creating, especially in Campania, an indiscriminate artificial earthquake. And how do we plan to deal with the disposal of the ruins of these demolitions, also on the basis of a well-known criticality regarding the land of fires and the problem of waste? Let's start with the priorities: the buildings with a high environmental impact, the buildings definitely linked to organised crime, the buildings that constitute commercial activities. The second floor will have to come to those homes where families live that have nowhere else to go. It's not second houses, it's tourist villages. On this it is very easy to make barricades, but it is necessary to act with the objectivity of people who legislate on a dramatic theme: the home. We all know that even entire municipalities in Campania are abusive and even buildings that house municipal councils. Therefore, we begin to establish the priorities of the killings, otherwise we really risk setting up an earthquake at a time of severe social distress. And you know better than I what are the conditions of social and economic criticality, especially in the areas of the Mezzogiorno and Campania. I therefore believe that this bill signed by Senator Ciro Falanga, and signed by many others, goes in the right direction, of common sense, of legality linked to the existing priorities on such a delicate and dramatic subject; a subject that certainly is at the heart of all the colleagues of the various political formations. Then I hope that, on this, we will find that feeling of cooperation that I had initially found in the Justice Commission. They're people, they're inhabitants, and they're not criminals. So, I don't understand what scumbags Senator Puglia was referring to. They are citizens who want to live in legality, but who want to find suitable answers without being put in the middle of a road with solutions - I repeat - that do not take into account the crisis that the Mezzogiorno is currently experiencing. I therefore fully support the prompt adoption of this bill. I would like to thank all my colleagues who will contribute to solving this problem, which is really a social tragedy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u75	Mr President, Mr Mussolini, with passion - you are a bell - has managed to grasp the importance of the bill and of this rationalization of the competences in the matter of the demolition of abusive artifacts, although you too, like me, said that we needed a little more courage and that we had to go a little beyond what we are doing. However, the Democratic Party realized that, in fact, it was wrong and that what the Campania Region did with the then President Bassolino was not fair, nor correct, because it prevented the citizens of Campania from taking advantage of national laws to heal, with certain characteristics, the structures that were abusive. What I'm saying is so true that the laws then passed by the Region were judged unconstitutional by the Consulta. So, there was just an animus laedendi towards the citizens of Campania. Look, here we are in a period of lean cows. As Mrs Mussolini said, 70,000 house demolition orders have been issued; and there is a triple number of procedures already initiated that, if they were to be concluded, would result in the demolition of 210,000 housing units, equivalent to the surface of the entire city of Naples, with costs estimated at 5 to 7 billion euros. 18.13 (Follow Barani). Let's say, yes, at a time like this, judges are omniscient and intervene in everything. They intervene on the care of the people (think of the case Stamina); they intervene on the Regional Councils, saying whether they must remain or not (I think of Piedmont) and declaring the related acts all null; they intervene and decide whether a person should live or die; they intervene on the demolitions. I mean, if we don't stop them, they'll soon decide whether we can get married or not, or whether we can have sex with our women. Having said that, in this bill there is an attempt to find a solution, within the great mediation that we have had to do with those who evidently still have the blind eye and believes that when a citizen, as happened in Campania, bought a house with the use of all his savings, even if the abuse made it by the person who built it, and the notary had it sold, by notarial act, us that house, to the family that bought it with all the sacrifices of a lifetime, we should go and demolish it because in 1970 it was built without the building permit. This is not how people are treated, it is not how people behave in proper administration. It cannot be the arbitrariness of the judge to decide: "This is, this is not." How is it possible to demolish 70,000 structures at the same time? Where do we put the calcinacci, the waste related to the demolition? Should we take them to Lombardy? Let's make them pan for focaccia? Since they brought down the toxic waste, we're bringing up the knuckleheads. It could also be a solution to fill Lake Garda or Como. But alive, God, a little rationality is needed! Until we decide to eliminate prefectures, they must serve something in matters of public order. In the municipalities, for questions related to sanitary policies the mayor still remains the authority. Let us give them the opportunity to indicate the buildings that we must demolish and those that we must maintain. It is not conceivable, friends and colleagues, to demolish 210,000 homes: it is not conceivable. Sooner or later we will have to make a decision on what we can condone - a bad word - because it does not constitute an environmental problem, on what was done with the sacrifice of the families, of the Italian citizens who live there and who, perhaps, have realized the enlargement of a room because they had 20 children, or have built a bathroom. Do we want to demolish everything because of our mentality that leads us to judge who did something that was not to be done or who bought a house that a notary allowed him to buy with sacrifices, with the savings of a lifetime? No, friends and colleagues, that's not how you administer a region or a country. You don't live with feelings of resentment. As legislators, we must protect the public interest, the environmental interest, but also that of citizens. That is why I am announcing that we are going to vote in favour of this measure because it is nothing. The one Senator Falanga presented was a good bill. We reduced it in its expression, we did not do anything, but the first draft of this provision was better. It would be better (and that is what we support) if sooner or later some Government that truly represents and finally Italy carried out a pardon, a serious pardon for all the national territory. Afterwards, of course, laws can be made so that administrations have the possibility to watch constantly and systematically, pain of their dissolution, if abusive constructions are carried out! It cannot be said that nobody knew anything because many homes were built in the 1970s, but - I repeat - at a time when the level of unemployment is skyrocketing (especially in the South, where youth unemployment is higher than 43%) we cannot further impoverish this country, with tenacity. I cannot understand how families who have made a bathroom, an extra room or a sanitation service can be hated, making sacrifices to buy a house that we would like to demolish at the expense of the whole community. [[Applause from Senators Falanga and Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u76	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about the phenomenon of abuse without framing it in the more general urban building boom that has led to the current disastrous territorial situation, a real soil cancer. The house is considered an end, a conquest of life for many families, while for others it is considered an investment, an opportunity of savings; for real estate owners it is considered an opportunity of speculation, to be shared with the partycracy from time to time dominant. Immobiliarism has conditioned society and politics, forming itself as a privileged sector, a flywheel of the economy and a major occupational revival, as we have seen on the occasion of seismic events, and often outside of legality. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has changed: soil consumption is on the limit, the house must be seen as a service, so guaranteed everywhere at low prices. The most general interests, such as the quality of life, the urban environment and the environment as a whole, must be given priority. In this context, we can no longer talk about sanatories, nor - worse still - continue to do so at parliamentary level, trying to impose on the regions and municipalities behaviours and rules that are their full competence. Today we urgently need to protect our environment, agricultural soil, our history, our historic centers and our architectures. This is a primary need, of our full competence, about which we must try to make the administrative structure more organic and effective, in order to find more rapid forms of repression and sanctioning. Abbusivism must find urban solutions at local level, if it does not create irreparable damage to the environment and to the ground, if it does not have too high costs of urban recovery and reintegration, if it is not the result of speculative maneuvers aimed at enhancing the real estate. It can be taken into consideration by the municipal level, colleagues, non-parliamentary, examined urbanly and be subject to specific, but organic, variants of urban recovery, with consequent payment of the urban-social costs. Our legislative intervention could only be limited to this role, bringing together the relevant actors, behaviour, sanctions and recovery costs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u78	Senator Sollo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u79	Madam President, in congratulating Senator Caliendo on his report, I see that there is so much confusion in this matter: many probably confuse the measure that we are going to approve with the building pardon; therefore, it is better to do a very small chronostory to clarify what this phenomenon derives from and what it is. Senator Barani spoke of abusive houses built in the 1970s, but that is not the case: the Campania Region has regularly taken advantage of the condons provided for in Law No. 47 of 1985 and Law No. 724 of 1994. In 2003, instead, there was a recourse to the Consulta by three Regions in Italy, including Campania, through the then Governor Bassolino (and, as you know, we as center-left tend to be opposed to the condones, both fiscal and construction). This did not allow a large number of Campanian and Neapolitan citizens to take advantage of the pardon; when Bassolino's appeal was declared unconstitutional, only part of it could be accessed. Part of this phenomenon therefore derives from this. Another situation that has generated the measure that we are about to approve is that the Single Text of the building adopted, by decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001, in the face of a judgment passed in court, gives the prefect the full discretion to determine which artifacts must be killed first. Third factor: in Campania the various prosecutors, clearly after the prefect gives the communication to execute the demolition, do not all behave in the same way, as the Senator Capacchione will explain. For example, the Public Prosecutor of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, signing an agreement with the Prefect of Caserta, has established a kind of criteria to follow, which are the same that we are going to determine with this provision. So, be careful, we are not saying that abusive artifacts must not be cut down: they must all be cut down (and then I will do something about the pardon), but I want to explain why it is necessary to establish criteria. In some cases, where no criteria were taken into account and there was no agreement with the prefecture, there was evidence that cases of colossal building speculation and artifacts belonging to the underworld or destined for criminal activity did not give rise to destruction (you will have read of the recent scandal of the famous official who took bribes to get more and more under some practices), while those who had committed - as Senator Barani and Senator Mussolini said before - a small abuse, perhaps with properties belonging to those who do not have property, cases of poverty (famous letter m) of the ranking that you have very masterfully outlined in the Commission) were notified the order of slaughter. Others who had committed far more serious crimes were not affected. That's the speech. At the beginning of the examination of this bill, before we even discussed it in the Commission, we talked about it and examined it, a bit like bell towers, together with Senators Caliendo, Falanga, Cuomo and Capacchione and President Nitto Palma. We dealt with this problem, and there was, even from my party friends, the terror of the famous building pardon. Nobody asks for the building pardon: here we simply want to determine how to urge the prosecutors and prefects to take note of this ranking, of this criterionology, in order to establish what must be demolished before and what must be demolished after. Another discourse is the building pardon. When we talked about it (I also talked about it with my friends) we absolutely did not ask for an ex novo building condon. We bell towers simply want to be put on the same footing as the other citizens of the other Italian regions (but this is another thing). We simply want to be able to adhere to the condon of 2003, as all Italy has joined: point and that's it. But this is another problem, which is not the subject of this debate; it will be the subject of any further action, we will talk about it, and if that is the case, the problem will be dealt with. As regards the criteria to be followed, dear Senator Nugnes, I may tend to agree with you, but I say to you: it is not a matter of fourth or third place. In the first place, the artifacts that represent a danger to public and private safety must necessarily be put in place. It is provided for by the law: you cannot put others first, because they must be killed immediately. In the second place there are the buildings under construction, so as not to degenerate the problem of building abuse and stop the problem at birth. The third and fourth points could have been merged (I think so many of these points can be merged into one). What is important - I would like to make it clear to Senator Puglia - is that we do not trade anything, but we simply try to help the poor people and the needy. If the famous letter (m) of paragraph 1, Article 1 has been provided for, it is precisely for this reason, and was last placed in the list of criteria to be followed. The categories could then be eleven, seven or five, but I don't think that's the problem. I even believe that the Commission, if proposed, would have been prepared to listen to and combine certain points. In fact, I believe that Article 1 (c) always refers to the property used for the carrying out of criminal activities, and letter (d), that is, the property belonging to persons convicted of Mafia crimes, could be merged: they are exactly the same thing; the same applies to buildings of significant environmental impact or built on state property, or those that are the result of an abusive lottage: these could also be understood in one place. So if the points, instead of eleven, had been five or six, nothing would have changed at all. I conclude with a consideration, which must be made, on the pardon. Very often the friends of the League attack us southerners. I must say that I have an excellent relationship with my colleagues in the League (especially personal, with some of you), but we must take inspiration from one circumstance: not all of us southerners are camorrists, mafias and delinquents; so many of us are very good people. When we talk about a possible reopening of the terms of the pardon, it is implied, if we were to do so, that the properties belonging to the mafia or to the camorra, or attributable to them, are automatically excluded: there is no need to talk about it either. As far as PD is concerned, this is completely unnecessary. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups. Ironic applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u80	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u81	Madam President, allow me a brief digression. The draft law No 580-A, which we are examining, has a characteristic that I would like to stress because of its rarity: it is a bill of parliamentary initiative. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, the government monopoly of the legislative initiative, imposed by continuous decree-laws, is interrupted by this bill. I therefore do not know whether I welcome the arrival in the Chamber of a bill proposed by my colleague Mr Falanga, regret the rarity of the event, or, finally, envy my colleague for the luck of having completed the legislative process at least in one branch of Parliament. I would point out that, thanks to the work done in Parliament on this draft law, the text, initially composed of two articles, now consists of only one article. This new wording was in fact possible because no urgency, linked to the expiry of the classic sixty days linked to the decree-laws, contracted the time for discussion and comparison in the Commission. As many as eleven sessions in the Justice Commission, from June to July 2013, were devoted to this bill. In any case, by closing the digression, my wish is that it should not happen again to have to salute the debate in the Chamber of a bill of parliamentary initiative as a rare event and, therefore, worthy of reporting. On the other hand, it is our Constitution that provides that the legislative function is the responsibility of Parliament and, only exceptionally, can it be the prerogative of the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Entering into the substance of the measure, it is regrettable to have to note that the phenomenon of building abuse is so widespread that this bill aims to give priority to execution for the demolitions. The State admits that it is now impossible to run in times, I do not say certain, but not humanly reasonable, to all the demolition orders. It is therefore necessary to define what will be done before and after. In fact, the political class itself, which in recent decades has practiced a deplorable and condemnable laxity in countering the phenomenon, is now concerned with defining the waiting list of demolitions, defining legal criteria. I now wonder whether this is the purpose of this bill. In short, I wonder whether having identified a number of cases and, in fact, having identified a priority for abuse will not result in a number of appeals from the parties concerned. In fact, it is reasonable to expect that, for merely delaying purposes, the non-compliance with a priority now defined by law will be contested against the execution of the killing. We consider it appropriate to group together in a smaller number of cases, now organised into eleven categories, the different situations of building abuse. In this way, it will be possible to avoid inflating the courts with appeals and requests for suspension, in short, all those dilatory techniques that would represent a further mockery against those who, on the other hand, respect the rules. Let us not forget, in fact, that, even in areas where abusing construction is practiced all too widespread (here I am referring to Campania and other regions of the South), there are many citizens who respect the rules, whose behavior must be rewarded even punishing those who, on the other hand, have not respected these rules. Finally, let us remember that the gravity of the phenomenon is before everyone's eyes. It is not only environmental and landscape damage, but it puts people's lives at risk. The chronicles periodically deliver news of collapses of buildings, with relative mourning, due to the failure to respect the building rules. For years it has been chosen to turn a blind eye, if not both, justifying the abuse of buildings thanks to the identification of the phenomenon with the necessity linked to the need of the first house (this speech is also aired in this House). More often, however, it was and is about building speculation, favored in many ways: lacked controls by the technical offices of the Municipalities, companies of public services that have activated domestic users (water, light, gas) even in the absence of valid building concession and, above all, through the absurd practice of building sanatories, that have been a green light to this practice not adequately contrasted. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] It is ultimately a draft law which should never have been voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u82	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a measure which wants to put an order in a situation of widespread emergency, particularly for certain regions of the South. According to the report "Ecomafia 2013" of Legambiente, the turnover or, better, the total non-taxation in Italy of the illegal building market in the decade 2003-2012, for about 280,000 new illegal houses, would be more than 19 billion euros. The impact of illegal construction on the construction market would have increased from 9% in 2006 to 17% in 2013. While the new legal structures have collapsed from 300,000 to 120,000, the abusive ones have suffered a much lighter fall: from 30,000 in 2006 to 26,000 in 2013. All this in an overall framework that, especially in recent years, sees the real estate and building market in great pain. The demolition orders issued in Campania from 2000 to 2011 were in total 18,000; of these, only 828 were executed, just 4.5 percent. In most cases, the investigation of the abuse and the adoption of the relative order of demolition does not result in the execution due to lack by the municipalities, which would have the obligation to replace the defaulting subject and then to make economic use of it, of the relevant financial resources necessary. I remember demolishing a building costs more or less as much as building it in the rough. CUOMO (PD). No, it's more expensive. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Not surprisingly, in 81 percent of the decrees with which the municipalities of the Campania Region have been dissolved since 1991 to date, among the reasons is reported a widespread abuse of buildings, repeated cases of real estate speculation, practices of unevaded demolition. In this bleak context is the present provision that, taking the basis of practices adopted by certain prosecutors of the Republic in the districts of Naples and Salerno and, in particular, by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in agreement with the prefecture of Caserta, identifies some priorities in giving an order to demolition practices. The idea is to standardize such rankings throughout the national territory. The highest priority is given to buildings that are a risk to public and private safety, the minimum to buildings inhabited by persons belonging to households that have no other housing solution. If the bill is passed, the most disturbing aspects of building abuse should indeed be repressed by the demolition of buildings. However, this measure is likely to eliminate the danger of demolition for those abusive buildings that have a low priority, leading to a sort of de facto impunity. It should not, however, be overlooked that such impunity is now in fact. It is important, on the one hand, that the municipalities be provided with the financial means to undertake all the demolition work; on the other hand, that the measure itself is not a prelude to a pardon for low priority buildings. With this hope, which will have to translate into acts of the Government and other public administrations, Civic Choice for Italy will express itself in a favorable way compared to the bill in question. [[Applause from Senator Cuomo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u84	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u85	Madam President, after listening to my fellow Members' comments on this measure, it is also up to us to make some of them. We are aware (just to see the report presented to the bill) of the reality that has come, unfortunately, to create in some areas of the country, where entire neighborhoods have been built - I don't even say whole countries - in almost completely abusive way and we are also aware of the people who live inside those houses, who probably have invested for them with a mortgage their own resources in order to live there. But what is truly incomprehensible to us - and I would like to point out just before examining the merits of the measure - is how another urbanistic planet can really exist compared to the one in which we are used to living in our northern areas. We are faced with realities that we believe are incomprehensible, as we find it incomprehensible, in some ways, the work of some administrators. I would like to say a few words on this point: many members of our Parliamentary Group have had experience as administrators (I myself am still city planning director in my own country) but it would be absolutely inconceivable for us to have a building reality in the absence of a concession, agibility and, probably, a certification of the compliance of the plants. That is why we say that this is a major problem, a problem also for the administrators of those areas, and the solutions proposed are basically very perplexing. From this point of view, of course, we can only share the fact that, from our personal point of view, we prefer to see first an abusive property belonging to a mob association than that of a poor family that is in a situation of poverty, but then we wonder how in practice the process can take place in order to follow up these demolition orders. In some respects we welcome the outcome of the examination of this draft law in the Commission. Originally it even provided for a delegation to the prefect of the place to carry out the demolitions, on which they could convey any doubts as to the priorities to be followed, and whatever else. Perhaps, then, there is better that order. However, we fear that there may in some way arise a hypothesis of appealability or litigation with regard to these demolition orders. We are concerned - but I think it is a concern that will affect everyone - about the effective execution of these demolition orders and the way they will be adopted: the fear is that of a slowdown in some way, of the demolition procedures. For these reasons, we do not express an opposition to the measure, obviously taking into account some social realities also concerning precisely the existence of many inhabited illegal buildings; however, the perplexity remains precisely about the type of procedure to be followed. In Italy, unfortunately, we are still talking about the problem of building abuse. As I said before, a house with a certificate of agibility and a building permit has security guarantees. On buildings built in the absence of permits and agility, there are many doubts about the safety of those who live there. We in the North League are always convinced that, first of all, the law must always be respected: we should not even hear about abuse anymore. In some ways, an error in the design and execution could also exist, but seeing entire homes, entire neighborhoods and countries built without any authorization or even insertion in the land register raises another doubt: where do you pay the IMU? On which property is the IMU paid, if it does not exist even cadastrally? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And the revenue from the IMU that should have been paid but which is not currently paid, by what is it compensated? Hence our usual consideration that perhaps only or mainly some areas pay, and others perhaps, unfortunately, do a little less. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] In conclusion, we have proposed amendments which, in some respects, we consider to be better than the text, but we will not fail to vote on amendments which may also be tabled by other groups to improve the draft law. Finally, we reiterate that abuse must not be resolved but must be eliminated. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u87	Madam President, I am in a position to speak in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, but the ten minutes I have been allowed to speak in that Chamber would not have been enough for me to make a few comments which I intend to make now, moreover, with the outcome of the speeches of some of the 5 Star Movement senators and, last but not least, of Senator Stefani of the North League. I have to make a premise. I do not know if it is the same for the other parts of Italy - I think it happens everywhere - but for us people of the South the house is not only made of walls and furnishings: the house is the place where passions and emotions are concentrated and lived, where mourning is consumed, where one rejoices for the birth of a child. Unlike the young man who lives in the perspective of the future, an elderly person, over eighty years old, lives according to the past, the past represents his life and his life has been consumed within his home. In this spirit, and knowing the uneasiness of many families, at the beginning of this legislature I committed myself to imagining a bill that in a dramatic situation placed at least a note of justice merely by providing for a graduation of the killings. Senator Nugnes, you are appreciated as an architect, but allow me: do not speak of law in this House, because at the moment when you are dealing with this matter you say, alas, bad things, which denote ignorance (obviously on the subject, let it be clear: I have specified that you are appreciated as an architect). [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] Don't react, Senator. I'll explain why I'm saying this. You said that the responsibility for issuing the slaughter measure was already up to the prefect. So, what was the purpose of the bill in its original wording? Did the prefect, who was already competent, have competence? It's not like that. If you would like to take a look at the history, including the procedural history, of this matter, you would realize that what you have said is not correct, and here I also respond to Senator Stefani, who said that the original wording of the measure assigned a delegation to the prefect. Senator Stefani, that's not correct. In fact, some 30 years ago, the administrative authority gave a delegation in this area to the judicial authority. [[Notes of dissent from Senator Nugnes, who approaches FI-PdL XVII and gives a sheet to Senator Perrone]] The demolition order is of a purely administrative nature and as such was the responsibility of the prefecture, or local authorities. Senator Puglia said that in fourth place we put real estate in some way linked to criminal organizations and camorrists. Senator Puglia, that's not true; it's not dirty. When I imagined this bill, keeping in mind the discomfort of my people, I did not intend to make a scumbag; I intended to do justice. I do not allow you, therefore, to say that under this provision there is a scum, because in the first place we have indicated the dangerous properties, for the protection of public safety, while in the third place those properties used for the carrying out of criminal activities, for which we are already there. Therefore, it is in the order of things that property owned by persons possibly connected with organized crime would end up in the position in which they are located in the text of the measure. I am tired of hearing about organised crime when it comes to building abuse in a land where, unlike Padania - of which Senator Stefani has punctual knowledge - it is not even possible to open a window, for a series of constraints and bureaucratic laces that prevent the opening of even a hole or a toilet! That's the point. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The citizen then does not have a natural predisposition to legality or lawlessness: I do not think it is in DNA. I do not believe in the Lombrosian thesis, and I address President Nitto Palma: it is the social group that sometimes places the person in desperate conditions to violate the law. If we are faced with such cases, we must treat them with respect and we cannot imagine that anyone in this House, talking about the farmer or worker who, through sacrifices, has built a house of 80 square meters, signals them, adverts them or accuses them of being subject to camorristes. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] A few days ago, in the Municipality of Torre del Greco, the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples ordered the demolition of the house of an old man of seventy-eight years. Senator Puglia, you're as belligerent as I am, if I'm not mistaken of Torre del Greco: please inform yourself about this. We are talking about an old man of seventy-eight years, not married, without children, with an abusive house of 80 square meters. After the property was demolished, this person turned to the municipality, finding there an advisor to social services - a young woman, whom one day I will want to meet - who told him: Why don't you think about going to a hospice? The lady is young, but she must start to think about when she will be old and understand how difficult such a situation can be for an elder. If I take my mother and offer her a villa in Marechiaro, she refuses me because at 90 she wants to continue living in her modest house and eventually dying there. These are the human feelings and considerations that must be made when dealing with such a matter. We have not spoken of forgiveness: we are only saying what is more just than what is less just. If you will allow us, we appreciate it; indeed, I must say, Senator Capacchione, that I will publicly acknowledge your political sensitivity. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] I'll do the same to you, Senator Cuomo. You have in fact had the sensitivity to understand the problems of your people, politically assuming an attitude of collaboration, because it is here that you can realize the broad understandings, that are not built at the table, but on the cultural and educational content of a people. It is on sensitive issues and on these issues that we believe we are continuing to rely on the forces of the left, the Democratic Party, which on this occasion - I must say - have demonstrated the authority and the depth in order to be able to sit properly and proudly in this Chamber of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u88	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u89	Madam President, after this passionate speech by Mr Falanga, who legitimately wanted to take a step back from Senator Caliendo's report, because Senator Falanga explained to us the spirit in which he had thought and written his own bill, I would try to return to the development that had the original text of Falanga in the Commission and therefore to Caliendo's report. Colleagues, so far I have heard so much sociology of abusing, so much anti-God moralism, but I have not heard anyone say how this matter should be included in the constitutional and political failure of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. Senator Caliendo, with much sobriety, says this: the story arises when national legislation (let's leave it alone if right or wrong, but addressed to all Italian citizens) is blocked by two regional laws, which the Constitutional Court twice defines as unconstitutional inviting the legislator to provide. It is from this point of view that, in the last parliamentary term, my colleague Nitto Palma, who has withdrawn from Via Arenula, in the name of the rule of law also in Campania (and not in the name of Campania also in the rule of law) is promoting a similar initiative, which has been developed in the Commission's text, which Mr Caliendo explained to us. For the citizens of Campania it was not possible to use the areas and limits of national legislation, and this has meant the need to proceed, after the investigation of the judicial authority, to the execution of the sentences of condemnation from the point of view of the killing of manufactured goods. From this point of view, the bill that Mr Caliendo explained to us is not a pardon for Campania. No, it is something better: precisely thanks to parliamentary work (that is why I referred to that constitutional reform), that is, we created the gap between regional and national legislation, indeed, with horrible cynicism we entrusted it to the Constitutional Court, not only in this case. There are many conflicts in which the Court decides, and not Parliament and not the so-called Chamber of Self-Government, with which it is nice to fill the mouth of rhetoric, but on which it has never tried to legislate in the Constitution (and when we tried to expose ourselves to the rejection of the popular referendum: I am talking about eight years ago). In the debate in the Commission, the ranking was made as less discretionary as possible, and Mr Falanga was right in expressing such an easy moralism about abuse and organised crime. The meaning of this law is to create uniformity in the application of law throughout the national territory. I am Campania and I am not from Vicenza, I am not from the so-called Padania, but I will never ask for a rule of law that determines privileges for my Region; never. Guarantees yes, privileges never. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] No, it is not, and it is unfair and ungenerous that you say so, because there is a tradition of southernism that is that of Justin Fortunato, that of the southern question as the central question of the national state. Thanks to the regional institute the national state has peaked. Why have the two laws of Bassolino been considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and found no reference in the law? Precisely because that constitutional reform - and you of the League should say it with more energy than I do - was done by the left for retaliation against you, for your freedom to choose whether to ally with the center-right or with the center-left on national electoral deadlines. I therefore do not understand such improper territorialism in a measure which, thanks to the meritorious work of the Commission, has nothing territorial: it is the rule of law and the national state together. Hence the attention with which our Group will participate in the next discussion. [[Applause from Senators Companione and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u90	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u91	Madam President, we must thank the Conference of Leaders, which has finally given this House the opportunity to discuss a subject that is important to some of us: it is an important issue for some important areas of our country. Senator Caliendo's report has been timely and has highlighted the phenomenon: its size, its relevance and the importance of its resolution for some parts of the country. In this very brief speech I will try not to repeat myself with respect to the many concepts that those who have spoken before me and have highlighted, but I believe that a fundamental concept must be illustrated in this House, namely that the phenomenon of building abuse, which is relevant and has been relevant in the past years in some areas of our country, certainly has no political color; it is a phenomenon that is neither right-wing nor left-wing nor centre-wing. So, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, we should ask ourselves why, in some parts of our country, such phenomena and such entities have occurred. And we should talk about the rules that have governed the urban sector in some parts of the country in the past decades. I listened carefully to the intervention of Senator Stefani, who highlighted that he was also a local administrator. She stressed the fact that in the territories of the North in the past years so-called urban planning has been made. The planning that you, Senator Stefani, have done in your territories, establishing by law the future of the same, in other parts of the country, like the one from which I come, has never been done over the years. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let me ask you a moment, ladies and gentlemen. I am trying to highlight a concept to this House. The Campania Region, for example, to date does not have the law that regulates the country plans. The five Provinces of the Campania Region (Naples, Benevento, Caserta, Salerno and Avellino) have only a few months had the territorial plans of provincial coordination (PTCP). They've never had them before. Many municipalities in the past decades did not have regulatory plans. What was a citizen living in those territories supposed to do? I think it takes a long time to seriously discern a problem involving thousands and thousands of people. And I also think this is not the time to talk about it today. I think that a Parliament that is responsible for a real problem must have the appropriate instruments and create the conditions for a thorough examination of a certain phenomenology, putting in place a debate leading to the drafting of a resolution of the problem. Certainly the bill we are debating today does not represent the resolution of the problem, because we are simply examining a measure - as Senator Falanga said earlier and well in his speech and the other senators who preceded me - that regulates the priority over the killings, therefore in the beehive of legality. That's the truth, that's what we're talking about. We are not talking about new condones or sponges, we are simply saying that this Parliament, with regard to the presence of a serious problem, is putting a temporary remedy through legislation on demolitions. Then, again in a responsible way, we will have to ask ourselves the problem of examining the question thoroughly by checking what concrete and valid solutions can be, so that the mistakes made in the past decades are not repeated. I want to take up a concept well expressed by those who have preceded me and who are often taken outside in a wrong way. We are talking about a phenomenon that absolutely does not concern mafia, camorra, 'ndrangheta, organized underworld: none of this. It is a phenomenon that in 90-95 percent of cases affects poor people, poor people who have worked and made sacrifices to build their homes. Mine is not demagogy. I want to give an answer to Senator Stefani, if I may, compared to what is the problem of the IMU: what happens to so much IMU inevaded? I have been mayor of a country in the Campania Region for many years. I can tell you, with certain data, that paradoxically the first to pay the IMU or the tax on waste are the owners and owners of inhabited buildings, but that they are not in order from the urbanistic point of view, because, paradoxically, in their way of thinking, they believe, paying the tribute, to have the right to a sort of sanatoria. That is the truth, and that is the gravity of the problem. We are talking about thousands - I repeat: thousands - of people who own a modest home and nothing more; we are absolutely not talking about anything else. Madam President, I believe that politics must above all be capable of giving concrete answers to people's problems. What we are talking about is a real problem, a real problem that thousands of people, in the most disparate areas of our country (and, in particular, in Campania), are living and for which they are suffering daily: I refer to the tragedy of demolition. I believe that politics must give - in this case, responsibly, we are all doing it together - an answer, which is not definitive, but temporary, to an urgent problem, waiting for more in-depth answers to be given. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u93	Madam President, Senator Falanga, you said before that you did not know what it was like in other parts of Italy: I too do not know everything, but I can assure you that it is not so. Please put yourself in our shoes, because I'm embarrassed. You saw that before I wanted to talk to you and other colleagues to try to immerse myself in a world that, for us, is so difficult to understand, how to land on Mars. But I do so with great sincerity, because it is clear that this debate may not even have had to be done here, because from my point of view it should have been done in the Regional Assembly. It is true that the management of the territory is a matter of shared competence, but it is also true that it seems now consolidated as the government of the territory and the town planning are central elements of the function of what is the planning element of a region. It is difficult for us to understand how there can be 70,000, 80,000, 100,000 irregular housing units. I repeat: it is difficult. As I said to my colleague Capacchione, I would not be able to explain to my home that there is a country there that is not there. He's here, but he's not here. There is nothing regular: there are 30,000 people living in a place that isn't there, and maybe they pay for the IMU. I wonder, how do they pay the IMU if they're not here? Someone used to tell me that someone also made the regular passage: he went to the notary and was sold the house. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I would also like to put it mildly, because we are in difficulty interpreting this measure. But notaries around there don't arrest them? If a notary sells me a house that doesn't exist, in a place that doesn't exist, on a map that doesn't exist, this - excuse me - I throw him in jail. I also throw in jail the surveyor or architect who did the project, given the map and sold the house. Before, talking to some colleagues, it emerged that: is there a land register? Boh! Is the notary here? Boh! Is the mayor here? Boh! The C.O.O.? He didn't show up. He didn't show up. Region? Mah! You don't know. It's a little bit of a problem. But it's a little bit of a problem for the rest of the country to understand. And it's a little bit of a problem - and I'm related to what you, Senator Falanga, said - to make the rest of the country understand a sociological aspect that someone would have wanted to be drunk: in those 70,000 homes people live. Of course, my instincts would lead me to say, Do your own business and do me the courtesy of taking them all down in one day in the morning. We know, though, that people probably live in those houses. But I'd like to ask those people: who the hell have you voted to this day? The thought that comes naturally is that here not only the state is lacking. Of course, the state may be lacking on some occasions, in some situations and because of sensitivity: but who voted for these people? Have they voted for people who have sold their "Farlocco," who have sold them the "not home"? Yesterday we were talking about the non-program, but this is worse. Here is the "non casa" on the "non listo" of the "non notaio" of the "non architect." What are we supposed to do about it? Senator Falanga, my friends and colleagues, I really think they're your business. Of course, perhaps a little broader political consideration is needed. This debate, Madam President, has been debilitated as a secondary by putting it in the folds of a lack of ability of the majority to find convergence on another measure. I believe that this is a very important debate, because it contains a central sociological element. First my previous colleague, Senator De Siano, said that we are not talking about the underworld here. Maybe. I want to give him a reason, rather I take it at his word: let's not talk about bad life. But if this is the more general concept, the interpretation of legality and the relationship with one's territory of an important part of the population, the sociological element relative to self-respect and legality becomes quite broad. I'm not saying we're talking about thugs, but surely a difficult relationship with the rules seems to me there is everything! Now you will continue to debate. I would have liked to have had more enthusiasm in the speeches; dealing with a particular element, we could open a debate on the irregularity: there are the lands of fires, garbage, dumpsters, then there is Naples drowning, then the emergency for water. But it doesn't work: it doesn't work anymore! Today you come to ask the national Parliament to tell you that you are right, because Bassolino failed to make a serious pardon, he failed to make political planning. You yourself, Senator Falanga, said: you should be angry with the left. But you want me to get mad at my left? If anything, I get angry with a political class that still puts its people in trouble today, and it does so in a dramatic way. As a legist, I imagine what you told me earlier. Should I go knock down your mother's house, your grandmother's house, your aunt's house that they've been living in that house for 60 years? Should I do it? I'm telling you, you go down there and take her down! Go there with your local administrators, go there with your mayor, with the Carabinieri, with the prefect (of course I'm not referring to you personally). We have a strong sense of community. You too; indeed, perhaps you have it more than I do. But it is bad to think that a community must wait for the prefect and the prosecutor to choose how to live, to choose its quality of life, to choose not to live in lawlessness. I am amazed - I repeat, Senator Falanga, I do not want to make it long, because that is not the merit - but of course you also said something else, namely: I congratulate two colleagues - one is Senator Capacchione - because they wanted to do some things.......................................................................... But I tell you something else, Senator Falanga: those colleagues perhaps had courage, which in many of these situations I have not seen, because perhaps it takes courage to denounce lawlessness, to go to the newspapers knowing that they are unpopular, to say that these things are not good, even if they may lose their votes. And courage, as you know, either one has it or doesn't find it on the street. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u94	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u95	Madam President, as I am at my first parliamentary term, I believe that I am perhaps the last senator in this House, and in attending this debate I have to say that he has assaulted me with a doubt. I would like to address you, Madam President, who was also Minister of the Republic: I imagined that I had made a mistake and, listening to the speeches, I wondered whether we were discussing a measure other than the one which should be the subject of the general debate. Since I come from experience in local authorities, since I have been mayor for many years, a little didactically, as is normally the case in an elected assembly, one tries to bring to the attention first of all the title of the measure. It says that this is a draft law, and I am pleased that Senator Orellana has pointed this out, because it is we who often and willingly complain about the debasement of Parliament's role because of excessive legislative capacity on the part of the Commission - and I do not want the representative of the Government - in the face of a bill which has also been widely debated in the Commission, we are holding the general debate as if the subject were another one. It is therefore worth reading the title of the measure: Provisions on priority criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive articles So - I address you, Senator Volpi - we are talking about demolitions and demolition procedures. In discussing this measure, listening to the passion, including the oratory, with which many of my colleagues have been practicing before my speech, it is clear, of course, that we are dealing with a fairly complex matter. I am not a historian, nor have I been able to do very quick research while I was preparing to do this, but I would be curious to know, for example - since there is a certain emphasis, almost a moral, political, and even ethnic superiority, sometimes - who voted for the last building pardon in what was at the time the majority of government, so as to fully understand what happened. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Look at your house, you got 70,000 cases... This measure, basically, starts with a very clear and clear principle: there is a difficulty in dismantling procedures. In the debate in the Commission, we have moved from a stage in which we imagine that it should be the prefect who intervenes in the definition of demolition procedures to one in which it was rightly considered - in my opinion, precisely to avoid any discretionary power - to attribute this power to the prosecutor (and we are talking about past judgments, then demolitions to them). The purpose of the measure is, of course, to set priority criteria for demolitions, so there is no reference to any possibility of pardon, which I do not believe is ever mentioned in the article of the bill. It is therefore necessary to reason with great tranquility and serenity: I listened very carefully to the intervention of my colleague Nugnes, who, even outside of her intervention, along with other colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, expresses a perplexity about the possibility or not that this article represents an instrument in the hands of the lawyers involved in the defense of those who are the subject of these measures to create those quills that can occur in probative accidents or execution (I am not a jurist, so I venture with respect to the things that have been emphasized). I believe that the amendments that have been tabled tend to seek reassurance against this kind of risk that could be taken with this measure. The rapporteur, Senator Caliendo, together with President Palma and Senator Falanga, who is the first signatory of the bill, and the many parliamentarians who have signed it (and many are MPs of the Democratic Party who, compared to an initial distrust of the provision, have understood how the spirit is to go to order the demolition procedures, trying to avoid them from any discretionary criterion), have done a good job, because we have arrived at a bill that is certainly perfect, but it is a tool that puts us quickly in a position to give the procures of the Republic a certainty that exonerates from the will of individuals to conclude this or that protocol of understanding. Through those protocols of understanding, which are concluded between some prosecutors of the Republic, they dealt with the necessary ideas to arrive at this bill. Honestly, I do not care about those who go to contract despair (to borrow an expression used by my colleague Puglia). We must never negotiate the despair of the citizens: sometimes we see a representation of the despair of the citizens, which we must interpret in this House, because it is clear that the despair of the citizen must be represented. I, like my party, am among those who have never negotiated the despair of the citizens. We have looked at this measure as a fair measure, which puts in condition, above all, the last ones, those who have very few opportunities to defend themselves, with cries of lawyers or so good to be able to stack some practices under the files, as happened and is the subject of investigations by the prosecutor of the Republic for some procedures precisely in the matter of demolition in Campania. Here, the latter, the people who are most defenceless, I think they are entitled to have the same treatment as the people who are well-off, who have perhaps made great speculations and who are often not affected by the measures precisely because they have the ability, with various legal artifices, to cage the process and somehow hold it suspended or stationary, until they arrive at the pathology of subtraction of the file or even gradually put it in a position that avoids demolition. This provision, in our spirit and intention, goes in this direction. We will probably then have to check how this measure will be implemented in relation to the prosecutors of the Republic and the magistrates who will have to order the execution. Another problem, which is whole and exists, is how our territory has been devastated and how we must recover from a whole series of urban choices that have been made in the past. I have no difficulty in expressing a great deal of support for this measure. I do not think it is the panacea of all evils, but it certainly indicates a way forward. So, dear President, I would also like to ask for consistency: I would not like the political speculations that have been made on this subject in the past. There has been a different spirit in the discussion of this measure and I believe that there is now such maturity and also a political condition that no one can make political speculation on this measure. I believe that it would not even be fair for the people, and especially for the magistrates and all those public officials who have to do their duty. However, I believe that each of us must do what he says and must always do, and not only and above all in the election campaign. I would like to remind my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (which rightly represent a much more direct model of democracy than is imagined through the mediation of the classic parties), that during a meetup (just in Ischia, if I am not mistaken) some activists of the 5 Star Movement discussed a sort of industrious repentance in the matter of building abuse. It was discussed, it was debated: I myself had the opportunity to confront myself. The work done by the Senators colleagues who have tabled amendments seeks to combine, within their parliamentary policy, the initiative that took place during the election campaign for the general elections at a conference held in Ischia. I have no difficulty and, from this point of view, we will also discuss the amendments. We will then entrust the rapporteur, together with President Palma and all those who are engaged in the profession of lawyers outside Parliament, with the task of giving us some improvements to this measure. I would not like to enter into controversy with my colleagues in the League, and in particular with my colleague, Mr Volpi. However, I have no difficulty in explaining the reason for my position from this point of view, not least because we are not talking about building allowances. I do not believe, however, that I have the same difficulty as those Members who have perhaps had to vote on measures which would remove millions and millions of euros from the FAS funds in order to cover the sanctions on milk quotas for farmers. I don't know how they did it. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] CROSIO (LN-Aut). We're not putting it on this floor! CUOMO (PD). With regard to this measure, I am sure that I will do my duty as a Member of Parliament of the Republic and as a representative of the territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]] CROSIO (LN-Aut). You're a goat! CUOMO (PD). And you're a donkey! [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] CIRINNA' (PD). Rude! Shame! But go back to your house!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u96	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Crosio's lively protests at Senator Cuomo's address.]] Senator Crosio, I invite you to calm down and allow Senator Arrigoni to carry out his speech. Senator Arrigoni belongs to his Group and will certainly have the opportunity to engage in arguments of dispute with Senator Cuomo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u97	Madam President, I am speaking at this sitting, which wearyly begins to conclude and which deals with a bill that gives a photograph and an extremely negative image of our country: one of the many negative images of this country. It would have been desirable, in order to deal with this measure, for a direct television channel, so that the Italian people would know what is happening in certain parts of our territory. I start from the end, in reply to Mr Cuomo, who has taken up the issue of milk quotas. Senator Cuomo, we will get you the dossier on the milk quota issue and invite you to read it carefully. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This bill addresses a problem that for us senators of the North League is really inconceivable, and especially for those of us, most of us, who have been, and are still, local administrators of Municipalities and Provinces. We learn that there are at least 70,000 buildings in Naples and Campania that are to be demolished, but that there are three times so many cases of proceedings started (we therefore exceed 200,000). It is said that 70,000 buildings are equivalent to the housing units of the city of Naples. It is really an extended phenomenon, which shows what, basically, we of the League have been supporting for a long time: in this country there are two Italies. We wonder whether the housing units of these 70,000 buildings (and also those of the other 200,000) pay for electricity or whether the electrical installations of those houses are connected with flying wires to the ENEL electricity line. We wonder if these housing units pay gas and water, if they pay, as we said before, the IMU or the waste tax: we, frankly, think not. From us, in the North, but I also think in much of the territory, there are the old regulatory plans: every municipality has the regulatory plan, indeed many have also equipped themselves with the new urban planning tool, called the plan of the government of the territory. From us the Provinces have their own regulatory plan, called PTCP, territorial plan of provincial coordination. From us, the regions of Padania have the PTR, regional territorial plan. We have a hydrogeological plan for local authorities. We have acoustic zoning plans. We have PAIs and civil, municipal and intermunicipal protection plans, with high percentages, which exceed 90%. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are filling our mouths with hydrogeological failure, but do you know how many municipalities in Campania have the civil protection plan? Only 39 percent. This is a shame, which we denounce. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not having the civil protection plan means not doing prevention work, not ensuring the emergency in the face of natural disasters and hydrogeological disruptions, which are caused by man's carelessness. The urbanist instruments that the territorial authorities of the North have endowed themselves with are not only paper, but are implemented and controlled; in Campania, on the other hand, where they never exist, they are not controlled, and in fact we register continuous scandals of building abuse, such as those that we are preparing to face this evening. Someone will have the responsibility. It is not that a building is born like a mushroom from evening to morning. Where are the mayors, the provincial presidents, the control bodies, the law enforcement agencies? You never find those responsible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Puglia and Fattori]] The phenomena like those we are facing this evening are not only testimonies of the past, but they are very current, they are part of our present. I would like to mention just two examples. To Casal di Principe - and this is what the prefectial commissioner told us when we went to audition in Naples - 40% of the housing units are irregular; but do you know what the scandalous thing is? That even the remaining 60 percent doesn't have the water meter. And I come to the reflection before. The totality of houses, housing units, in certain countries of Campania does not pay for water, and this is really scandalous. At Castel Volturno only 40 percent of the housing units pay the waste tax, the rest always pays Pantalone. And the cases could be multiple. I mention only the provision on the land of fires, which in these days is being discussed in the House and will come to us to the Senate. Even with this measure money will be sent, there will be compensatory forms for farmers who will no longer be able to cultivate the lands that will be considered polluted, we will have to send the army and we will have to do the health screening of those populations. Who's paying? NUGNES (M5S). The North that polluted! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Senator Nugnes, you know there's been no trucks coming from outside the region for years. You know that there are hundreds of illegal businesses: stockbrokers, shoemakers that produce lawlessness and throw their waste in the middle of the street. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). You know there are families that don't do separate collection and proper waste disposal. There are no companies working. We arrive with this bill that wants to modify the Single Text in the matter of construction (adopted by decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001), which rightly provides for the demolition if the buildings are built in the absence of a building permit or in total discrepancies. The appearance of the building pardon has been worn out. Initially it was intended to give the prefect the assessment of the measure to be implemented: discretion took over. The amendment, assessed in the Justice Commission, aims to include the priority criteria for the order of demolition. Well, on this measure the League has a disconcerted, disenchanted approach. Of course, this measure and the criteria laid down in it could be used by those who speculated, organized crime, instead of poor families and those citizens whose presence, Mr Sollo, we recognize as a high percentage. I would point out, however, that the poor people live in Campania, and not only in that region, with an abnormal and not insignificant percentage of cunning, ruffles, criminals, administrators and politicians unable and irresponsible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is a cultural problem that we denounce, as a North League. CUOMO (PD). It's a national problem. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). These disasters - by chance - almost always touch, indeed mainly, the Southern Regions, such as Campania, Sicily and Calabria. In recent days we have witnessed the scandal of waste in Rome and Lazio. We can't take it anymore. In Lombardy, the fiscal surplus says that, on average, every Lombard citizen gives the State - and never returns - almost 7,000 euros a year, while we record in Calabria and Sicily a reversal: every citizen withdraws from the State from 2,000 to 3,000 euros. I could cite many examples, such as the fact that, in the municipalities and provinces of the South, we find a number of employees from four to ten times higher than that of the employees of the municipalities and the provinces of the North, where everything works. In the end, even in this circumstance, as in what we will face in the next few days with the provision on the land of fires, Pantalone will always pay, that is the North, that is the families and the enterprises of the North. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u98	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u99	Madam President, we should actually thank the authors of this draft law, because if there is a North League - I do not know if you have ever wondered - there is a North problem, a North problem, which is the other side of the southern problem. But if we say that there are two Italies, the easy accusation that is being made is that we exaggerate, alter and inflate the truth and speculate. We must thank you, because in this House we - not what we carry can always be refuted - but you carry evidence, documents, acts and reports that make it clear that we live in two different countries. I repeat: we live in two different countries. It connects Cuomo, I open and close immediately a parenthesis: milk quotas, a phenomenon completely different from what we are talking about. We had to go down to the square and do everything you know to defend farmers who had to throw milk away in order not to take sanctions, and someone also took them. We happen to be talking about Campania: in Campania there were structures with milk quotas, but without cows. That was the problem of milk quotas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.Comments by Senator Cuomo]] Let me give you a small example, which will also ease the situation a little bit. The Val di Fiemme, which you probably know, having recently taken place there the Nordic Ski World Cup, is a pleasant tourist mountain area, a valley of Trentino. The climate in these periods is neither that of Palermo nor that of Naples; it is different. Citizens have always provided in time for the needs of winter, i.e. to heat their homes. A few years ago, the usual municipal administrations (of which I do not mention them) of that valley notified almost all citizens of the order for the demolition - heard - of the woodsheds. The woodsheds are small structures, mostly roofs, of the roofs, in which the peasant, mountain and farm world has always accumulated some wood for winter needs. According to the laws passed by this Parliament (right or wrong whether they are) the shed that covers a woodshed makes volume, and this therefore implies the need for the issue of a building licence; therefore, if the volumes and the regulatory plans do not allow it, the woodsheds cannot be built. Ergo, those built without a license, but not with the spirit of abuse, not with the will to violate the law, but according to the need to provide for the needs of the families, were still to be demolished. None of us has brought these cases to Parliament, even though they might have required further consideration. Now instead we read - and here we arrive at the two Italies - that there are 70,000 buildings, all in Campania, of which the abuse has been ascertained and for which a demolition order has been issued. But this is not exhaustive, because it is also said that the ongoing proceedings are more than triple, and so this figure represents about a third of the total, so we can think that the abusive buildings are more than 200,000. Let's go see what it is: hotels, tourist facilities, tourist villages, even some houses probably. In spanne, if we assume that a family lives in a house and that these 200,000 buildings are single-family homes, we could calculate that almost a million people live in abusive homes. But since they are not only single-family houses but are also residential houses and condominiums, we have to think that between the two and the three million inhabitants live in structures made completely abusively. Question that a fool living in the North who saw the woodshed demolished: 200,000 buildings? Three million people living in abusive homes? But in the South, in this case in Campania, do the municipalities exist? Are there mayors? Is there a municipal police on the ground? Are there ASLs? And the notaries, public officials, are breaking house sales contracts (because they sold themselves) without any kind of authority? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But here's the Italy that jumps! That Italy! That system! Is that 200,000 buildings? It is not an ant of which it can be said that it escaped, that it was not noticed, that it was made at night. Do we understand the size? Do we know what you're talking about? Are we gonna clean it up? We don't! We are a minority, and if the majority decide to heal they probably get well. However, I would like to make a small point, which is also addressed to those who decide to vote in favour of the measure. Have you read well all the criteria indicated by the bill? I repeat: have you read the criteria you are about to endorse? First of all, the buildings that constitute a danger will be demolished. I can tell. In the second line those not yet completed. I can tell, it's easy. In the third line, there are the buildings occupied and used for the carrying out of criminal activities. No, I'm sorry, but do we leave the criminals there for a few more years, until the time and the turn comes to dislodge them and counter them, not only the abuse, but also the criminal activity that happens within those real estate? But it's the festival of the absurd! If you want to give a gift to the party to which we belong, to the North League, it is fine: we discuss such measures every week, because it is a kind of wedding invitation for those who would struggle to put all these things in the streets without running the risk of being accused of exaggeration and political emphasis. You give us the tools and hand over the documents to respond to what you would like to do within this system. En passant, last week we had to protest that the government allowed the highway management companies to operate increases on our motorways, which were on average between 4% and 8%, with peaks of more than 10-11 percent. Do you want me to tell you where these increases have been made? On the highways of Padania. In the Centre and in the South were minimal: in the South, motorways completely charged to the community (not users). Do we think a system like this can go on for a long time? A chapter to be opened and closed immediately would be the one relating to the provision of services. From our parts you do not go to ask the connection of a user if you do not have a building license: only if you have the building license and the habitability are delivered light, gas and so on. That's how you defeat abuse. There are probably other rules in the South: ENEL is a national body, but it seems to operate with double standards. Mrs Stefani also said something else: but the municipalities of Campania, where the houses do not appear because they are abusive, since there are no buildings piled up, how do they provide services? Where do they go to get the resources, since one of the few certain revenues is the IMU, the unique tax on municipal buildings? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm done, Madam President. The trouble is that we have understood where we are going to get the resources, and so have the citizens of the North who voted for us for a long time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u100	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u103	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, the hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the President of OPAC is scheduled for tomorrow, before the Joint Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate, to report on which port of Italy the cargo will dock with cargoes of Syrian chemical weapons. According to international agreements reached by governments in various countries, including the United Kingdom and Germany, chemical weapons must be destroyed. Good. The types of storage and dismantling arrangements have been chosen. Good. We Italian citizens also have the right to know, in addition to this, also with what timing and where these weapons will be destroyed. Citizens would like to know whether a place has been established to store storage waste; whether all information on possible environmental damage has been taken and informed the municipalities, in order to give the citizens maximum information. Citizens have the right to know where and how the Italian Government intends to act and today, compared to tomorrow, it is already late, it is already too late. For weeks we have been asking for explanations; weeks that ask for commitments and protection and the 5 Star Movement makes itself spokesperson of this request from the citizens that from the Municipality of La Maddalena-Palau observe, without yet having clarity, displacements of cargo, ferries, TIR, from La Maddalena to the bunker of Guardia del Moro to Santo Stefano. They rightly ask for clear explanations, clear answers. With this we want to reiterate that emptying the bunker is certainly good if we have to return the island to the citizens, but the important thing is that this bunker is not filled with other amenities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u106	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, my fellow senators, what many called the supreme, Manlio Cerroni, king of the Lazio garbage, has finally fallen and with him much of the sand castle will now fail. It is time to bring out all the hidden secrets of the waste cycle and the management of Lazio landfills. It is necessary, indeed urgent, that the Government and this majority begin to really do something for the citizens, ordering without any hesitation that the hydrogeological characterization of all the landfills of the Lazio-Campania axis be carried out, but only as a proper beginning, because then it will be necessary to continue throughout the country. Do you remember Schiavone's words hidden for 20 years? We talked about everything, and the populations of the places where we landed will all die of cancer within twenty years. The process has already begun. You have this responsibility: do you really want to live with conscience this phenomenon that weighs on the lives of citizens in order to promote criminal organizations and economic powers? In recent months you have rejected all our initiatives on the protection of the environment, from the avoidance of incinerators to the excavation of holes where waste is disposed of. The latter too are now making journeys of hope: hope that they will be disposed of without risk to human health, something that now seems almost impossible, after this affair. I would like to inform this House that I have submitted urgent questioning 2-00108 so that at this point the Government will check all the landfills in Lazio. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u109	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to draw attention to the case of Marina's two rifles, Latorre and Girone, to highlight the interest in the issue of all of us - I hope - and not just in the press. After exactly 23 months, it seems that this affair has no intention of ending. Without wishing to enter into the substance of the issues inherent in the difficulties of this Government to mediate with the Indian authorities, I believe it is clear to everyone that the phase, perhaps understandable but not so effective, of diplomatic caution is over, and I have observed with interest the turn that the Government envoy wanted to make to his action in the face of the unacceptable lack of clarity and timeliness of India, and I am of the opinion that a solution is no longer different. I recently returned from a trip to South India and, although I could not meet in person our soldiers, who are in New Delhi, I had the opportunity to telephone with Ambassador Daniele Mancini and I gained the conviction that the Italian institutions must make themselves heard and seek those clear answers from the Indian authorities that for too long have been waiting for those directly concerned, their families and the whole country. There is a suspicion that political speculation and perhaps even economic interests that deserve to be exposed and combated are hidden behind the story on the eve of the elections in India. Our rifles are not pawns to move in a game of chess; I do not think it is right to endanger the existence of two people for political repositioning or for any kind of trafficking. For these reasons, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I renew the invitation to this Government to take action so that Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone can be guaranteed legal certainty and, in case their responsibility for the death of Indian fishermen is established, they can serve the sentence in their country. I would also like to point out that, once the most urgent issue has been resolved, we intend to clarify all aspects of this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u110	Of course, the Presidency supports this wish and stresses that an important initiative to support the Maroons is being developed by Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-167.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 16 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
