ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u4	I inform you that on 20 March 2014 the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, as referred to in the resolution of the Senate of 3 October 2013, were appointed. The list will be published in an annex to today's report. The Commission is convened to proceed with its constitution tomorrow, Wednesday 26 March, at 1.30 p.m., in the Chamber of the Third Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that yesterday the Presidency received a request, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss draft constitutional law No 1373, on the abolition of the Provinces, which was tabled on 11 March. Pursuant to the combined provisions of the fourth paragraph of Articles 72 of the Constitution and 44 of the Rules of Procedure, the request is inadmissible. I recall, in fact, that the aforementioned article of the Constitution prescribes the normal procedure for examining and approving draft laws in constitutional matters and that the examination in the referent of the same bill referred to above has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1212, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 965. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u7	Mr President, representative of the Government, my fellow senators, I do not think I say anything new by stressing that what comes to this House today is certainly not an ordinary measure. It is not because of its objective relevance, which, not too improperly, we could define constitutional, but also because of the degree of emblematicity that in its path has taken the choice to definitively exceed the provincial level as one of the levels of governance and political-elective articulation of our institutional system. Compared to the text delivered to us by the Chamber of Deputies, the draft law has been considerably reworked thanks to a work for which I thank all the Members of the Commission who, albeit with varying degrees of sharing of the spirit that animates this measure, have made the debate rich and useful to the many changes made. In particular, I would like to thank the Offices for their valuable contribution, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Pizzetti, to whom most of the amending work carried out in this area of Parliament is due. The bill in question, known to most under the name of the Undersecretary Delrio, comes to our attention and to our approval by anticipating other measures (the reform of the Senate, the new Title V of the Constitution, the electoral law) destined to change radically, not only the structure of our constitutional system, but also the same relationship between citizens, territories, democratic participation and institutions. We will be called - let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen - to perform precisely in the Senate and, perhaps, in spite of us, constituent functions, aware perhaps, as we said with some colleagues in recent days, of being dwarfs on the shoulders of the dwarfs compared to those Fathers who wrote our Charter of 1948, but obliged to respond to the deep solicitations that come from a period of crisis certainly not passing. Precisely from the crises, from moments of agitation and clashes, the constituent seasons have often been born, all the more fruitful the more able to put the ear on the ground and to interpret the anxieties of the future and the spaces of cooperation between different communities. That is why it is necessary today to try to rewrite the organisation of local authorities, because we believe that the crisis of democracy manifests itself in a worrying way precisely where the link between citizens and institutions should be stronger and more immediate. Let me say that the recent French administrative round gives us, not only an overall malaise of the electorate, which we have read in so many analyses these days, but also impressive creaks in the same predisposition to participation and direct commitment. As many as 64 municipalities have closed their electoral lists in France without mayor candidates. This fact, which we know to be a risk even in not a few realities of our country, must worry us because it is undeniable that the administrators of the small municipalities have always been the garrison of democracy but also of protection of the territory and good sociality. Many people have repeated to me the question, already heard by Mr Targetti in Constituente: "What harm have the Provinces done?"[], seeking a reason for what appears to be the main mission of this bill and what has seemed to some to be a bitterness of which the actual ability to generate savings for public administration is also sometimes contested. It must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of the abolition of the Provinces is not new. Already in the constituent phase there was a wide discussion on the best articulation of local authorities, with a view, in particular, to establishing the regions. In fact, it was noted in plenary that the Provinces were far from being merely artificial entities, as they had also been defined. Despite this, the debate on the real usefulness of the Provinces and the possible opportunity to suppress them did not cease and re-emerge constantly in republican history and then become a recurring theme especially in recent years. Today, although there is still some resistance and some scepticism, especially with regard to the actual savings that this rule will produce and that will be objectively judged only in a few years, however, we proceed to a first step towards the overcoming of this entity but with the willingness to regulate the Provinces - together with metropolitan cities and unions and mergers of Municipalities - in the more general intervention of reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. I would like to remind you briefly that the text proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consists of thirty articles, divided into six chapters, containing provisions on metropolitan cities, provinces, unions and mergers of municipalities. It was born from the bill no. 1212, of government initiative and already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, to which the bill No. 965, to the first signature of Senator Ghedini, related to the institution of the metropolitan cities and to the modalities of election of the mayor and the metropolitan council. With regard to the first aspect, and always waiting for the constitutional reform of Title V, article 2, paragraph 1, identifies, in the Regions with ordinary autonomy, the metropolitan cities of Turin, Milan, Venice, Genoa, Bologna, Florence, Naples, Bari and Reggio Calabria, specifying that the principles of this measure apply as principles of great economic and social reform for the discipline of metropolitan cities and areas that, in accordance with their respective statutes, are adopted by the Regions of Sardinia, Sicily and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. To these are added Rome Capital and the cities established, by means of regional laws already in force, by the aforementioned Regions with special autonomy. The bodies of the Metropolitan City are the Metropolitan Mayor and two assemblies presided over by the Mayor himself, the Metropolitan Council and the Metropolitan Conference. These bodies shall be governed by the metropolitan statute. Article 3 outlines the procedure for the first institution of the metropolitan cities, including Rome Capital, which are constituted, on the date of entry into force of this law, in the territory of the homonymous provinces. The Mayor of the Town Hall announces the elections for a Conference in charge of drafting a draft statute. The Conference, chaired by the Mayor of the Town Council and made up of a variable number of members, transmits the proposal for a statute to the metropolitan Council by 30 September 2014. The President of the Province and, free of charge, the Provincial Council, in office on the date of entry into force of the measures under consideration, remain in office until 31 December 2014 (a fact that we have innovated in the reflection of the Commission) and the President assumes until that date also the functions of the Council. The Provinces, defined as territorial authorities of wide area, are the subject of the provisions contained in Articles 11 to 17 of the draft law. In Article 11, in particular, the Commission intervened by specifying that the Provinces are governed by the measure under consideration pending the reform of Title V of the Constitution. The Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Valle d'Aosta Region are not invested in the new discipline; special forms of autonomy can be recognized to the Provinces by the Regions in matters of regional legislative competence. The organs of the Province are the President, the Provincial Council and the Assembly of Mayors. The new discipline resulting from the examination of the Commission provides that, in the first application of the measure, the Shareholders' Meeting for the election of the Provincial Council is convened by the President of the Province or by the commissioner by 30 September 2014, for the Provinces whose bodies expire by the end of the mandate in 2014, or, subsequently, within thirty days from the expiration for the end of the mandate, or from the decadence or early dissolution of the provincial bodies. Chapter V then lays down provisions on unions or mergers or incorporations of Municipalities. In Article 21, paragraph 2 announces Article 32 of the single text of the local authorities, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 267 of 2000. In particular, the Commission in its contact person has provided that the President of the Union of Municipalities shall make use, for specific functions, of the Secretary of a Municipality of the Union, without any greater burden of public finance, where the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies had only provided for the possibility. I would point out that Article 27a, which was introduced during the Commission's work, stipulates that the number of advisers and councillors in municipalities with a population of up to 3,000 may not exceed 10 and 2 respectively and that, in municipalities with a population of between 3,000 and 10,000 inhabitants, may not exceed 12 and 4. It also provides that the municipalities concerned by the provisions relating to the number of councillors and advisers shall re-determine the charges in order to ensure that they do not vary. The forecast, implemented by means of a news report in Article 46 of the single text, that neither of the sexes can be represented in the Junta to less than 40%, has been limited by the Commission to municipalities with a population of more than 3,000 inhabitants. A further amendment provides that the Mayors of Municipalities with a population of less than 3,000 inhabitants are allowed up to a maximum of three consecutive mandates, in derogation from the provisions of Article 51 of the single text on local authorities today. Finally, a novella is introduced to Decree-Law No. 138 of 2011. In particular, there is provision for incompatibility between parliamentary and government positions with any other monocratic public office, relating to governmental bodies of territorial public bodies having a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by highlighting only two aspects. The first is linked to the reform season that awaits us. As we said, this provision is not understood and cannot be thought separated from the overall reflection on the choices that we will be called to make on very delicate and decisive issues from here shortly. It is this context that makes it, at the same time, a rule capable of opening without delay a season of change without return and, at the same time, a transitional rule with respect to the framework to which we hope will shortly be brought back. However, this law - I want to say this - will work if we are all able to accompany it with an attention to the decisive details of each reforming season, perhaps with an ex post monitoring and evaluation that often are missing in our country. And this new broad-area governance will work, above all, if it will help municipalities and regions to fully recover their role, also as a renewed space of democracy and participation, according to a concern expressed by colleagues of the Mixed-SEL Group and the 5 Star Movement, but which, I am sure, is also deep in the other Groups, as well as in those who are talking to you. The second aspect concerns a word of clarity which we owe to Italian citizens when we proceed to exceed an administrative level on which, even improperly, the strays of public opinion have concentrated. We have the ambition to change the Provinces and redesign the governance of the vast area, not because we think, like some, that democracy and politics cost too much, but because we believe that the current structure requires a deep rethinking, with the aim of increasing the efficiency of the local administration and guaranteeing citizens always better rights and services, minimizing the waste of public resources. In this regard it should be stressed the need to adapt the different articulations of the State on the territory in the light of the new norms and the spirit that animates the overcoming of the provincial body as we have known it. Many colleagues in the Commission have mentioned this and we know that this issue remains sensitive and decisive for the real definition of a new organisation of real opportunities for rationalization and saving public resources. In conclusion, I believe that no one wants to deny the partiality and imperfections of this measure, all the greater than necessarily linked to the successive reforms that await us and that we have repeatedly recalled. By borrowing the words of a young constituent, I believe that today more than ever we are not called to guard the institutions, to preserve a simply reassuring order. It is up to us, I believe, to respond to the challenges of our time with the confidence of new times that also require new imagination in redesigning the common home, in the certainty that we are in time to change, safeguard and give new forms to those values that seventy years ago were placed at the foundation of our State. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u8	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. Senator Endrizzi asked to speak to you. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in question would like to combine a reduction in the costs of politics with a more efficient and transparent institutional system, but we know that it stems from the need to protect the institutional mess caused by the Monti Government, with a reform that has been severely rejected by the Constitutional Court. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I understand that colleagues may have a different view of the importance of what I am saying, but I would at least like to be able to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u10	Senator Endrizzi, approach the microphone, so his voice resounds harder and covers the buzz in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u11	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I was expecting a different speech from you. Anyway, thank you. Well, this bill should therefore enter into force before the next local elections, in order to avoid the extension of the county administration. This is a mere necessity of the Government's image; the stated objectives, in fact, do not seem to be effectively pursued by the text. Without prejudice to the rather vague part of the merger and incorporation of Municipalities, the text operates a complicated framework of structures and competences in explicit expectation of the approval of a constitutional bill for the elimination of the Provinces: the only act capable of restoring order, effectiveness and efficiency in the administration of these entities, or abolishing them. As it emerged during the debate held in the House and the Senate, disputes are already announced, additional expenditure on public finance. The confusion (it is not our definition), the proliferation and the ordinamental hypertrophy, likely to produce costs and to feed the litigation, in addition to the set of procedures indicated that would be poorly reconciled, for the duration and complexity, with the provisional organizational design pursued by the measure. The reorganization, simplification and rationalization of the territorial units of the Republic constitute, instead, an indisputable and necessary reform in order to remove the administrative "jungle" and to reduce the costs of the policy deriving from the existence of too many levels of government and, above all, from the proliferation of innumerable functional entities with a different territorial base, from which it results a interweaving, when not an obstacle, and an overlap of competences as well as functions, which weigh down the administrative decision. The disordered overlapping of attempts to reform the system of autonomy, of which the measure in title is only the last in order of time, leaves disoriented with regard to the institutional chaos that is emerging. The attempts to reorder territory carried out so far have proved to be clumsy and sudden, children of an "emergential" perspective (this does not escape), unsupported at the constitutional level and, likewise, the ordinary provision in title is not immune from critical profiles of illegality, obvious or latent, that put at risk the estate or risk to determine, once again, the rejection by the Consulta: this would really be a shame for all of us. The judgment of 3 July 2013, n. 220, declared the illegality of paragraphs 4, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 20- bis of Article 23 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 and Articles 17 and 18 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012. The judgment founds the pronunciation of illegality on the consideration that the instrument of the decree-law, configured by Article 77 of the Constitution as an act intended to deal with extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, is not usable to carry out an organic and system reform such as that provided for by the norms censored. Today we are in a hurry again. For the Court it is clear that the norms censored have a considerable effect on the powers of the Provinces, on the methods of election of directors, on the composition of the governing bodies and on the relations of the aforementioned entities with the Municipalities and with the same Regions. It is an overall reform of a part of the system of local autonomy, destined to affect the entire structure of the exponential bodies of the territorial communities, incompatible, on the logical and legal level, with the constitutional dictation, being a radical transformation of the entire system, on which a debate in political and doctrinal fora has long been opened and which certainly does not arise, in its entirety and complexity, from a case of extraordinary necessity and urgency. The confused and complicated architecture of the draft law No 1212 under consideration is therefore likely to jeopardise the same minimal objective of not renewing the provincial bodies already in the Commission. The path to effective and incisive reform is therefore inescapable, and the Constitutional Court itself has clearly indicated it: a constitutional bill must be approved. In this regard, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement has deposited the draft Constitutional Law n. 1373, to the Senate, and n. 939, to the Chamber, amending Articles 114, 117, 118, 119, 120, 132 and 133 of the Constitution, in the matter of the abolition of the Provinces, and provisions for the allocation of the resources made available for the financing of works for the safety of school buildings, assuming that nothing can more reasonably hinder the abolition of the provincial territorial agency. We have reached the word "fine", but we must write it in the right way! Its functions could well be entrusted to the other territorial and administrative departments of the Republic, as they are substantially limited. Against this, it is not peregrinous to recall a series of data related to the costs: the total expenditure managed by the Provinces came, in 2006, to 13 billion euros and is now estimated between 16 and 17 billion euros (in 2006 the debts of the Provinces amounted to 2 billion euros); every Italian spends for them on average about 216 euros per year. This does not mean that their abolition would achieve a saving of equal measure, nor is it given, against data and very discordant results, to have a definitive picture, but abolishing these institutions will certainly save the costs of the allowances of the elected, estimated by the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI) in about 113 million euros (data for all 2010). At this cost must be added the savings resulting from the consequent elimination of the structures that rotate around each elected (there were about 29,000 elected in 2010): we talk about offices, staff, cars. In fact, the only item in the allowance is not sufficient to fully quantify the cost of the elected persons, who receive additional allowances, in the first place the reimbursement of expenses for the exercise of the mandate. Province staff is estimated at about 61,000, representing about 18 percent of the costs of the Province sector. This cost is of course unbearable but in part this staff could be used in other administrations, especially those in constant shortage of staff (tribunals, penitentiary administration, schools). The number of provinces has grown, in the course of republican history, at a dizzying pace: there were 92 in 1960 and increased to 110 in 2005, with a huge increase in new entities in 1992 and a further increase in 2003-2005; yet, many of the senators of the 5 Star Movement were children when they were already talking about the abolition of the Provinces. From a comparative point of view, none of the countries similar to ours is structured by Provinces: in France, the Departments have a similar dimension to the Provinces but are located between Municipalities and the State; in Germany, the only realities under the federal state are the Länder and the Municipalities; in Great Britain, the Counties are technical-administrative and not political. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please come to the conclusion, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, it is not much longer; be patient, it has also been difficult for me to be able to concentrate in this climate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right, please, I just wanted to give you the time. ENDRIZZI (M5S). This bill does not delete the Provinces, on the contrary it transforms them into second-level entities and removes them from the popular will of the citizens. The constitutional abolition of the Provinces - which has long been advanced also by a proposal for a constitutional law of popular initiative - is the only tool to redesign the essential components of the framework of the local authorities' order, in order to deal consistently with issues destined to last over time and to meet long-term social and institutional needs, according to the lines of development of the constitutional principles in the implementation process outlined by the state legislature and integrated by the regional ones. These are rules of order that cannot be conditioned by contingency, instead having to provide without delay the entire legal discipline of the territorial authorities, in consistency, on the logical and legal level, with the constitutional dictation. In view, therefore, of the unreasonableness inherent in the draft law in question, which is attributable, as is known, to the violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, it is requested not to proceed with the examination of Act No. 1212. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u12	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the question raised by the 5 Star Movement Group, as far as we are concerned, must be considered, so it must be submitted to the reflection of all, especially in the part where it indicates how the Government has proceeded with this bill, even after the failed attempt through the instrument of the decree, on which the Constitutional Court itself has pronounced itself clearly: in our opinion the Government has moved in an absolutely incongruous way. The result of this way of intervening in order to reorder is, in our opinion, such as to create a situation of further confusion, and will feed - on this we absolutely agree - litigation. The procedure that has been chosen is, in our opinion, totally unsatisfying and incongruous. It was decided to proceed by not taking the matter out of hand with the main instrument which, as far as the Provinces are concerned, can only be the constitutional bill, and we went to a reorder that apparently had the purpose of simplification and rationalization, but the final result in our opinion is very questionable. We will be faced - as we will also see in the more accurate examination of the text - with a series of inconsistencies, a very heavy interweaving of overlaps of competences, confusion and addition of other organisms: it is exactly the opposite of what was to be the main aim of the reorganization, which was also the rationalization of competences. I would like to make it clear that this measure will certainly not abolish the Provinces, but only and only the election system, and this is a constitutionally protected value. We believe that we cannot intervene with an ordinary bill on a matter of constitutional importance. In this way it will produce the only effect of maintaining the Provinces, adding also the union of Municipalities. In fact, in the most complete confusion, all the bodies, with attached and connected, and the only thing that will be abolished will be the direct elections by the citizens. With this measure, both with regard to the Metropolitan City and with regard to the Province, an entity of wide area, we are faced with second-level elections. This is a tendency that we are beginning to find very disturbing, because the same reasoning is made with regard to the future of the Senate, with the subtraction of bodies and bodies to the election, and therefore to the control of citizens, and their transformation into second level subjects. The purpose was to save money, but I think this measure will bring everything but savings. The only thing that gets hurt is the democratic system, while from the cost point of view I think we will find ourselves faced with bitter surprises: if not an increase in costs, we will still have a proliferation, since we will have an additional institution, which is the regulated and settled union of Municipalities. This is a subject of great constitutional importance in our view, which justifies the question referred to us. In the question referred for a preliminary ruling, for which we shall be voting, there are figures which do not add up. Even the number that is indicated by about 29,000 elected is not correct, because the average of the elected - I remember that only the larger Provinces had 45 advisers - is 30 on the whole Provinces. Therefore, we speak at most of 3,500 elected and certainly not of 29,000. But, without prejudice to this inaccuracy of the data, our vote will be in favour, sharing the suggestion of the preliminary ruling. I repeat: the measure under consideration is a confused measure that enters into the territorial order without simplifying or rationalizing; it harms a constitutionally protected position and, precisely because the Provinces are included within the Constitution, this is not possible; in fact, it affects only the principle of election by universal suffrage, direct election. The main road to follow was that of the constitutional bill, but he did not want to take it. Even now - it has been discussed again this morning in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - we are in time to put aside this bill and therefore to address the main issue, namely the examination of the constitutional bill in the matter of Provinces, taking of the measure only those parts that can be considered transitional rules. On the other hand, it has taken exactly the opposite course: transitional rules have been made which will only lead to confusion and will, above all, affirm the principle that, in this country, a principle of fundamental democracy is increasingly being violated, that of the elections of the bodies of representation and government that, at this point, I no longer understand who they should be accountable to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u16	I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Endrizzi and other senators for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u17	Mr President, this is yet another gigantic Italian anomaly, yet another unimaginable measure, perhaps unconstitutional, which will certainly increase confusion and inefficiency, and which, as the Court of Auditors has already denounced, will increase the costs of management. It is the now known game of prestige with words, deprived of meaning. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u18	Excuse me, Senator Nugnes, if I interrupt you, but we need to hear what there is to say differently in this House. Can we hear what you're saying? Senator Nugnes, please continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u19	I'm gonna pick it up or I'm gonna start over, you're gonna have to excuse me...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u20	If you can resume, I would ask you to resume. I'll get you some time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u21	NUGNES (M5S). It is the now known game of prestige with the private words of meaning. It even seems difficult to answer simple questions such as: Are you in favour of the metropolitan city? What, Delrio's? We must always specify, we must explain ourselves, we must distinguish ourselves. Traps: Italian legislation only creates traps for mice. Like this: "Are you against the abolition of the IMU for the first house?" "No, I'm against the recapitalisation of Bankitalia. It's a tough one. The Metropolitan Cities of Delrio are "supercapoluoghi" with special powers to govern complex and densely populated urban territories. A new entity that is not found in Europe. It is enough to start with the number: ten in the bill of the Led Government; they become eighteen in the House, and then twenty. Just as it was with the Provinces, a cancerous organism that continues to grow in an uncontrollable way, due to the greed of some and not for actual urban and territorial needs. In Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, the Netherlands and Austria, with 280 million inhabitants and 110 large urban areas, there are only ten metropolitan governments, half of which Italy wants to create with a population almost five times lower. What is our urban enthusiasm due to? To a mature and shared urban debate, to a well-established idea of community? A push from the bottom of territorial needs? Or rather the fact that the European Union has just activated specific funding for metropolitan areas? A new bone to be sprinkled, thrown to the municipalities with drooling to the mouth, dogs hungry by the spending review. How are you trying to do with the National Parks, President: throw a bone at them, right? International organisations consider metropolitan areas to be those with certain physical and demographic dimensions, high population density, concentration of productive activities and, above all, close interdependence between central and hinterland. In the research of the Censis it is evident that the Italian debate has assumed a connotation of absolute specificity, which is not reflected in Europe. No other country, President, imposes a unique model from above, because it does not work. "Never are specific metropolitan entities established, but they are the needs of the territories that produce solutions of government, according to a mixture of historical reasons, administrative arrangements, shared choices and progressively matured. Madrid, Vienna and some German Länder have privileged status with legislative functions; in Barcelona, the basic bodies cooperate; London is a unicum with directly elected mayor and assembly; in Paris after decades of debate from the bottom of the line, only three metropolitan cities were established. In Italy, Censis writes, "the demographic dimensions are missing, there is no local debate, there is no feeling." After decades of masters in their own home, of impoverishment of the community, of territorial devastation, of abusive constructions and abusive lotteries, the cultural debate, the feeling, in Italy is zero. The mirage of European funds also makes metropolitan cities that according to international standards are not, like Reggio Calabria, to which were added then Salerno, Brescia and Bergamo; then again Palermo, Trieste and Cagliari (they are capitals of Regions with special statutes, must be protected); then a couple between Padua, Vicenza, Verona and Treviso (which together make more than 1.5 million inhabitants); finally Messina and Catania (the regional law to Special Statute has already provided them, how to exclude them?). And it's 20. It will be said: little bad, since the corresponding Provinces are abolished. False, because if three municipalities do not want to submit to the metropolitan cities, they have the right to fall off, making the Provinces relive. Juries, economists and the Court of Auditors in the hearings have pointed out doubts and criticalities. The logic should have been simplification and saving, instead we have multiplication of institutions and institutional conflicts: an Italian mess. Of course, we do not want to maintain the status quo; we want to abolish the Provinces and, if possible, open a real debate from below on European-style metropolitan cities, if cultural conditions are to be created, first of all. However, things must be done with intellectual honesty, first of all by abolishing the Provinces by constitutional law, otherwise the only sure result is that they will do harm and increase the costs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u22	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u23	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a draft law of government initiative of the previous Government which aims to review the administrative structure of the Republic in depth. It is expected that nine metropolitan cities will be set up, that the powers of the Provinces will be changed, that they will intervene on Roma Capitale and, finally, that they will legislate on the unions, mergers and incorporations of municipalities. These are very complex issues dealt with in as many as 30 articles with rather unsatisfactory results. With regard to the creation of the metropolitan cities, the ratio of this choice escapes. Eight metropolitan cities were created immediately, in 2014, plus one later, Reggio Calabria, who knows why. It seems that these metropolitan cities have skills and functions that are partly in line with those of the present Provinces. Wouldn't it have been easier to integrate the current functions of the Provinces for these more populous areas of the country or with special needs? As I said, the ratio of this choice is not clear. There is no objective criterion, of course, to identify these new nine metropolitan cities. It is certainly not the population, the criterion, because, in Veneto, the Provinces of Verona and Treviso are more populous than Venice, but the latter will become Metropolitan City. The same applies to other neighbouring provinces, such as Bergamo, in nearby Lombardy, which is more populous than Venice. Evidently you are playing a bit with words and, therefore, some Provinces will simply change name and they will be called Metropolitan Cities, generating confusion in who, living in a small municipality included in one of these future Metropolitan Cities, will find himself part of a city. You're gonna have a hard time figuring that out. All this, as stated in article 2, paragraph 1, of the text arrived by the Commission, is waiting for the constitutional reform of Title V of the Constitution. In short, we make a rule waiting for another rule, it is also said clearly. I wonder: if then the future norm is not done, will this still be worth, since it is done waiting for another norm? It's a doubt I have left. The bill also deals with the Provinces. In article 17, paragraph 7, it is expected that, in the future (within three months of the date of entry into force of this law), the State and Regions will identify in a timely manner, by agreement established in a unified Conference (and after hearing the most representative trade union organizations), the functions subject of the reorder referred to in paragraph 5 and their competences. I wonder why this reordering of functions does not already take place in this bill. If we are discussing a measure in this regard, then we must be concerned about sharing powers and functions. I also wonder why the Union of Italian Provinces (UPI) is not involved in the forthcoming unified conference? It is not a provocation, because I think it is reasonable to recover the experience and opinion of the current Presidents of the Province. The present bill also aims to promote the union, fusion and incorporation of small municipalities. These possibilities correspond to urgent needs. The small Italian municipalities are almost 2,000 and there live little more than 1.1 million Italians. They are often small mountain municipalities at risk of depopulation, although the quality of life is generally high. The small, sometimes microscopic, dimension of these municipalities, however, often does not allow to give adequate answers to the needs of its citizens, or this happens only thanks to the self-denial of the Mayors and the municipal administrations. As you know, for example, the first citizen is ultimately responsible for the health of his fellow citizens. With reduced budgets and few facilities, how can proper health surveillance be ensured? Another example of the importance of the mayor's role and his consequent economic needs is the custody of minors that the courts assign to a municipal administration in charge of the mayor. I quote a concrete case: recently the Mayor of the Municipality of Santa Cristina and Bissone, a small town in the province of Pavia, reported to me the case of nine minors that the court of Pavia assigned to its Municipality. Well, this trust costs about EUR 100,000 a year and almost completely absorbs the budget chapter of social spending. Probably the citizens of that small town, for this unexpected and unpredictable obligation, will have to give up other services such as the school bus. Probably a municipal reality with a larger budget could ensure easier management of these situations. The need to share economic and human resources is therefore real and urgent. This draft law, as regards the merger and incorporation of small municipalities, refers to the regions to identify the appropriate measures for this purpose, as set out in Article 27. But why refer to the Regions when it can be done directly in this bill? I mean, it's too little, way too little. I therefore conclude with a general consideration: in these actions of new institutional architecture, how are citizens involved? Nothing is said about a possible public consultation or, at least, a serious information campaign among citizens. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sibilia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u25	Mr President, fellow senators, government representatives, if they listen to me...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u26	Look, if you talk, maybe the goodness of your arguments will call attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u27	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). The abolition of the Provinces will not solve the evils of Italian politics. I have already expressed my thoughts in the past, also because, having been President of the Province, I know the matter closely. The measure under consideration is an incorrect measure in substance and method. I defend the role and function of the Provinces, not only as a bulwark of identity, but also as a vehicle to offer rapid responses to the needs of citizens. The abolition of these institutions or the transformation into second level institutions is an act not only unconstitutional, since it goes to drastically modify the organization of the State sanctioned by the Constitution, but anti-democratic, anti-historical and anti-social. The Provinces historically play an important role in the service of the community. As I said, as President of the Province I have been a direct witness to the role, importance and great results that can be achieved through careful and social administration, even in areas not of specific competence. It is true: the economic situation we are going through is what it is, but giving a sponge to what exists and works today, without knowing what will happen in the future, appears more and more a leap into the void. Demagogy, as usual, is the mistress. The Provinces, together with the Municipalities, are the bodies entrusted with the care of the local communities, privileged places of participation and democratic representation of the popular authorities. The Provinces themselves cannot be considered as the scapegoat for the evils of the Republic, for the resolution of the problems of the political costs. It is clear that a level of intermediate governance of programming and direction is useful. As often happens, an announcement is made without any concrete knowledge of what will be the implementation modalities. Now there are the Provinces, tomorrow the SuperComuni will be born, it seems with new bodies to elect and new competences to redistribute. Everything must be changed so that nothing really changes, with the announced savings that are all to be verified. Each territory has its precise characteristics and its peculiarities. Where there are large metropolitan areas, as in large cities, abolishing the Provinces may have a reason, but in different territories by vocation and characteristics, as it is for most of Italy, all this seems demagogic and dangerous and, above all, goes in the opposite direction to what citizens and businesses ask. Those who work need references, coordination of actions. This role has been very well played by the Provinces so far, representing a real solidarity for businesses and citizens. To think of a long path that leads to consultation to the Region for contingent problems appears a dangerous road, at a time like this when the answers must be ever faster and more immediate. A research by CENSIS, a socio-economic research institute, also claims that the Provinces are more appropriate institutions to give identity and governance to the vast area. To refer to the Province to which I belong, the Province of Avellino, imagine our agriculture managed one tomorrow only by the Campania Region. Public transport, employment centres and the environment are competences that can hardly be transferred tout court to the regions or municipalities, which would not even have enough organisation to manage them. Actually, I would abolish the Regions and leave the Provinces. The concept of Region, at times, is too broad, in the sense that there are large regions with very different problems and characteristics of the territory. There are regions, for example Veneto, ranging from requests for structures for sea tourism to special measures for the danger of avalanches in the mountains. One institution cannot reconcile everything. Italy really needs to reduce waste, but it cannot be allowed that from this need comes a constitutional ruin useful only for the electoral slogans and for the front pages of the newspapers. If the government's objective is to reduce costs, it is good to remember that the cost of the Provinces amounts to little more than 1% of national public expenditure and that, moreover, this measure would effectively cancel only the expenses of the political representation, quantifiable in about 200 million euros per year. Staff costs will remain unchanged, but they will be redistributed between regional and municipal offices. Added to all this is another fact, not economic but of equal importance: to cancel a garrison of democracy, to cancel a level of representation, to cancel a territorial reference for citizens means to be deaf to the need for listening that comes from the communities. All this only gives less certainty to companies and to those who work, removing points of reference. This measure will create an administrative and institutional vacuum, and this is a cost to citizens and businesses. In a historical moment when politics is increasingly in the hands of the nominations one chooses to eliminate one of the last, by now few, democratic bulwarks remained in support of the administrative machine of our country. This is why there is a need for confirmation of the election of the President of the Provincial Council, possibly also considering the posts strictly free of charge. It is paradoxical that we are talking about the abolition of the Provinces and we are not talking about consortia, park bodies and mountain communities. Administrators, with the support of civil society, need to come together to re-launch the real needs of the communities on the political table. To make this happen, it is essential to start from listening, from the vocations of the territories, from local products. For many reasons it is good that the ownership of so many actions is entrusted, as already mentioned, to institutions elected and controlled by citizens who look to the entire territory of destination. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I believe that a revision and reorganization of the intermediate body is necessary, including by reducing the number of advisers and members of the Junta, but by direct election, as I said before, of the President and of the Provincial Council, even without any remuneration. It is certainly desirable to maintain certain functions, with the necessary corrective measures to be taken, as, moreover, the whole apparatus of public administration must be revised. At this moment, there is a real risk of being deceived by a demagogic climate that sees in the Provinces the scapegoat to be struck to satisfy a public opinion that calls for a more efficient, less bureaucratic and above all less expensive state apparatus. This is a legitimate demand, to which politics is called to give answers, but without deceiving citizens with useless palliatives destined, in the future, to prove worse than evil. Public opinion must be well informed, because - I am sure - the path on which the government has set out will lead to mistakes that will prove dramatic for our communities. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by hoping that these considerations can make the Government reflect in order to avoid posthumous repentances which will then be of no use. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u28	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind the Undersecretaries that the question referred for a preliminary ruling did not pass by just three votes, so we are waiting for you on this measure. The measure that we are preparing to treat today, containing provisions on metropolitan cities, provinces, unions and mergers of Municipalities (the so-called Delrio decree), in our opinion will be remembered in the history of our country as one of the most delirious acts: a real delusion. In psychopathology, delirium is a state of mental alteration that consists of an erroneous interpretation of reality. From the Monti Government, passing through the Letta Government, to reach its Government, President Renzi, there is a subtle red line that unites you: three governments without popular legitimacy, which find themselves in an erroneous interpretation of reality (precisely, delirium). From the beginning, we of the North League opposed this measure: we have made it strong of the experience that distinguishes our movement, that is, the presence of many fellow administrators, always seated inside the Senate, as in the Chamber of Deputies, aware that this act will be the tomb of the autonomy. The UPI, the Union of the Provinces of Italy, at the mouth of its president Antonio Saitta, had extremely critical words about the measure, and Saitta is not of the North League and not even of the 5 Star Movement, but is of the left and - I believe - also geographically Renziano (I would not like to be mistaken). If the reform of the Provinces is to be addressed within the overall reform of Title V of the Constitution, what is the point now of shifting functions, personnel, assets, debts and resources, and then, in a few months, of changing everything again? What's the point? President Renzi delivered a programmatic speech in the Senate that focuses on essential issues that foretell a protagonism of the local authorities: from school building to the relaunch of local investments. How? Emptying the Provinces and Municipalities of the functions they perform, in most cases, efficiently? You are propaganda a provision through the falsehood of rationalization and savings. But what savings? So far you have only created institutional chaos and, as far as savings are concerned, pitch darkness. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The data says they're incontrovertible. What's the point? You're the only ones who believe it. After the decision of the Constitutional Court, in a normal country, not ours, the propaganda tones were perhaps to be abandoned: but no. In our view, you are taking away dignity from an institution and all those in this institution who work every day to ensure services and rights for citizens. That's what you're doing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There are local realities, Provinces and Municipalities, which shine for efficiency. For years they have planned and implemented that virtuous process that all citizens ask for: more services with lower costs. That's what they've done over the years. And they did it in difficult territorial realities, and even complex ones. Like my Province, Mr President, as vast as the Valle d'Aosta (although it is a province), and moreover, with Belluno (the same of the undersecretary Bressa), the only one in the whole country entirely mountainous. And I guarantee you my Province works well, very well. I would like to address Minister Delrio, who, precisely in his pastoral visit to my Province, touched with hand on how much this provision is not accepted: it is not accepted by the institutions, it is not accepted by the categories, as well as by the unions and citizens. I mean, the vast majority of people don't want this change. Campanalism? Of course not. People aren't as stupid as you think they are. He doesn't want to leave for the uncertainty. That's the truth. But then, I wonder, what is animated by your Government, President Renzi, to undertake this battle, which will not produce the many benefits that you claim? Perhaps the same goal that unites your Government with the illegitimate governments that preceded it (the Monti Government and the Letta Government). I'll explain. We all agree on one thing in this House. One of the best reforms in our country is the one that has sanctioned the direct election of the Mayor, as well as that of the President of the Province. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Citizens freely and democratically choose the people from whom they want to be administered. If we were to ask our citizens today to return to a system that does not provide for the direct election of its representatives, I believe that the answer would be obvious. Forget it, it's okay. Forget it, and don't touch anything. That would be the answer of our citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] They may recall, in fact, the comedians they had to attend when the Mayor was chosen in another way; or perhaps they remember the way in which the Presidents of the mountain communities are still chosen today. And we all know how many comedians we've seen and continue to watch. I do not think anyone can object to this. No, you don't. What do you propose to the Italians? The second level provinces. This is the worrying political fact: you propose that local autonomy be dismembered and that citizens also be deprived of the right to choose their own representatives. So much for democracy! This is your democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is precisely what your Government, President Renzi, shares with those of Monti and Letta. In addition to the commonality due to the fact that no one has voted for you, behind all this there is a very clear plan, started by Monti and which continues in this Government: to give more power to the central government, reducing the local autonomy to a marginal role. That's your thought. And we know who inspires this thought. Europe inspires your thoughts, not Europe founded on peoples, but that of bankers and your mistress, Frau Merkel, your mistress. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But let me make one thing clear: it brings out a bad air for you in Europe, and we are only at the beginning. Your Europe, that of the bankers and bureaucrats, that imposes the cancellation of the Provinces, is doomed to fail, just as it is destined to fail your government, centralist, enemy of the territories and subject of Europe. That's the truth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Blundo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thought I think is right to make is to remember that we are still a parliamentary Republic and that governments are formed on the basis of popular elections in Parliament, with the confidence of the House and the Senate. This means that any claim to consider the Renzi Government to be unconstitutional today, like the Led Government before, is a license that those who love institutions and respect the Constitution should not take at all. The problem that led to the reform of the Provinces is that of a system that does not work and that has not worked. If we want to be in the relationship between Provinces and Municipalities, we cannot fail to note that that system was not set up and did not function properly, that is to say in such a way as to guarantee the exercise of the competences - especially provincial ones - with that efficiency and the autonomy that would legitimize the intermediate agency. We have witnessed - it is history - the provinces of the provincial capital: I believe that on the level of concrete experience this is what makes absolutely plausible the attempt to begin to change the system and justifies it. Certainly the complete replacement of the system requires a reflection also on the role of the Regions: one cannot think of modifying the system of local autonomy without a strong reflection that embraces the Regions and the Municipalities. A strong reflection is needed because it is clear that, if we want to analyse the issue of the efficiency of the system, its decision-making capacity and the effectiveness of decisions in relation to the socio-economic reality, we cannot help but address the problem of a regional system that today appears inadequate in relation to the socio-economic problems and the response that must be given and that in many areas cannot be more sectoralized according to the system of our twenty regions. In this area, then, what profile does this bill have to emphasize? Meanwhile, it implements the metropolitan cities, which have been in the system for twenty-four years. It is an amendment included in the Constitution, which had remained on paper and which, on the other hand, needs to be implemented because, from this point of view, the Metropolitan City arose in its intentions mainly to meet the need to give a guide to socio-economic areas that crossed the boundaries of the single municipality. They therefore called for a single government to respond better to the demands of socio-economic problems on the part of citizens and therefore to have those wider area responses, which have become increasingly apparent and needed by the efficiency of the same system. From this point of view there is also an inevitable reflection on the Provinces, linked to the fact that the system must be efficient. Moreover, there is a problem of size, perimeter and integration between the different Provinces; this has led, in more reality, to hypothesize aggregations of wide area, also interregional, precisely because conditions of synergy have been manifested, from the point of view of the economic dynamics, which required to go beyond the dimension of the Provinces and the Regions. On the other hand, the problem of restoring order to the system of competences within the system of local autonomy was in many ways to the attention not only of administrators, but also of political scientists and constitutionalists. It was a matter of giving back an order and rationalization to the system of functions, on the basis of which a reorganization of the system of autonomy was envisaged. In fact, there is too much confusion between management functions and functions of active administration; it is necessary to redistribute power centres in a balanced way, attributing clear and unconfused roles. This can restore that balance in the relations between the various local authorities that have failed, jamming the whole system. In this respect, I believe that the bill that we are about to approve gives a positive indication, because it clearly streamlines the competences of the intermediate body and provides for a restriction on specific competences that can really make the future body of the vast area central. We are faced with a passage that determines the start of the process of reform of our country, through an ordinary bill. Certainly it would have been better if we had started from the constitutional bill, but, as has already emerged in this debate and in the work carried out in the first permanent Commission, the process of deliberation of the constitutional bill on the reform of the Provinces will be accelerated. This will allow us to initiate that indispensable reflection for a definitive reorganization of the system of local autonomy, which will have to concern Regions and Municipalities and will have to lead to the identification of an intermediate entity, which will be left - I hope - in the competence of the Regions; it will have to be a functional body to the needs of the government of the territory and not predetermined on rigid perimeters, which were justified in a context different from the current one. I believe that from this point of view - although the path of the bill is complex and no one can hide the many perplexities, the many objections and the critical considerations that exist with regard to this approach - this is a draft law which, with a view to a transitional discipline compared to a constitutional reform bill, has the function of starting the process of reforming the system of local self-governments. This reform process is absolutely indispensable and will have to find its main source of legitimacy in the reform of Title V of the Constitution, but I would like to say not only in the reform of the legislative competences of State and Regions, but also in a deep reflection on the role of the Regions and the Municipalities, in a framework that also takes into account the need to overcome the municipal division. In this respect, the draft law introduces the recognition of the union of Municipalities as a local authority: this is an important fact, but it is not enough, because it is increasingly evident that if you want to exercise the functions of local self-government in a timely and effective way, you cannot fail to take into account, for example, the fact that by now a town-sized regulatory plan is absolutely outdated and does not allow the proper protection of the use of the territory, because the dimensions are necessarily much larger and therefore it is necessary to find decision-making centres that have a wider perspective. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u32	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u33	Mr President, Senators, Senators, this affair has begun badly, indeed very badly. Everyone has recalled the claim, during the Monti Government, to address with a decree-law straightforwardly institutional questions of constitutional prediction; but what makes us say that the concerns are great, colleagues, is undoubtedly the fact that you run the risk of continuing in a worse way. The Constitutional Court has spoken very clearly: its prescriptions, as well as those relating to other sensitive topics, such as the electoral law, must represent a kind of polar star, on the basis of which to move, with reference to the corrections of merit and method and the instruments to be used. Otherwise something terrible would happen, to damage already caused (in fact you have already caused damage, because the decree then unconstitutional result has set in motion a mechanism, with the risk therefore that in many Provinces it will be triggered precisely by that decree the electoral call): if to those negative effects you respond with the confusion on these very delicate issues, which concern the living conditions of millions of citizens, women and men, in terms of services and their quality, to another damage follows. 16.30 p.m. (continued CERVELLINI) It was said (so I listened): The dwarfs on the shoulders of the dwarfs. If these dwarves claim to cancel the work of the giants of our Republic, we know the path that is being taken, but we do not know where it leads, and what the risks are in not answering simple questions, to which a legislator proposing such a path is indispensably bound. Are the Provinces staying or not? Because this is not clear, and it is well known that it is not clear to the presenters and to those who support this measure either. Another question: is democracy alone affected and bureaucracy remains and costs and inefficiency goes out of control, becomes ordinary? This seems to me to be the red thread linking the measure under discussion. You make the most disparate statements, like: "Do the elect perceive too much? Well, let's give them less, give them half. Isn't that enough? Let's move on. This is why no constitutional bill must be drawn up. No, this law won't work. The risk is not when it is said that you throw dirty water and child; here you risk doing the miracle: the water remains dirty and, unfortunately, throw the child. The vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred back to committee, and on this I really call on everyone to give an additional thought. If that's not enough, if you think it's not enough to set a stop sign on the road you've taken, well, then listen to what's being said; listen - and you're not doing it - to what's being said. There is a need for a constitutional bill on issues such as these, which touch the nerves and on which a state is based; these are issues that must be thought and on which a reflection must be developed that listens to the country in its depth. Of course, everything can be changed, provided that, when it comes to these issues, that is, the institutional scaffolding on which a country is based, it is done with an indispensable harmony, which must be equally clear on the issues that pertain to a rational, clear reorder, and that can therefore lead to answer: "Yes, we want to overcome, abolish the Provinces within a rational design, not keeping the scaffolding perhaps bureaucratic and hitting only democracy, not changing only name to things, which are now called metropolitan cities." The metropolis is a complex reality on which they have been made, written and said important things; it is not baptized as it can be done with a child or a child: I'll call you a metropolis. No, it must respond to economies of scale, to a critical mass, without which we can also call them Metropolitan Cities but such are not and will not be, and they will determine expectations that they will be banging. You do not have a vision, which is indispensable compared to a harmonic reorder. It has been said of Regions, of Municipalities. Sometimes in an insufficient way the Provinces have had to supplement in complex areas, perhaps characterized by a great capital - I think of Rome, I know enough - to create a rebalancing compared to small municipalities, but also medium. It is not that we have a conservative position for which we must defend the Provinces, absolutely not, but that we intervene within a rational, scientific reorganization. Otherwise we know only what is no longer there: a programming, for example, on school building, which deprives small and medium-sized municipalities (so, not only small ones), all the more so at this stage of crisis, of the possibility of planning a dignified network of higher institutions. This has not been done everywhere in our country: there are Provinces that have not done so (and I hope they have been penalized by the voters); therefore, they had different political orientations and alternated: when there is democracy this can happen. Of course, the nominations are not; they answer to those who appoint them, it is quite obvious; then the costs of the nominations will come, there is no doubt, and I dare you to bet on what will happen. With the institutions you do not play, you do not joke, because the damages are incalculable and have, first of all but not only, economic nature. We do not give ourselves control over corruption. Those of the present scaffolding are insufficient, and not only for the Provinces. Scrolling - I think you are in a position to do it all and to deny me, in case - the events that have characterized the corruption that in recent years has crossed all the folds of our system, the Provinces do not excel. I want to break a spear on this one. This does not lead me to say "then we defend, we leave everything as it is, for goodness sake, but I want to remember that it is not there that the maximum of corruption has been determined. I believe that if the failure to approve the preliminary question by only three or four votes will serve for a reflection that tackles in an organic and harmonious way the problem of democracy, powers, cost savings (which is a right), then there will be all the willingness of Left Ecology and Freedom to address the issue on the merits and to contribute to finding sure solutions to determine a more efficient and more democratic country. If, on the other hand, we want to strike only on the one hand, leaving inefficiency and costs and hitting democracy demagogically, we will not stand. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u34	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u35	Mr President, when we thought about the organization of territorial authorities, we did so with the experience of government and administration of our country that were born from other needs. We thought, immediately after the end of the Second World War, that we could combine the French model and the German model, and then we could import the Departments and the Länder, giving life to both the Provinces and the Regions. However, since we Italians are particular, so much so that we have given too much, too much time to the parties and to the partycracy, we have waited until 1970 to elect the Regional Councils, therefore another structure of this institutional architecture of the government of the territory and of the country that was also fundamental. But perhaps the beginning of the crisis can already be seen in this delay, which is evident to everyone today. It is clear to everyone that, in spite of the administrative decentralisation and the principle of subsidiarity set out in our Constitutional Charter, you parties have allowed citizenship to move further and further away from these forms of self-government and government of the territory, which should instead be the hall of democracy and the community. I remind myself first that when in Rome, the capital of the country, voted to elect the mayor of the city, the rate of participation in the vote was lower than that of abstention. Perhaps this is a good democracy for you. For you, perhaps democracy is bureaucracy, but for us democracy is participation, and we are alarmed when the citizens desert the ballot box. What did you think at some point, do you realize that perhaps the political crisis was coming upon you? We try to abolish the Provinces, also because then it is the entities that, all in all, manage less public budget (some remembered that they manage little more than 1% of GDP). This reduction, for you party apparatuses, could perhaps be the most functional to the conservation of institutions that you have granted only prebende, places and power. Very well, this is the history of 2008, and in that year the election campaign, in this country, was made with two blocks that promised against each other the abolition of the Provinces. Contemporaryness teaches us, six years later, that we are still following your promises. Your promises are such that, even within the majority, until a few days ago, there was a feeling of humor and criticism of this measure, it was nothing else because it will generate litigation: not being a constitutional bill, abolishing a body wanted by the Constitution will produce problems and above all litigation. For you, however, this is not a decisive aspect, because the important thing is to have the Renzi government, the government of speed, the government of doing, says and does; even if it does damage, because this will be the result of the measure. Why then not arrive, if you really want to abolish the Provinces, to a constitutional bill such as the one that was incardinated in the House by the will of one of our colleagues, Danilo Toninelli, with whom you simply ask the deletion of the word... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm warning you, you're running out of time. She's only got half a minute left. MORRA (M5S). I can see that I have time. Perhaps you could do that with other colleagues. In any case, if you want to achieve these results, you simply need to promote a constitutional bill that provides for the deletion of the word "Province". But above all, if you want to abolish a cost, you must be honest with your conscience and even more with Italian citizens. Politics is a profession to you. The bureaucracy has become an instrument with which to preserve armchairs and prebende. Try to be honest with yourself a little bit and maybe even with future generations. The country can no longer afford these delays. You brought him to collapse. You have to leave. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u37	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express some dissatisfaction, because I really feel that we are dealing here with an issue that many Members want to address and enter into the matter, but that there is unfortunately, for party orders by someone, the will to go right to the goal, because at least one objective must be achieved. Colleagues, we are all of the idea that this state, as it is at present, must be modified, innovated and above all renovated, as is done with a beautiful house, perhaps old, that must be improved. We are also convinced that reforms cannot be made with commercial announcements - as is currently being done - and with acts like this, but through an organic reform of the whole state. You can't do one thing one day, one thing another and another thing another day, without logic. We need a comprehensive reform, therefore, in the long run, as thought by the constituent Fathers, and not a reform based on the fashions of the moment. The constituent Fathers, when they wrote the Constitution, decided to reason in a very long term, decided to reason for us and also for our children. Instead, we are making these reforms with the idea that maybe, if it's okay, we can get the front page of a newspaper. It is also unthinkable that these reforms come from a Government whose President of the Council has occupied the role of President of the Province and of Mayor, and it is unthinkable that this disaster - because I call this disaster - also has the signature of Delrio: it is two people, Renzi and Delrio, who on the subject of local authorities have built their own advertising campaign and who, continuing to fill their mouths on the speech of local authorities, are trying to upset half of Italy. With regard to this measure, also talking to colleagues of the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre (since, perhaps contrary to Mr. Delrio and Mr. Renzi, they are often on the territory), when I told them that the Senate would arrive Delrio decree, they put their hands in the hair saying: But these are crazy! It is said that the elimination of the Provinces will lead to economies. Some say so, but someone else says otherwise, that it will lead to diseconomies. Says who? The Court of Auditors, the Bocconi University (and we have here emeritus colleagues of that institution), the Censis and forty-three constitutionalists. This is not what Senator Centinario says: people who have made their profession an analysis of the possible reforms of the Italian State. The elimination of the Provinces will be very expensive: 56,000 employees to transfer to other entities, and we all know very well that they will not be transferred to the lower institution, but to the higher institution. We will have to pass millions of contracts, utilities, contracts and services and we will have to transfer the real estate, so with expenses that I wonder if they have been considered by those who are presenting this measure. A real administrative débâcle, a legal delirium to be offered to the people as a symbol of the results achieved by a President-in-Office of the Council who is a little too chatty, who must do at all costs, but above all must keep the promises at all costs. So, since he can't keep his other promises, he's trying to keep this at least. I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party, to you who support a very Europeanist President-in-Office of the Council, so you who look at Europe always taking it as an example: let us also look at how much the Provinces cost and how much they affect other European countries. In France, the Provinces account for 6.3 percent; in Germany 4.5 percent; in Spain 3.2 percent; in Italy only 1.3 percent. I wonder why in other European countries they do not cut the Provinces: but because they are more efficient than us, not because they cost more! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead, in Italy we have to cut them because our President Renzi, after his experience in the Province, has decided that we have to cut the Provinces. I am afraid, because it will soon tell us that we must cut off the municipalities and, when you have finished your experience as President of the Council, you will tell us that we will have to cut off the Presidency of the Council! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the metropolitan areas, even here there is a bit of confusion. The abolition of the Provinces adds to the mess of the metropolitan areas, a mess that creates confusion between the roles of the Regions and these metropolitan cities. The metropolitan cities are capitals with special powers, they are the expansion of the power of government of the capitals towards the territory. I then ask myself a few questions: it is difficult to believe that a Mayor of a Town Hall of Metropolitan Area will really want to give priority to the problems of the smaller municipalities. Another question: why mayors unable - and I emphasize - to make living with dignity the suburbs should operate for Municipalities outside the belt of the city capital? I live in Pavia and I think in Milan, I think about how Mayor Pisapia treats the suburbs. I think what the hell the suburbs are doing in Milan. I wonder: how can Mayor Pisapia, since he doesn't even think about Milan, think about the towns that gravitate around the Milan metropolis? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I wonder: how can Mayor Orsoni of Venice - I take another - who is the coordinator of the Metropolitan Cities in ANCI, think, for example, of Teglio Veneto that has 2,300 inhabitants? If one goes to Venice he realizes that it is a disaster, I imagine what will become Teglio Veneto. Long live the Mayor of Teglio Veneto, of whatever color he may be. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Siano]] In the municipalities, another stupidity is the innovations related to lists and Juntas in the various municipalities. I barely read it, and I got goosebumps because we're in the middle of a campaign. The lists, ladies and gentlemen, if you take care of your territory, are already ready, right and left, and you change the rules in progress. It's not good. All this happens because of the haste of our "President Fonzie." MIRABELLI (PD). It's not like you can say anything you want! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Well, partner, take the floor and say whatever you want, since you say so much on TV. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] State structural reform and no more slogans, President; the elimination of more than 7,000 useless instrumental bodies would lead to a saving of seven billion. Let's say that with the Monti, Letta and Renzi governments the public debt has increased... president. Try to keep a proper language in this House. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). He's very consonant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is what the Presidency is evaluating. Please conclude, because your time is running out. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). The public debt increased with Renzi, Letta and Monti, while Provinces and Municipalities the public debt decreased. It is these local authorities that are holding this state to the gas barrel, and you, dear President Renzi, will be remembered, among other things, as the undertaker of the local autonomy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u39	Mr President, here comes your draft law abolishing the Provinces, at least as you have done to the Italians. But then, if we read the article, we find that the Provinces remain: in some areas they will be called Metropolitan Cities; in others even the diction remains "Province." What changes compared to now? The least democracy. We have, as always, a metropolitan and provincial council composed not of members directly elected by the citizens, but by Mayors and municipal councilors, a second level election that will see eligible only people already elected and in office, characters therefore that are not direct representation of citizens for that function and that, therefore, will not have to account to them in their metropolitan mandate. Any interference by the people is eliminated. In fact, it is known: the Italian must only pay taxes and maintain the costs of politics, but it cannot be expected to give him a say in affairs that are not of interest to him, such as the management of his own territory or the services related to it. Nor is cost containment a good thing, because, on balance, the same amount will be spent roughly. There is no allowance for the individual councilman, but there remains reimbursements, operating expenses, structures and whatever else, all that in the budgets of local administrations at this level is the real mischief to manage and divide. Since Mayors and City Councillors will be engaged in metropolitan bodies, who will carry out their duties in their respective municipalities? How can a good mayor or councilor best perform the mandate given by citizens if engaged on other fronts? You haven't thought about that at all, or you're implying that as we've been saying for a long time, those charges aren't needed. But then, why not abolish the Provinces directly? This is not a reform of the Provinces, but it is another mess of the PD, and we know it: you want to propose this filth also with the reform of the Senate and maybe send here to Rome the Presidents of the Region, because you obviously think that in the Regions they have nothing to do. Let's also eliminate the regions, if they don't have to, then. Sending the institutions to ruin: this is your task, far from modernising them and, above all, containing their costs by eliminating waste. Discourse aside is the approach that you give to the organs of the metropolitan cities, where, in addition to a cumbersome method of election that does not guarantee sufficiently small communities (and I remind you that the majority of Italian municipalities are medium and small) we also find a decision-making power and centralized action in the mayor of the capital. You will have a cannibalism from the capital city towards the entire outskirts and beyond, that will crush the small municipalities that surround our cities. We will only have city assemblies and residents frustrated by the awareness that even small decisions are made elsewhere, without the possibility of asserting their voice, making their own needs and dignity felt. The first interface between the State and the citizens is actually eliminated, but it is known: in small municipalities there are often no party lists, but individual citizens engaged in politics, free, civic and they are the ones that give the most boredom to power. They are not slaves to party secretariats and therefore are not aligned tout court with the decisions that are taken in the chambers of power and that are poured out as the only truth, the only sensible and possible decision. Well, with this law there will be less representation and more power for the usual few. Bravo, you did the spending review, yes, but of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u40	I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Assembly, the students and teachers of the Technical Trade Institute (Enrico Mattei) of Amandola, in the province of Fermo, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as my fellow Members from my previous group have already pointed out, the North League immediately says that the text proposed before by the Led Government and now by the Renzi Government, and approved by the Commission, is absolutely unsatisfactory and completely illegitimate in various constitutional respects. We find that the government's way of proceeding is absolutely delusional, and there can be no other formula to define what is happening. First of all, we are always frustrated, in our parliamentary activity, in the possibility of influencing the texts that come to us, only for party needs, armored. In the Commission we have tried to do a work on the settlement of a text which, frankly, has difficulty in being amended because we would not know where to start: we should simply delete it. Our request is for the government to repent and not proceed further. The maneuver that is being implemented is changing the current structure of the representation of territorial communities, in contempt of Article 1 of the Constitution, since we are still in a democratic Republic, unfortunately not yet federal, in which it is said that sovereignty belongs to the people. Popular sovereignty and democracy that are completely trampled on. This raises a strong alarm as regards constitutional compatibility, but also in the overall state of the democratic system that is emerging. We are witnessing an attempt to delete by legislative means, through an ordinary law, a constitutionally envisaged body such as the Province at present, and we proceed, on the other hand, to repeated extensions of the commissioners that are in progress and that currently hold the ordinary administration of the Provinces, in contempt precisely of popular sovereignty. It should be said first of all that the first profile, which cannot be silenced, and which we also raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is that we cannot proceed with ordinary law to modify an entity that is constitutionally foreseen: many lawyers and constitutionalists have said so, but despite this the Government pretends nothing and proceeds. Indeed, we have heard in the Commission today that the Government is fully aware that this is a reform that anticipates the more comprehensive and organic reform of the state that should come now, with the reform of Title V, and that therefore is a transitional management. This is why we are talking about a delusional way of proceeding: a transitional discipline is put in place, which will have a limited duration in time and which in days will have to be overcome by an organic reform - for now only announced in the newspapers by the Renzi Government and its ministers - of Title V, by overcoming the perfect bicameralism, to accompany itself then, even, to the reform of the electoral law. But do we realize that we are going counterhand, counter-sense, counter-trend? The government's attempt is not to enact constitutional illegitimacy measures to solve the problems of the country, but to give a signal; therefore the government confirms and admits that it is pure demagogy. In fact, we highlight this by reading the text. It is useless that the representatives of the Democratic Party, who cannot do otherwise, also sell this reform as the one that leads to the abolition of the Provinces. That's not true, it's not. We don't lie, not to say anything else, to people. The Provinces remain, so much so that the text itself in Chapter III indicates the body Province, its organs and the modalities of election, as well as the transitional phase. Let us tell the truth: the Provinces remain, they are only emptied to some extent of their content; indeed, they are disorganized. In fact, some of their functions are attributed in part to the highest level, the Regions, in part to the lowest level, the Municipalities, in a confusing way that only creates unnecessary overlaps and managerial complications, without clarifying what happens for public employees, who will probably go completely to the head of the Regions; without saying who will perform what functions, which services in favor of citizens and with what money. Therefore, in the light of the current legislation on the Stability Pact, we wonder how courageously the Government is to carry out such a reform that it does not say, and indeed complicates things, who will do what and, above all, who will pay; and this, as always, to the detriment of public funds and citizens' interests. It is always a question of reforms designed to save expenditure, but that is not the case. Those who preceded me have already told what is the true incidence of the cost of the provincial agency for the organization of the state. It is ridiculous compared to a myriad of other sources of waste and inefficiencies. Let us think of the tide of agencies, intermediate bodies, instruments of the regions and of the various territorial levels. You don't even know how many there are. The Court of Auditors in the Commission has confirmed that it has no certainty as to the precise number. It could be 5,500, 6,000 or even 7,000. What is certain is that those are the real sources of waste, inefficiency and waste of public money. The Province responds to the needs of the territory. I would like to remind you that the Government, with this reform, besides going against the trend gives a totally wrong signal: it formulates a purely demagogic proposal, without affecting the excessive cost of Ministries, participating societies, administrative machine of the central apparatuses of the State, without affecting the real costs and the suffocating bureaucracy that is killing our economy and our enterprises. A proposal, this, in contrast to the interests of the territorial communities. First of all it must be said that in the same territorial area there is an overlap of entities: there will be the Region, there will be the Metropolitan City, there will be the Province agency, there will be the unions and mergers of Municipalities, without it really being clarified who will do well what. In this sense, the Court of Auditors itself speaks of organizational hypertrophy and certifies that, over the medium to long period, it is not said that the alleged expenditure savings which should result from a reduction in policy costs are not clearly exceeded by an increase in costs. On this alleged saving in expenditure which should result from the cutting of the governing bodies, ladies and gentlemen, let us analyse the amendments adopted in the Commission aimed at increasing the number of members in the municipalities to 3,000 inhabitants and - then - in those from 3,000 to 10,000 inhabitants. Beyond the discussion whether it is right or not, if we consider and count the actors involved, from the Metropolitan City, to the Metropolitan Conference, to the bodies of the Provinces, to the increase in the number of advisors, are we sure of getting a savings? What we have counted is, in fact, an increase in armchairs and, therefore, an increase in costs. We believe that, in reality, we must proceed in a completely different way. We have always been in favour of, and agree with, an organic reform of the state's architecture. Regional realities should even be rethought. I wonder why there are still twenty regions when there are regions with a population of less than many provinces. We think of macro-regions that really can carry out functions of direction and control within a federal system, which has never been fully implemented and which would really lead to cost savings and cost containment. We must consider enhancing the different territorial realities and their autonomy. See that what is coming these days from Veneto is an alarming and strong signal, which the central government should take into account, because these autonomous demands and pushes will be stronger and stronger. This is the only way to ensure efficiency, efficiency and transparency. In the light of all this, our judgment can only be absolutely negative. We call for policy to make choices that are for the benefit of all citizens and that take account of and respect the will of the people. It is a significant fact, in fact, as the body that you foresee completely trampled on the popular will, eliminating the possibility of direct election of the most representative bodies of the citizens. For these reasons, we ask that we do not approve this bill and that we supersede it, first facing the organic reform of the Constitution. I am really beginning to conclude, Mr President, by saying that, rather than tackling the reorganisation of territorial authorities in the context of planned constitutional reforms, territorial specificities, autonomy and respect for the will of the people must be taken into account. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u43	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before the Senate House is a measure of great political importance and of strong institutional impact. The measure is of great political importance because the articulation of local authorities has direct and immediate repercussions on the lives of citizens, on the services which the public administration provides them and on the protection of the rights that affect everyone's everyday life. It is also of great institutional impact because the draft law aims not only to regulate a territorial body - the metropolitan city - which was first envisaged by legislation and then - also - by the Constitution, starting with the entry into force of the 2001 reform and never actually established, but - more generally - it places a reorganization of the organisation of the smaller territorial authorities, pending an overall reform of institutional rank. With this in mind, the draft law establishes the metropolitan cities; this rules of principle are functional to the discipline of these entities by the Regions with a special statute; it regulates the Provinces, regulating their functions and articulating in a more functional way the institutional apparatus; this provisions in the matter of Unions and mergers of Municipalities, renewing the unique text of the local authorities. In this speech, I will just briefly address a few issues. The other issues have been dealt with abundantly by my colleagues, given, among other things, the complexity of the matter and the richness of innovations produced by the bill. Of particular importance are the provisions on municipalities - small municipalities - which I would like to focus on. First of all, the draft law takes care to remedy some of the legislative innovations of the recent past that had made a drastic reduction of the members of the municipal councils and even abolished the Junta in the smallest municipalities. The reduction in the number of municipal councillors, however, has created unmistakable repercussions on the representativeness of the Councils, which risk not being able to fulfil that representative function which they, as such, cannot fail to fulfil. It certainly does not note here the reduction of expenditure, because from the experience that I have experienced in my professional activity, very often in small municipalities, the Councillors, advisers and members, in general, of the Council and of the Council receive absolutely no compensation and no reimbursement. The bill appropriately provides that in the municipalities with population up to 3,000 inhabitants the Council is composed of the Mayor and 10 councilors and, for the municipalities from 3,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, is composed of Mayor and 12 councilors. Therefore, by means of these rules, we can help to give breath back to the smaller administrations, both through a composition of the Council suitable to give more representativeness to the body, and through the restoration of the Junta. Again in municipal matters, I would like to point out that the draft law also provides for an important novelty: that in municipalities with a population of more than 3,000 inhabitants neither of the sexes can be represented in the Councils to an extent less than 40%. This is an extremely important rule, which allows the implementation of the principle of gender equality in the executive bodies of the Municipalities, in implementation of Article 51 of the Constitution and of constitutional jurisprudence, and in compliance with the requests that have so far been invoked mainly in the judicial process. Finally, I would like to draw my attention to something that is particularly close to my heart. The bill contains a happy innovation in the matter of union of Municipalities. In the original text of the measure, in view of the identification of the Union as a new local reference body for the exercise of fundamental functions, there was no provision for a stable professional figure, necessary to ensure the good performance and impartiality of the administrative activity. Only the President of the Union of Municipalities was allowed to avail himself, for specific functions which required him, of the secretary of a municipality belonging to the Union. It was, of course, a faculty that could not even be exercised, marinating the figure of the municipal secretary. Appropriately, an amendment was adopted by the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs under which the President avails himself of the secretary of a municipality belonging to the Union. All without new or greater burdens for public finance. Innovation should be welcomed, given the importance of the secretary and the importance of the functions, strengthened just over a year ago with the assignment of new tasks in anti-corruption and transparency. The municipal secretary, in fact, carries out tasks of collaboration and functions of administrative legal assistance towards the organs of the municipality, in relation to the conformity of the administrative action with the laws, the statutes and the regulations. This is a delicate, technical and responsible role. The absence of such a figure represented a strong vulnus compared to the need to ensure the good performance of administrative activity (constitutionally recognised principle) and the proper functioning of the bodies, with a view to the implementation of the principle of separation and linking politics and administration. It is therefore important to highlight the Secretary and the growing need to open a serious debate on the figure and to give a precise legal recognition to the role played by that body. In the current regulatory framework, only the common sense and professionalism of municipal secretaries can guarantee the role of protecting and guaranteeing the legitimacy of the local authority's action. Furthermore, the agenda presented to the House by some colleagues is also a preoccupy, with the aim of providing for the optional status of the secretary, even in all local authorities. Forecast which would result in the enormous damage of the loss of a centre of responsibility able to guarantee the unity of the local administrative system. I apologize if I took advantage of this opportunity, but I would like to invite the Government and Parliament, in the course we are going to do, to reform the institutional structure of the country (and therefore also the local autonomy and public administration), finally to face a rational discussion on the role of the municipal secretary and, more generally, on the need for a stable and autonomous professional figure, which guarantees, on the one hand, the needs of legality and transparency and, at the same time, efficiency and innovation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u45	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the important work he has done over the past few weeks. It will allow me, however, to believe that your claim that this measure would start a constituent season should perhaps be re-qualified a little. The measure under consideration is a measure that starts waiting for the constituent season and is certainly a first step that contains - as I will say - some significant points that have long been expected. However, in my opinion, this bill does not affect - perhaps it could not do so in the current constitutional framework - what are the original causes of the degeneration presented in the last fifteen years by the system of multilevel governance, which has led to a sort of rejection and rejection by the public, which the Provinces have perhaps spent more than others, not always rightly. Why has this happened, given that in all multilevel administration systems there is a large area between the municipality and sometimes also between the region and the Länder? It was because, according to a typically Italian practice, as the organisational model of the decentralized state was evolving, there was no adequate intervention on the underlying levels, in the sense that the political institutions and Parliament did not find enough strength to reorganize the existing according to principles of rationality and efficiency, but gradually there were stratifications of the new on what already existed. And so the main source of the problems we have had in the last fifteen years was, for example, when, in 2000, Parliament gave birth to Article 114 of the Constitution, with which a three-pointed equal federalism was introduced, which is not equal, at least in the European world and for which all levels are constitutionally guaranteed in their prerogatives and are mutually autonomous. This prevented the establishment of a principle of hierarchical organisation between a macro-legislative (regional) dimension and sub-regional levels of territorial organisation. In the same way there is the speech - of which I hope we will be able to discuss when we will soon face the revision of Title V linked to the reform of the Senate - of the organization of the Regions, which, as is well known, are statistical entities, racked up in the 1948 Constitution and never questioned. Thus, when we have to organise efficient vast areas, we will also have to start to wonder whether the regions have a sufficient dimension to carry out the legislative functions for the competences assigned to them by the Constitution, as well as strategic planning of the territories. I believe that the paradox of regions of 800,000 inhabitants who see regional government, provincial governments, municipal governments and all other levels should be the subject of constitutional intervention. I believe that it is necessary to define and limit the innovative scope of the measure that we are examining today. This is the result of savings in the allowances of elected members. In fact, we move from a direct election model to an indirect election model, starting from the assumption that the constitutionally guaranteed character will be diminished by Article 114 and that, in any case, the autonomy given by the Constitution to the Provinces does not necessarily imply the method of direct election. I believe that this cannot be contested because the Constitutional Court - which also intervened on the so-called Monti decree, which carried out a similar operation - did not contest the intervention of the ordinary law, but only that of the decree-law. Therefore, if he had considered that the constitutional system guarantees the Province as it is, he could certainly have indicated it to the legislator. Therefore, a constitutional measure, but limited in scope. The measure, however, does not reduce those costs which are not the direct financial costs of the state budget or the enlarged public budget, i.e. the costs of bureaucratic intermediation. On the contrary, from this point of view, I believe that we need to express some concern: not only do we not eliminate the provincial level and do not carry out a rationalization, amalgamation and reduction operation (as the so-called Monti decree had started and as I think it absolutely must be done), but we create a further level of local authority, represented by the Union of Municipalities. This had never been qualified as such, but at this point it has a constitutive process, its own organs, its own functions, which, however, do not have an exclusive character; it travels through voluntary and faculty mechanisms, in which the risk is that once again we do not start that operation of functional simplification and clear, unambiguous and readable attribution by all citizens and businesses operating on the territory of the person who does what. Even with respect to the relationship between the entity of the vast area, or Metropolitan City, (on which I will return shortly) and Province, there is - allow me the expression - the same original sin, that is, the one that tried to chase, grasp and atone for a code of autonomy, but never actually approved, and that also this measure fails to resolve. The reason for identifying the Provinces as one of the causes or the symbolic cause of the degeneration of the system lies, in my opinion, in two phenomena, one typical of the late nineties. I am referring to the multiplication of the Provinces on the territory as bodies more aimed at giving political representation than at simplifying and rationalising the management of functions typically networked. In this regard, I should like to point out a very delicate point. The heart of the large-area entity should be precisely that of programming, regulation and trusting through tender for economically relevant network services. No one escapes, however, that today this is the heart, also from the point of view of the economic value, of the activity of the Municipalities, in particular those chief town of Metropolitan City or anyway of the capitals of a certain consistency. The key point that has never been resolved is to shift this competence from the municipal level to a wide area level, which has a very strong added economic and political value. From here comes another consideration, or rather a question, that I believe we must ask ourselves about the elective or second degree character, not only of the metropolitan mayor, but also of the President of the Province: that is, whether a metropolitan mayor or a President of the Province of second degree have the political force, the legitimacy, but also the grip on the territory, on the administrations and on the basis of its constitution strong enough to claim and impose this role of strategic programming and regulation of the services to network, that are the key point of the government of the great metropolitan areas and the great systems of vast area. (17.26) (Followed by Mr Lanzillotta). But the second point that led to the degeneration of the system was another: not only have the Provinces become many, but under or beside have continued to exist all those organizations, agencies and consortia responsible for the functions proper to the Provinces, such as the ATO (the optimal territorial ambitions) of waste and water, the industrial consortia, the reclamation ones, and those who have more to put them. They are organisms that make sense to the body of the vast area and that create a multiplication of subjects that the operators of the territory are forced to resolve. Let me stress that this measure, apart from the question of the elective nature of the organs, does not solve any of these problems: it mentions them, it gives a hint of awareness of their existence, but it does not solve them in a clear and sure way, because it initiates a process, which has already been undertaken by law, for example in the case of the abolition of the ATO and the consortia, which should already be carried out, without, however, putting final points and giving certainties. Therefore, the point that we do not understand is how this "shrinking" of the times, i.e. these times so long, can be compatible with the fact that this is a transitional regulation. If it is transitory with respect to a constitutional path that is coming, it should also be a very short and compact legislation, implemented and improved in its application within a short period of time. On the other hand, the rapporteur had even imagined three-year sliding plans, which make us imagine endless paths. So I think I read in the text a small mental reserve, that is the idea that, whatever the constitutional reform, in the end this provisional arrangement will remain, as often happens in our country, a definitive structure. But then the problems of local governance would not be solved. Therefore, I think that one of the hypotheses (even if I realize that it would be a very small political sign) would be to make the regulatory intervention on a regime on the functional and organizational post-constitutional revision, now providing only that part that pertains to the organs and that has been resolved appropriately by the transitional rule. Also because, if that is not the case, and if all these processes are to be broken down over time, I wonder what we are going to say to Commissioner Cottarelli or to those who for him will have to transfer the quantitative effects of the rules that we are approving to the public budget. In fact, the problem of the elimination of the Provinces and the rationalization of the multi-level system is not only about the reduction of the costs of the organs, which are quite marginal, but about the reduction of the bureaucratic support apparatus. If the Provinces remain what they are today, all property costs or personnel costs will ultimately not be reduced much. Not only that, but if the structure of the vast area is not profoundly modified, in order to arrive at a model type what had emerged from the so-called Monti decree, we will not have the other effect - which is what really determines the reduction of costs - of the rationalization of the offices of the State on the territory, which will inevitably follow the dimension of the vast area. This is because we will not be able to create a symmetry between the local authorities of large areas and the size of the state offices for which we will not be able to operate in that sector in which we should have a radical pruning. I understand that there are resistances here that are not just bureaucracy. Let us be clear: the provincial dimension is the organizational dimension of so many associative systems, of trade unions, of confindustria, of all the associationism and of the social representations, which are systems of power also and that, of course, if the base to which to refer the organizational model is lost, they are also deeply engraved inside. And yet, if we think... Senator, finish. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). ... That this season must be - as the President-in-Office of the Council has told us - a radical reformism, so that the timidities that are in this text we attribute to the residual of a season that is running out, but not to an advance of the phase that we all expect. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u48	Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Government, as has already been the case during this parliamentary term, this Assembly finds itself having to approve a measure with the minutes counted, because failure to approve it would be a serious problem. However, an approval, with the seal of provisionality, of the buffer measure, since we are in the midst of a reform destined to change the overall structure again. None of us, and I first of all, wants us to proceed with new elections for the Presidents of the Province, because it would be catastrophic from every point of view, and for this reason we would be responsible, partly because there is a clear imbalance, which must be healed, between Provinces that still have political leadership and others that have had a Commissioner for two years because in the meantime no new elections have been held pending reform. The dramatic case of the Province of Belluno is there to show us a situation of blatant injustice - and I would say political and bureaucratic prevarication - that today risks exasperation and even popular revolt. But the hope is that the Senate will no longer be put to work under such conditions, especially if there are measures that deeply redesign, like this, institutional architecture. Therefore, I hope that the actual institutional reform plan, which the Government has announced and already presented, will take place with a different method. Having said that, we believe that the measure addresses a very important issue by redesigning the functions and competences of an institution which, in many cases, has appeared weak, with little impact on the lives of citizens. Their transformation into second level entities leads the Provinces to be entities with strictly managerial functions, where the political and administrative direction can very well be given by the Municipalities or the Regions, thus producing a simplification and an acceleration of the decision-making processes. Moreover, the identification and introduction of metropolitan areas as a unitary area of administrative action represents a step forward which finally links Italy to the rest of Europe. We therefore welcome this measure, although with all the limitations and reservations I have mentioned, which is based on its fact that it is taking a concrete step forward on matters of which so much has been said, but never at all. However, it remains a fundamental principle for us. The reform of the institutions will result in a qualitative increase in decision-making processes, in administrative ones, and will have a positive impact on people's lives only if this will be able to draw a dress able to fit on the specificities of our country (the President Renzi has also reiterated this in this House). Then it is clear that this measure in itself is not enough: it will assume meaning and value, in that overall framework related to functions and competences, with the new reform of Title V, but also with the new Senate of the self-governments, which for us represent the real test for the modernization of our institutions and for a real autonomy of regional institutions and autonomous provinces. A reform, the latter, in which it is necessary to rewrite the whole plan of competences in order to avoid the conflicts of attribution and the over-production of legislation that we have witnessed over the last thirteen years. As self-employed, we will endeavour to introduce a safeguard clause for special self-governments. From this point of view, the sensitivity and competence of the undersecretary Bressa reassure us. In principle, this is not very different from the identification of metropolitan areas, i.e. the fact that there is a single and unitary basin that needs the same instrument of government and with competences that take account of the historical and social peculiarity. On the basis of this line of reasoning, the measure which we are debating, our Group has tabled amendments in this House which take account of the specific nature of mountain areas, which, we believe, need special and dedicated governance. On this it has been ironized and not little, as if the question was that of a territory that puts in place an effective lobbying-corporative dynamic. Instead, they are simply the objective difficulties of those areas, easily imaginable even by those who have not lived there or had an experience as administrator in those areas. And then the real experiences of self-government and self-management of the territory, which historically have been able to demonstrate (and the rules of Cadore are there to teach it). For this reason, while awaiting that general reform of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution, we ask that an intermediate body be maintained for the fully mountain provinces that is directly elected by the citizens and is the basis for the assumption of greater administrative, regulatory and financial responsibilities, as provided by the Constitution to protect the mountain, by the European norms for the alpine arch and by the reform Monti of 2012, which decreed the exceptionality of those areas. We also ask that, for the provinces entirely mountain and bordering with foreign countries, an adequate financial space be provided for the major functions assigned precisely by paragraph 2 of Article 17, thus completing the recognition of the specificity that is introduced with article 1, paragraph 3. We still ask, always with reference to the mountain provinces, that we speak not only of strategic development, but of strategic, economic and social development, to support the local economy, for example with active policies for work (now absolutely necessary), and the improvement of the living conditions of the community of reference, in particular with interventions that aim at social cohesion. All this in order to ensure that the current measure does not go to hit negatively and to mortify territories that, for historical and geographical peculiarities, for the management complexity that concerns them, require different tools compared to other areas. And the risk of hydrogeological failure we all experienced this year. Having always in mind what I said before: the principle that must guide the new institutional design must keep within the specifics in order not to depress and mortify them, but to allow them to best express their potential. Just as, with this measure, you try to do with the metropolitan cities and, as we hope, you will want to do with the mountain areas. Our Group will vote in favour of this measure, but - I repeat - with the challenge referred back to the far more general measure, which is the actual institutional and constitutional reform. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u49	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is distracted and the subject is not the most compelling, so I would like to limit my speech to examples. Reading the text of this bill, of this pateracchio for the truth, which you present to us, I was reminded of an anecdote about a Neapolitan who, having to go to Turkey, had a dog with him. When they arrived at the border, they explained to him that Muslims did not allow domestic animals, except cats. Then the Neapolitan said (and I say it in dialect because it is understandable): "Ah, whatever," then "or pittamm". I mean, you paint the dog so that it looks like a cat, and that's exactly what this bill proposes, which doesn't abolish anything at all, but transforms, if it doesn't get worse, the old organizational structure of the Provinces and, to be honest, as always happens to the rulers who don't know how to distangle because they don't know whether to be meat or fish, you start from the tail and not from the head. As I have said several times, I believe that the vote of no confidence that we gave the Renzi Government was born from a very simple consideration: what kind of government is this? Is it a government that wants to continue on the path of statism, therefore of state bureaucracies, therefore of confusion, inefficiency and high costs, or is it a government that wants to insert, within the system, liberal criteria in institutions and free market in economy? I'll explain. We, instead of asking ourselves the problem of modifying Title V of the Constitution and starting from this, and therefore destatizing that is to imagine a more slender, more efficient and minimal form of State that is less expensive, less farraginosa, less bolosa, less bureaucratic and less redundant, we go from the tail to redesign a link of the chain, just because the vulgate is to say that, abolishing the Provinces, we are cutting expenses. It is like the story of the cut of the parliamentarians: so far no one has explained from the economic point of view, being ridiculous its relapse, why we have to cut the number of parliamentarians by half and not by two thirds or a third and we have to abolish the Senate and not the House of Deputies. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Volpi]] This belongs to the history of Italian folklore: someone, like a great journalist, an opinion leader gets up one morning and throws out this which then becomes consolidated patrimony of other maître à penser until it is offered to the general public and citizens as a tool or to moralize politics or to recover, in the context of the savings that are of a very different size and nature, a virginity lost compared to disservices, probably compared to the dissipation of the public money of which a whole political class has been characterized for a long period. We are in a position to abolish the Provinces because we have to save money, and then the Legist colleague is right: why do we not abolish the Presidency of the Council, which has about 3,000 or 3,500 ambushes, parasites and people who do absolutely nothing from morning to evening? Why don't we immediately close down all the parastatos, most of the 11,700 state-owned companies that carry hundreds and hundreds of millions of deficits per year? The only Ansaldo, which in some ways is our flagship, has 5 billion euros of debt. I do not believe that the pseudo-Copernican decision to transform the Provinces into metropolitan areas can give even the hundredth part of the savings that could be made by ACEA. Lately with the decree saves Rome we have put back about 150 million euros, because the Mayor of the Capital and the Caltagirone, the minority members, instead of producing profits that the Caltagirone themselves would have introduced, have produced losses for the usual disservices, for the redundancy of staff and the lack of any parametration of productivity, merit and capacity. We continue to give 34 million euros to the deaths of hunger and to the groups that cannot feed ourselves we give something like 40 euros per month: we could have given him 140 if the 150 million euros data to ACEA had been delivered to Caritas or to the food banks to which the really poor part of the country addresses. And you come here with a provision in which you cassate the provinces and called metropolitan areas! You see, one of the criticisms liberals make of statism is that when the state is weak, redundant and complicated to manage, there is a condition: more functions and more officials. There is an eloquent precedent: local health companies have also been merged by large area. Has the deficit decreased in the southern regions? The deficit comes from the detachment of the State-run Health Service, which is paid on the list and which has no parameters of productivity, merit and quality; it certainly did not come from the fact that in a Province there were two health companies. It is true that we would have saved the salary of 50 officials. But the source of debt and economic disharmony, as well as the functional one, is the lack in this State of any criterion for the recognition of productivity, efficiency and quality! We are a state that with four and a half million employees we allow ourselves the luxury of paying them for the single day of presence, without evaluating at all what is done, how much is done and how it is done! And you come here to say that changing the order of the addends the sum changes: instead it does not change. You are also limiting the autonomy, because you are subjecting all the small municipalities that fall into the metropolitan area, which will be subject and crushed by the capital municipalities. Then, you see: since I refer to the history and political culture of Luigi Sturzo, who taught us what the local autonomy is, I tell you that this is one of the hot cloths of this new Government (which is old, indeed is worse than the previous one, because that one did not have the revolutionary robe). I won't call Fonzie the President of the Renzi Council, but I'll call him Madame Verdurin. Those who have read the recherche du temps perdu by Proust... PRESIDENT. I always call on everyone to respect the institutional functions, regardless of their opinions. D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, you insulted Berlusconi in every way. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u51	I don't believe in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u52	D'ANNA (GAL). Nano, psychonano... president. Certainly not in this House and certainly not during the Presidency. D'ANNA (GAL). Let me talk, please. Let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I'm just calling you to respect language. D'ANNA (GAL). You've said all kinds of things. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're wrong. D'ANNA (GAL). With impudence and impertinence. Can you tell us that the President of the Council resembles Madame Verdurin? Can we say that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't think so. D'ANNA (GAL). Have you read Proust's Recherche? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sure. D'ANNA (GAL). Good girl. Then let me say: Madame Verdurin, not being able to change things, when she went to Paris and returned she changed her hat: the environment was always provincial. Well, the fried air of hot cloths and the maintenance of the status quo of this type of state is the same. Madame Verdurin's hat will not change the cultural context of Madame's living room. This government, which says it wants to stand up as a revolutionary and to turn Italy like a sock, has done nothing but put a little chromatin on old and worn-out shoes that are those of the stately, are those of the prevailing cattocommunism. There is an epigon of Dossetti at the government desk, which I know from youth groups. I know how they think, and this state is convenient. You are with this provision of the Gattopards and the Transformists. You don't want to abolish anything. I repeat: you do not want to abolish anything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. D'ANNA (GAL). Did the interruption count as well? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We already gave her an extra minute, don't worry. So finish, please. D'ANNA (GAL). Bravo, ma'am, good girl. Then I conclude by saying that we cannot, we must not and we do not want to vote on this measure. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u53	I greet the pupils and students of the Institute including San Domenico Savio in Barletta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order under Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I'm gonna make a little premise. In the light of the presentation of our request for urgent procedure, duly carried out yesterday, it would have been appropriate to give us notice in good time and not in the Chamber, only for a speech of correctness between a parliamentary group such as that of the 5 Star Movement and this Presidency. This is just a premise and the courtesy speech is probably not for everyone. In any case, the urgent procedure is provided for in Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure - which we of the 5 Star Movement read, and we expect the Presidency to do the same - to discuss or vote on items not on the agenda. There are no exceptions or exceptions in the text of the above article. The declaration of inadmissibility of President Grasso is therefore not understood. The regulatory interpretation must necessarily be characterized by the literal examination of the rule in which - it is worth repeating - no types of measures are excluded; on the contrary, there is talk of discussion and voting on matters not foreseen, Madam President, regardless of the course of the measure in the Commission and its type. The 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group considers the interpretation of Rule 56 (4) to be very serious. This interpretation is both arbitrary and incorrect. A short time ago, Madam President, President Grasso did not give the floor to one member of each group, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. There was therefore no discussion in this House whether this constitutional bill could be put on the agenda immediately, as if it were a taboo. We ask you, therefore, to provide us with exhaustive documentation of the precedents referred to in Article 56, paragraph 4. Just to give you some input, we find that a very significant precedent already exists: during the afternoon sitting of 24 July 2002, although in terms of implicit deliberation, nine draft laws authorising the ratification of international treaties were placed on the agenda, in accordance with the urgent procedure, and therefore refer to Article 72, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution to which you referred just now. Finally, let me say this, since this is not the first time that this happens precisely to the detriment of the 5 Star Movement, it seems that the possibility of using a tool clearly provided for in the Rules of Procedure is precluded. Then there is the tremendous doubt that whenever the contradictions of this majority, and of the PD in particular, are brought to light and transparently, our demands are declared inadmissible by the Presidency and by President Grasso in particular. Let us hope that this is just our impression or a strange coincidence, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u57	In the meantime, I would remind you and the whole House that what President Grasso read at the opening of the sitting is correct and corresponds exactly to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I would also remind you that the draft law you have presented has yet to do, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, the procedure which provides first for investigation in the Commission and then for examination in the Assembly. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene]] Please, Senator, you did your speech, I replied to you, in the sense that I consider it valid... [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] The Presidency responds, we may disagree, but so it is. SANTANGELO (M5S). Use the courtesy of giving me the floor, I'll be brief. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, we recorded what you said and I replied. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, give me the floor, you have read a serious inaccuracies. And she's talking on the microphone, and I'm not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, because I show you that Article 72 of the Constitution says that the examination takes place first in the Commission, and the draft law was presented yesterday. SANTANGELO (M5S). In accordance with Rule 92, you must give me the floor whenever I ask you to! [[Protests from the PD desks.]] First, lower your tone, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, if you don't give me the floor, how do you feel? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am answering you, indeed I have already answered you, but I give you the floor for one more minute. Please, Senator Santangelo. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm sorry, but if you don't let me turn on the microphone... I'm sorry, but if I'm talking, isn't it right for me to say the word and then give you the word? You value these elements, too. Please, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u58	Madam President, I am sorry if I overshadowed your voice. I repeat that Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure provides for one member to be given the floor for each Group, and this has not been done, and there is absolutely no written text in the article of the Constitution to which you refer. This is the first time that the article of the Constitution has been read with reference to the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. Parliament's Rules of Procedure have precisely the function of interpreting the Constitution and referring to it clearly. If you read well, Madam President... (The vice-president, Mr Fedeli, consults with a parliamentary adviser.) But you have to listen to me, otherwise I will speak directly to the counselor who assists you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm listening. Don't worry. You're welcome. SANTANGELO (M5S). That article of the Constitution makes clear and explicit reference (there are numbers and asterisks that are brought down, Madam President) to articles of the Rules of Procedure and does not explicitly mention Rule 56 (4). Your answer, therefore, is absolutely not exhaustive and I ask you to have the necessary clarifications and to put this proposal to the vote, which is clear. If this is not discussed in the Chamber, you consider that the proposal to hold a meeting of the Conference of Leaders could also be called into question, which would have, as you have done before, included the same constitutional bill on the calendar. This has been prevented... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Protests from the PD desks.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u59	Conclude, Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm done. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u61	Senator Santangelo, we take note of your reply. I confirm what the President has read in this Chamber and what this Presidency has said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u63	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text of the bill amending the institutional structure of the territories imposes some considerations on the government of the Provinces with territory entirely mountainous and bordering with foreign countries (essentially Sondrio and Belluno). These are rules that, starting from the general indication of the third paragraph of Article 1, are affected by the forecasts of detail reserved in general for the transformation of the Provinces into entities of wide area of second degree. I certainly consider it important that a very first recognition of the general peculiarity of the peripheral areas of the mountain was formally expressed by the Government with the rule under consideration, but first of all I would have anchored the rule to the Alpine Convention, signed in Salzburg on 7 November 1991, amended on 6 April 1993 and enforced by Italy by Law No 403 of 1999. It is an international treaty signed by the Alpine countries with the aim of promoting sustainable development and protecting the interests of the resident population, taking into account complex environmental, social, economic and cultural issues. In order to achieve these aims, it is most appropriate to have a local territorial authority such as the Province able to place itself, because of its size, in a position such as to take a synoptic look at the entire mountain territory. In particular, the Protocol annexed to the Convention, which is therefore a law, provides for measures to be implemented to promote the equal opportunities of the local population in social, cultural and economic development, while respecting territorial competences. In order for this to be effective, as I see it, a commitment by the State and the adoption of specific regional strategies are not enough, but a strengthening and not an emptying of all territorial authorities is necessary in terms of their ability to act in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The reading of the bill then shows obvious operating limitations. The specificity declared in paragraph 3 of Article 1 is becoming more and more crystallized in a purpose lacking, however, a real development in the successive forecasts of detail that, indeed, if approved, will put at serious risk the governability of the mountain territories. It is good to start from a point of view which I consider essential for subsequent evaluations. The specificity of the entirely mountainous areas lies essentially in the fragmentation of their territory and, therefore, in the objective difficulties of management and governance of the territory. These are known problems with respect to which the same territories have, over time, sought and activated autonomous solutions in a condition that has become such also reason for conceptual forcings, on the periphery of the country. This situation has been progressively confronted with the need, especially from the economic and productive point of view, to cope with socio-economic changes of supranational significance, which are generally included in the so-called globalisation. These phenomena have wiped out the territorial boundaries and have forced mountain areas to organize themselves in such a way as to gain a solid competitiveness. The results of these changes - we must remember this - have led to real upheavals in the mountains. One fact is enough: over the last 30 years the Italian mountain population has fallen by almost 15% on average, with dramatic peaks in regions such as Veneto and Piedmont (over 30% and over 40% less respectively). Such a hemorrhage is, of course, a problem that has been progressively fueled by the inability to meet the structural needs of the mountain society, in a word by a poor government of the same. Limits of government that have been translated into a lack - often forced by the scarcity of instruments available - of operational choices and concrete actions of land management, even in the face of macroscopic needs. In this respect, it is appropriate to mention, as a significant example, the issue of the infrastructure of these areas. For the reasons, also morphological, to which I have mentioned, it is clear the need to bring together the individual territories of which the mountain areas are composed and the infrastructures (viaries, energy, technology) are the first essential instrument to allow a real government of the territory. What must be avoided is a dispersion of energies, which provokes a waste of resources, which in turn generates escape from the territories and the territories. And by this I am also referring to the recent referendary events that have interested and still interest some mountain municipalities of my Province - Belluno - attracted by the most inviting condition of the neighbouring Regions and Provinces with special status, equipped, yes, with the appropriate tools to deal with the peculiarities that characterize them as territories, at once, of mountain and border. Incidentally, it is worth remembering that the image of the mountain as a poor territory is now a refrain of the past: we all know, instead, that it is the difficulty to valorize the mountain resources to provoke phenomena of removal from the same. The issue of infrastructure is equal to the needs related to the protection of the right to study (which in the high mountains is increasingly less guaranteed), the right to health (with hospital facilities reduced or intended for closure), in short, essential rights, constitutionally guaranteed. A sound reform should facilitate the recovery of this fundamental dowry, which is the responsibility of every Italian citizen. It does not, however, do the measure that we are debating today. Therefore, coming in detail to the indications of the bill, I highlight in the first place the inadequacy of the forecasts relating to representation. The bill provides for the wide-area government to elect a President and a Council (for example, with offices of different durations and, therefore, with serious and certain risks of discontinuity) by the municipalities of the Province itself. The President of the Province will be one of the Mayors, elected by the votes of the other Mayors, who, however, do not count on their heads, but in proportion to the number of inhabitants of their municipality. It is clear that such a system will end up producing an even greater imbalance between the centre and the periphery of the mountain territories, since it is in the valley floors that the most populous towns are located. This approach (which is a true local centralism, son of the centralism of which the whole norm is imbued) will have a very serious outcome, since it will add a fracture between the most populated centers and the small inhabitants of the high mountain to the already macroscopic distance existing between the center and the periphery of the country. The solution to this problem is fully achieved only by the provision of the procedure for election by universal and direct suffrage of both government bodies. The alternative solution, but only subject to the previous one, is to provide, through the statute, specific instruments able to improve the participation of the territories in the formation of the will of the new institution, for example by intervening on the weight of the votes of the electoral mayors, linking them to a plurality of parameters. Only by guaranteeing a true representation of the whole territory can its effective government be allowed, for the benefit of all. The weighting criteria for the metropolitan cities and also applied to the mountain provinces do not guarantee a true and complete representativeness of the territory within the latter. The majority of the population of the mountain provinces resides in a few main towns and municipal capitals. There is, therefore, the need to ensure greater importance also to the voting positions of the representatives of the less populous municipalities, which are, however, to administer - this is the theme - areas also very extensive of the provincial territory and bearers of strategic interests, for example in the primary and tertiary sectors. For the same purpose and for the same reasons, I believe that we must intervene on the values of the majorities provided for in the draft law, in particular for the approval of the budget at the assembly. The municipalities must vote in favour of at least half and not just one third, as in the current forecasts. It seems to me that this is essential. I begin with the conclusion, closing with a thought on the question of the functions to be attributed to the Province. The legal text under consideration provides for the mountain provinces to function as a "cure" for the strategic development of the territory. It is known, however, that the term "strategic development" should be interpreted as meaning "planning." It is clear that this is not enough. The governing body of the newly established vast area, which is called upon to govern a particularity recognised as that of the mountain, must have functions which allow concrete action and not merely dictate general guidelines. This is why the function of strategic development must be replaced by that of economic and social development. In conclusion, I merely reiterate the sure need to shake the confused content of this bill to make it truly an opportunity for reform. The principles of the specificity of the territories cannot only be proclaimed, with the risk of being denied then by the implementation of rules that appear distant from the real needs of change within the government of the local autonomy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, please. SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Allow me to say a few words, Madam President. It is true, as the rapporteur said at the outset, that the measure we are considering is not ordinary at all. Therefore, it would have been necessary to proceed more carefully in order to avoid a confused measure that increases costs and presents, among other things, substantial profiles of unconstitutionality. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Crosio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u65	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). President, but what is the point of the list that has been presented? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm following the list. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I don't care. Is it ever possible? If they have to go to dinner, go to dinner at 6 p.m. and come to the House at 7 p.m. to speak! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u66	Senator Council, since the work of the Commission took place this morning, not all the groups were able to register their senators and senators in good time. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] I was just answering. Then it's your turn to intervene. Thank you, Senator, for raising this issue because, in fact, there has been this problem. Please, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u67	Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote on this measure, trying to take some positive aspects of it and, of course, not avoiding the opportunity to point out some critical issues. Of course, what awaits us in the coming months must be a great and courageous path of reform of territorial autonomy and also of the peripheral organization of the State. One of the positive principles stated in this bill is, precisely, the codification of the mismatch of the peripheral organization of the State with respect to the organization of local territorial authorities. It was already in the premises, but the fact that it is included in the text is not bad. Another positive element is that, finally, after more than twenty years, we venture, with a bill, in the mechanism of the constitution of the metropolitan cities. In these twenty years there has been an obstructionism due to a lot of institutional corporateism on the path of the definition of the metropolitan cities. Not that it is finished, but now we are starting a path, and so we consider this bill as a break in the ice on the path of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which we believe to be the mother of all reforms, especially with regard to the possibility of reducing public spending in our country. In fact, the reform of Title V and its subsequent implementing laws will have to establish a path of simplification, both of the levels of government and of the functions between them, so that they are better defined and certainly with greater clarity in the interests of the citizens. Wanting to identify metropolitan cities today, in line with what is happening in Europe, means wanting to keep pace with the times, but it also means, as I said earlier, identifying precise functions of government levels. And it also means wanting, next to the metropolitan cities, to find a new model of vast area on the territory. A model that is more coherent with what is the need for territorial homogeneity of the vast areas and with what is the path of approach of the public administration to the needs of the citizens, to the efficiency of the services and, therefore, to the economicity of the same services. So, today we see a reform path starting. We are certainly not completely satisfied with this text. We have said this on a number of occasions during the debate in the Commission, and so also during the debate on this text, which has rightly been opened up in political terms. We believe that it is still pervaded by elements of conservatism absolutely to be overcome, such as the fact that there is no introduction of elements of flexibility in the determination of the new vast area. Let us justify this attitude by the fact that we are still waiting to be able to put our hand in constitutional reform. We would certainly have preferred, as we have said several times, that the constitutional reform had preceded this ordinary reform of revisitation of the mechanism of governance of the former Provinces; in fact, we believe that, in the end, this bill only identifies the overcoming of the Councils, the Provincial Councils, in the sense of direct election (which, among other things, we are convinced must always be taken into consideration), and that it is therefore limited to the elimination of a very marginal item of expenditure compared to the great items of expenditure linked to the overlapping of functions and the presence of a huge number of intermediate bodies in the public sector of our country, which must be absolutely eliminated, preferring the principle of simplification, but, above all, of greater responsibility of the institutional levels of government. We believe that the new Provinces - because this is the case, not the elimination of the Provinces - are an absolutely transitional mechanism and must be overcome, as I said earlier, as well as transitional rules on the aggregation of the Municipalities. We cannot interpret the aggregation of municipalities as the affirmation of a further level of intermediate government between municipalities and provinces and between regions and the state. We absolutely need to clear this jungle of institutions. Similarly, as far as metropolitan cities are concerned, we believe that, when we face the reform of Title V, we will have to go towards a different concept, even from a dimensional point of view. Surely in our country there are large metropolitan cities, which should be identified as metropolitan areas. From this point of view it will be inevitable to introduce the mechanism of direct democracy. Today this bill provides for the possibility that the statutes of the metropolitan cities can have a system of direct election of their metropolitan president or mayor, depending on what you want to call it. I believe that this possibility should later be transformed into ordinaryity, i.e. that this principle must be put in place, especially for the three major metropolitan areas of our country (Milan, Rome and Naples). It is also necessary to adapt to this principle also to a new concept of the dimensioning of territorial autonomy. We believe that in the twenty Regions of our country - in our opinion an excessive number - much of the public waste is spent and, therefore, the high cost that the Italian citizen supports compared to the citizens of other European countries. In fact, the competitiveness between systems does not only intervene from the point of view of tax legislation (which will certainly have to be adequate) or labour law legislation (which the Government is already putting into action), but also and above all from the point of view of the time that citizens and businesses commit to confront with a plethora of institutional levels that we consider absolutely excessive. Therefore, when we move on to the reform of Title V, we must certainly not overlook the concept of extending territorial autonomy. In the same way, it will be necessary to redesign a new vast area, which truly interprets the need to achieve synergies between Municipalities, in the services to be rendered to the citizen (unification of municipal offices, unification of offices dedicated to the fundamental functions of the Municipalities). We also do not overlook the opportunity, which can be presented by hand to the Constitution, to unify also the services of the Regions. I give an example for everyone, that of the health service, still fragmented into twenty systems, which often do not interact with each other; a service in which, as we know, we nest the vast amount of public spending of our country, which should instead be concentrated in a smaller number of areas linked more to concepts of economy of scale than to jealousy of administrative boundaries, as happens today. I repeat, we will vote in favour of this bill, while not hiding that it still has some criticalities due to a timidity in addressing the quality of the reform and the lack of that courage with which we should face in our country a true and profound reform of the system of autonomy and their relations with the State. A reform that we consider to be fundamental, even more so than the reform of the central institutions. The reform of the Senate itself must be a consequence of the reorganization of Title V of the Constitution and therefore the reorganization of regional policy in our country. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in reaffirming our position and the problems we have certainly highlighted in the course of the debate, some of which could also be blunted during the further examination of the draft law by the House, we hope that the rule will preserve, as it is in the premises and as reiterated in some amendments - for which I thank the rapporteur and the representative of the Government for their acceptance - an absolute transitory nature. For this reason, we have made a few attempts, certainly not dictated by mental reservations, but certainly dictated by good will, which, however, showed themselves as attempts to tighten up over time a system that we consider absolutely transitory and therefore believe must be quickly overcome. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u68	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u69	Madam President, I apologise and thank you. I also apologize to Senator D'Alì. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text approved by the House of Members cannot in any way be regarded as satisfactory: it is not satisfactory because in it we have not seen any strategic vision, no programming, no medium- and long-term perspective. Madam President, we have been in institutional chaos for at least two years, which has caused serious damage to citizens, who have seen only and exclusively cuts in resources transferred and destined to school, roads, training, transport, soil protection, and above all, Mr President, in a moment of extraordinary economic and financial crisis, cuts in employment and work, also because of the rules that tend to empty the provincial institutions. The object of this measure are the Provinces, the Municipalities, their unions and mergers, the municipal bodies, the gender representation in the Juntas (but not for all), the incompatibility (but not for all), the third mandate (but also this not for all), the metropolitan cities (but not all), that no one has yet understood how much they will cost and especially what they will serve. There is great confusion: yes, Madam President, it will be for everyone. The measure will be the subject of legal proceedings by different regions and, despite the Constitutional Court, this will be the subject of huge and long disputes. There are inconsistencies, confusions and overlaps of organisms: all the opposite of what is being flagged, since there has been talk of reordering, simplification and rationalization. Of course, Madam President, the political debate has loudly called for the abolition of the Provinces, which has been sold as panacea, the panacea of all evils both for the organization of the State and even for economics. The savings have been calculated in about EUR 15 billion: I hope they have not been posted anywhere else or perhaps to lower the debt. There have been phrases with effect, Madam President, great media campaigns and great historical battles on the part of many politicians, who should have worked in a serious analysis, in equally serious reflection, in a serious search for possible solutions. But there was none of this: only a spongy blow and a wrong economic calculation, I would say very wrong, that does not take into account the fact that the Provinces and the Municipalities are the bodies that have seen the expenditure grow only by 3.4%, in perfect line with inflation. Public expenditure is around 815 billion, on which the Provinces, all virtuous and not, affect only and exclusively 1.5%: one of the lowest figures in Europe as a whole. The Provinces run 84 percent of the national road network, 5,000 school buildings, 2,660 school gyms, 600 employment centers, and I'm leaving out everything else. So, Madam President, it is quite clear that canceling the Provinces would certainly not eliminate these expenses. Expenditure of which - it is very clear - other bodies should take full responsibility. The only saving would be the political cost of administrators: a clearly irrelevant cost compared to national policy spending. On savings, Madam President, I would like to remind you that a Provincial Council and the entire Junta cost far less than the elected Members of Parliament in the same Province. Not to mention the relationship a provincial councillor or the president has with the territory. Of course, Madam President, it is also unacceptable that it should be spread over all the Provinces: some do not work at all; many do not work well, but many others do work well, and that is why we had to pay the greatest attention; these positive experiences had to be relied on, these had to be given a serious fiscal federalism and the revision of the single text on the ordering of local self-governments. This was the great opportunity to reform and make our system more efficient and in general this state. With this system then you can measure the capacity of the political class, enhancing the reality and capabilities of the efficient bodies, rewarding the virtuous ones. I can recall, Madam President, that the Province of Bergamo costs every citizen a coffee a year in politics, and it cannot be wiped out with a sponge, as it is happening. I am terrified, Madam President, that yet another typical Italian mess is being combined: it is said that we want to save money by cutting public spending, and with this bill we do not abolish the Provinces, but only the provincial elections and the elected posts, that is those institutions and those figures chosen by the citizens with the democratic instrument of voting. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This is history: between 1925 and 1928, in addition to a special order for the city of Rome - by chance - the political and above all bureaucratic powers of the prefects were increased, thus giving greater prominence to the Province as a district of state decentralisation rather than as an autonomous and representative body of the local community. Madam President, here we are again: a leap backwards by almost a hundred years, and we know how it ended. My compliments to the government: we needed this extremely much. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u70	I would like to inform the House, after all the groups have been informed, that this evening's sitting will end at the end of the general debate and that the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government will be postponed until tomorrow morning to allow the 5th Commission to examine all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u71	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u72	Madam President, what we have before us is a recurring issue in recent years and is always addressed from a point of view, in my view, absolutely wrong. It is not how much the organization of the State weighs, but how much the organization of the State, the State itself, corresponds to the needs and values of the people who support it. Article 1 of our Constitution recalls the main features of our state organization. The state we have is in republican form; it is a democratic state, so the people exercise sovereignty in a direct or indirect way; and it is a Republic founded on work, or on the active participation of citizens in the economic and social progress of their country. I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that a number of Ministers for institutional reform have succeeded in recent decades. One is now Vice President of the Senate, but others have also exercised this role: the President of the Commission for Community Policies has been a Minister for institutional reforms of this country. Over the past twenty years, we have discussed how best to respond to the needs of our country's development through adequate institutional architecture. And so much has been discussed that even this provision the only thing it does is leave things as they are. I continue to say that I am surprised, punctually, when someone comes to this House, or when it is generally discussed, and particularly significant adjectives are used: "historic" is a step of an essential reform, and instead they leave things exactly as they are. What do we have in this provision? The metropolitan cities? Metropolitan cities already exist in the current order. The Municipal Unions? The Unions of Municipalities already exist in the current order. The Provinces? The Provinces already exist, and so much so that we wanted to eliminate them because they are considered useless bodies, and instead we confirm them. I remember that the Monti Government, the one that you voted for and supported you, in one of the most revolutionary measures that Italian legislation remembers, had proposed to us the elimination of the Provinces, with a decree, pretending - and thank goodness that it was a Government of professors - that there were no constitutional constraints. Now I do not remember if there were ten provincial councillors who had to set up the provincial council, in order to continue to exercise a function that was all transformed into a sort of great coordination of the activities of the local territorial authorities, that is, the municipalities. So we are once again faced with a measure that has no ideas, which does not solve the problem of costs because it is really little the intervention that does on this front. On the contrary, if we did a more in-depth analysis, we would discover that this system perhaps brings some extra cost, transfers it, and does not solve the problem of the relationship between the citizen and the State, the relationship that the citizen suffers the most, that of a suffocating bureaucracy, of a multiplication of passages, of a decision distributed in several subjects, of a total uncertainty of the law. The other operation that it carries out, leaving things as they are, is to continue on a path that has been launched in recent years and which is increasingly consolidated, namely the reduction of the spaces of democracy. Democracy is the government of the people: mowing at the base the direct participation of the people in the government of their territory, mowing at the root the principle on which our Republic is founded, which is democratic. It is not an authoritarian and centralist republic. It is not a Republic that is founded on the Ministries. It is not a Republic expression of a President of the Council. It's not a leading republic. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna]] It is a democratic Republic and is based on the sovereignty of the people. The result is that this very principle is attacked, in this and in other measures. The principle of democracy is being attacked. When a mayor governs the country, one should remember that the main point of attack of democratic development is precisely what enhances the direct participation of citizens in the government of their territory, the issues that most directly involve their condition of life. Therefore, with a further decree, with a further undemocratic path, discussed and deepened, we cannot proceed to fake reforms. We have the clear feeling - I say this because to someone perhaps escapes - that the country has a particular attitude of these times to destroy. The most important thing is the elimination of institutions, functions, quality of participation, discussion and forums of comparison. The problem of elimination arises: the problem of construction is not raised. The problem of construction does not arise with regard to a different, more balanced and more just idea of development. The problem of the development of a more advanced civilization is not raised. There is no question of the most complete relations between the different levels of responsibility. The problem of construction is not raised. It is for this - and I have concluded - that here lies the limit of the measure under consideration. It is a measure that does not change anything, but affects the principles of democracy on which our Republic is founded. It does not draw another system, another order on which our economy can be developed more civilly. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u73	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u74	Madam President, it has been reiterated until this afternoon that the Senate Act No 1212 pursues efficiency and rationalization objectives, but they seem to be largely ignored. In government planning there is a design, but it seems cumbersome, unnecessarily complicated, at times contradictory and, above all, the necessary reordering of structures and competences remains bound to the approval of a constitutional bill for the elimination of the Provinces. But we only have one draft of this government bill, and nothing has yet been deposited in the Senate. Conversely, a constitutional bill on the abolition of Provinces and provisions for the allocation of resources made available for the financing of works for the safety of school buildings, No. 1373 to be exact, was communicated to the Presidency on 11 March and was presented by the 5 Star Movement. A bill for which we have requested the immediate timetable (declared by the President, in our opinion improperly, inadmissible) and for which we reserve the right to request urgent procedure. As we have already pointed out in our preliminary ruling, there are many doubts about the order confusion and the extreme complexity of the reordering mechanism. As we enter a little more into the subject, for what are the parts of my competence, also the aspects that concern cultural matter appear in our own way to see emblematic of a sailing under coast without having clearly defined the course to follow. In the text under consideration, in fact, one of the administrative functions of provincial interest that is expected to be abolished is the valorization of cultural goods, but it is not specified to whom these functions would go, if removed from the Provinces because deleted. And this adds concern to a long series of concerns, given the conditions under which our cultural sector falls. In addition, the Government's text provides for a provincial programming of the school network in compliance with regional programming: a clear symptom of that Matrioska syndrome or, if you prefer, Chinese boxes of which the system of local authorities in our country is afflicted. I conclude: the only road that can be pursued therefore seems to us to address the problem at the root and to proceed as soon as possible - as we have repeatedly said - with the approval of a constitutional bill that provides for the abolition of the Provinces and that consequently is able to redefine, with criteria and criteria of simplification and rationalization of the expenditure, the very architecture of the local authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u75	We greet the students and students of the Classical High School of San Giovanni in Fiore, in the province of Cosenza. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the elocution so far heard, in the numerous comments that have appeared in the press to date, from the largest national newspapers to the smallest newspaper in the province, it has emerged not only a favourable element on the draft law under discussion. If anything, it highlights the sidereal distance between the cultural options and the political cultures of the country and Parliament. Of course, we cannot achieve unanimity, but certainly we could have tended and aspired unanimously. It is not utopia or the search for happiness, Madam President, what I am hoping for: a design so marked by the change of the nation's institutional architectures, in fact, would have deserved and deserved greater compactness, more convergence and optimism of shared choices, which would consequently have had in civil society the function of catalysts of positive processes. And God only knows how much to our homeland, in the widest European beehive, the proactive and proactive actions serve and are useful to try all together, each in his role, to climb up the slope, to overcome the slope of resignation and political and civil defeat. On the Provinces and on the metropolitan areas the divisions are pernicious, confer little dignity to the legislative act and, indeed, affect the moral value of a legislative process with sound principles, but with uncertain and divisive results that displease citizens, users, Italians, and all those who, dwelling and operating on the territories, make themselves daily protagonists of the distracted living in the province, although the Italian province has represented and continues to represent a virtuous model of productivity, all italic format of balance of powers, interests and legitimate ambitions. Literature is full of it, statistics are evidence of it, entrepreneurs and their industrial districts are responsible for it. A substantial impoverishment, therefore, will derive, for Italy and the Italians, from the abolition of the Province canon and the artificial introduction of the metropolitan cities, without any reasonable certainty that all this will generate benefits, advantages to the public coffers, fluidization of processes that, indeed, will be surfaced of albeit legitimate dreams of administrative simplifications. It would have been enough, therefore, to better articulate the number of representatives elected by the people, it would have been useful to listen to the voice of the citizens consulting them on the value of the local autonomy live. It would have been useful to redesign the functions of the Provinces by broadening some competences, see intercommunal road, local school planning and environmental protection, and by compressing or abolishing altogether the council members to tourism, entertainment, agriculture, aquaculture, real duplications of roles already assumed and carried out by the Municipalities in concert with the Regions. It would have been indispensable to promote the good practices of the vast areas, striving to identify homogeneous areas of towns and communities united by singular vocations and productive traditions. It would have been enough to legislate on the Unions of Municipalities to encourage the sharing of services on the vast territory and of proximity, starting from the security and the urban police, from the municipal technical offices to the local tax services. Gentlemen senators and senators, so that how much we are about to adopt is really useful to the country let's not create a pateracchio, to say it in the words of Senator D'Anna, a focomelic creature who will lack the arts. Let's think again about the usefulness of the Provinces, let's just try to modify them and to keep them up with the times, not in step with fashion, because otherwise we would have created another monster of demagogy, and this bill, senators, is an ooze of demagogy. I tried to speak, ladies and gentlemen, with my heart in hand, as a former administrator who, for ten years, held the fate of a Apulian community, like hundreds and thousands of the first Italian citizens, to whom the solidarity of the Senate and Forza Italia goes, in particular, also because on the head of the mayors and municipal and provincial councils the destinies of the territories are changing. Demagogy will hurt the flagship nouvelle vague of this Government, limiting its self-styled innovative thrust. Therefore, this bill will not receive our accession for the sole reason that it introduces clear destabilizing elements that at the moment Italy and the Italians do not deserve. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u79	Madam President, let me just point out that the microphone in our station has been in maintenance for a month. First of all, I would like to begin, if I may, with a non-formal thank you to the two rapporteurs. The rapporteur, Luciano Pizzetti, who then left to take on the role of Undersecretary, and my colleague, Francesco Russo, have done an important and significant job, like the whole Commission. In fact, many amendments have been accepted by the rapporteurs, which have significantly improved the initial structure of the text, which began its process in a climate of widespread hostility of public opinion towards the provincial institution, instrumentally pointed out by many as a model of an unnecessary body by itself. We have also had proof of this today in the Senate Chamber: in the preliminary question presented today by the 5 Star Movement Group, we were talking about 29,000 elected in the Province. I would point out that there are 110 Provinces and that the average number of councillors is 30 (I also leave it to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement to make a simple multiplication). There has been talk of offices, staff, cars, as if the provincial councillors had blue cars. There has been talk of emoluments meaning reimbursements expenses, but I inform you, Senator Endrizzi, that the only reimbursement expenses that a provincial councillor is responsible for the use of the car, if he uses it, on the way between the residence and the seat of the Province and for years the law provides that it is equal to a fifth of the price of gasoline. Let us therefore try to remain in the real things. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Thanks for confirming that. Mr Fornaro (PD). However, it is necessary to clarify once and for all: the elimination of the Provinces will not produce in the short term the positive effects of savings so emphasized in the recent past. There were those who came to talk about billions of euros of savings in case of closure of the Provinces, confusing the entire expenditure, which is about 10.2 billion, with as many realistically impossible cuts of services and functions (roads, high schools). The costs of the political bodies, as has been mentioned by several colleagues, amount to about 105 million euros, out of the total mentioned of 10.2 billion euros, with a cost per capita at the Italian level that is 1.31 euros, against for example the 13,95 of the Regions. The Court of Auditors estimates an initial saving of up to EUR 100-150 million, while at the same time fearing the risk of an increase in the short term. The transformation of the Provinces into a kind of maxiconsortium of Municipalities presents aspects of critical management all to verify. The choice of second-degree election, which is not easy to apply in practice, will also be to be verified, especially in Provinces with a large number of municipalities. Equally complex will be the application of the metropolitan cities, which presents critical elements for the excessive territorial dimension of some, which goes well beyond the original concept of the metropolitan area (I quote for all the Province of Turin, which becomes a metropolitan area with 315 municipalities, while the old narrow metropolitan area was 52 municipalities). However, we appreciate the willingness expressed in this House by the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, to address in a more organic way the question of the competences of the Provinces in the broader reform project of Title V. There is a central theme, as Mrs Lanzillotta pointed out in her speech, which is the theme of broad-area policies. It is an inescapable issue, beyond the labels that we would like to give the institutions. Think of important issues, such as waste cycle management and local public transport. The challenge for us, therefore, is not to delete the Provinces with a pen from the Constitution and with it more than 150 years of history and territorial ties. The challenge that starts with this bill and the constitutional one of the Senate and the reform of Title V must be more ambitious: to reform the state. It would be funny if the Provinces were to be wiped out today and all the organs of the state administration continued to be shaped on the basis of the old provincial borders. The real savings can start from a reorder of the Provinces, and it is precisely to make the machine of the State lose weight; otherwise we would find ourselves in the middle of the Italian-style cattopardism. A word also deserves the employees of the Provinces (over 60,000, as has already been mentioned). However, I would like to say here, even from my own experience, that they are not just numbers. There are in these organizations professionalism, skills and civil passion that you cannot and must not lose. Finally, the draft law under consideration contains important innovations in relation to small municipalities. Allow me to say that, with the increase in the number of municipal councillors in the municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants and with the return of the Joints to the municipalities below 1,000 inhabitants, a real democratic wound was healed that had been carried out in 2011 when, in triumphal tone, at the press conference, the then Minister Calderoli announced the cutting of tens of thousands of armchairs (54,000 to be precise), forgetting the role of substantial volunteering played by the municipal councillors of the small municipalities, who were offended and humiliated by those statements. Please do not come now - from the same people who announced non-existent savings with the closure of the Provinces - to talk about increasing the costs of politics. I had fun making a simple calculation: all the municipal councillors of the hundreds of municipalities under the 5,000 inhabitants of my Region, Piedmont, (1.072 to be precise), cost the taxpayer, when they perceive and do not give up the token of presence, like a couple of commissioners of any authority (you also choose 'authority). Ultimately, the territory, with its history and landscape, represents the strength and pride of our country. They are goods that must be defended and valued, as we are saying in several locations and, I believe, also in a strongly unified way. In order to do all this, however, it is essential to continue to have democratic garrisons, represented by our small municipalities, administrations that must certainly be helped to integrate the fundamental services and to work together with associated managements, but that represent an irreplaceable bulwark against the degradation and abandonment of marginal areas. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u80	The general debate is closed. As I have already told the House, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government will take place at tomorrow's afternoon sitting. Therefore, I would refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts before us to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u83	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask for the statement of urgency on the draft constitutional law No 1373, which I signed first, concerning the abolition of the Provinces. In order to prevent any possible objection, given the objections previously raised to the request by my colleague, Mr President of my Group, concerning Article 72 of the Constitution on normal procedures and urgent procedures, I would point out that this would also be an urgent procedure and could be treated in the same way. I remember, however, that in August the urgency was voted on a draft electoral law, and I recall that this article of the Constitution concerns both constitutional and electoral laws and, precisely, the Italicum in the House was approved by non-normal procedures and, therefore, also in that case in open violation of that rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u84	Senator Crimes, your request, according to what has been said, has time to get to the Commission and follow the urgency procedure. The Presidency takes note of the request and, consequently, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting is supplemented by the debate on the urgent motion for a resolution of draft constitutional law No 1373, of which I shall be reading at the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u87	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak under Rule 92 on a point of order in the Senate. Rule 13 of our Rules of Procedure states that: Senators called to be part of the Government shall cease from the office of the Presidency Council. As you know, on 28 February 2014, two Senate Secretaries, Senator Gentile and Senator Pizzetti (who was here today, in the Chamber), were appointed Undersecretaries of State, one to infrastructure and one to relations with Parliament and reforms. It is therefore clear from the regulatory point of view that the two positions in the Senate Presidency have ceased immediately, since two Secretary Senators have joined the Executive. Therefore, after a month of unlawful coverage of the positions in the Presidency Council, we ask you, Madam President, to observe the Rules of Procedure, by ensuring the immediate solution of the obvious objective and subjective incompatibility referred to above, clearly prescribed in Article 13 of the basic text of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u88	It will be absolutely my duty to enforce the Rules of Procedure in all its parts, including this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u91	BATTIST (Mixed). Madam President, have I taken back what appeared on Facebook on March 20: "Yesterday evening after the usual long day of work, do I decide to go out to eat a pizza with our friend Vincenzo Caso, first pizzeria where we try to enter in front of us a "beautiful" table of ""# No moreMovimentists, @Campanella, @Bocchino, @Casaletto, @Bignami, @Battista and so far, who cares, but looking well the table here is that I know two Senators who still declare themselves ""# Movement5stelle, @Cotti and @Pepe, rush route we change pizzeria, we find another, luckily "disinfested" we finish our pizza with beer and we go out to make a tour, we turn the corner and here they all, except @pepe, all joyful and cheerful as they were on a school trip, yes, but with our lucky, we are going to find ourselves, we have decided to make a short change of the way, we would not to look at all the way, then we would be there would be able to look at the way, we would be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to visit. Some people think that there's nothing wrong with a dinner between old friends, well I'll tell you that ALL these subjects are everything but friends of MY country, they have chosen with a pathetic excuse the vile money instead of the sacrifice for the common good. ♪ Let's win ♪ To bee continued (written with two "e" and "e" but maybe it's a typo). I think everyone describes himself for what he says and especially for how he says it. This is the comment of the honourable citizen Alessandro Battaglia, who - if I am not mistaken - is a member of the cabinet of the Bottici commissioner. At this point, I wonder whether the Bureau believes that an employee of its own, who is also paid for with public money, can express himself in this way and in this way towards the representatives of the institutions. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u94	CUCCA (PD). Madam President, three days ago on the SS131, which is the main artery of Sardinia, the one that connects the North with the South (in Sardinia there are no highways, but a four-lane road called the freeway), a commando of ten men, armed to the teeth with kalashnikov rifles, has scored a millionaire robbery to the detriment of a value truck that was to deliver the money of the Bank of Italy to the post offices of the Province of Nuoro. Following this criminal gesture, during which many shots of Kalashnikov were fired, which saw the use of at least five vehicles, the highway 131, which as I said is the main artery of Sardinia, has been cut in two, with all that it entails for the whole Region and its vehicular traffic. This has happened because for several years already on the state road 131 are cantierati of the intense activities, that but they never come to term, and therefore you travel to single lane, with a slowing down, for a stretch of the road, about 10 kilometers long. If the work had been completed in time, this blow could not have been carried out. Two serious elements emerge from this affair. The first is certainly the state in which the main artery of Sardinia is placed, the state of 131 Carlo Felice. The actions of all social and political partners and trade associations have proved absolutely useless: that road has now become a permanent construction site, which never ends. Just any event out of the ordinary to cut Sardinia in two and block the traffic that from Sassari leads to the capital of the Region, Cagliari. Of course, if the work had been completed in the time, which had been widely planned, if the work had really been sung and performed, all this would not have happened. There is, however, another aspect that is worrying, given that there has been a time of great difficulty in public order and in the security of citizens. The criminal event therefore recalls the fact that, following the spending review, several garrisons, in particular the Police, are intended to close in Sardinia to guarantee the safety of citizens. The ax that blindly cuts these garrisons is hurled against important stations of the Police, from the postal one to the road one, which could certainly intervene in situations similar to this one, from the nautical one to the groups of divers. This rationalization of spending is understood as an optimization of public spending, but we must point out that these cuts are among the worst disinvestments that can be made in territories such as Sardinia, in which the increase of crimes against the person, especially in recent times, requires availability and presence of specialized forces, able to operate in the sectors not accessible to ordinary forces. Therefore, the hope is that the works on the state road 131 will be put to an end, finally bringing them to a conclusion and reactivate the ordinary circulation in that stretch of road, and that the Government will review its determination, avoiding closing the police headquarters that, as said, are really important for the territory of Sardinia. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u95	Senator Cucca, we'll let the government representatives know.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-216.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 26 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.10 a.m.
