ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u4	Colleagues, it is sad to have to do this, however, after what we did yesterday for what happened in Liguria, in particular in Genoa, it is necessary a moment of reflection and recollection today, unfortunately, for what happened in Tuscany. The Presidency has taken action to ensure that the minister responsible comes to report as soon as possible. I would ask Members to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] Personally - it is an invitation to colleagues - when there are such occasions, the least of the attention is to turn off or put the mobile phone in silent mode, because the rings that are heard in the moment of recollection are really inconvenient.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1637 already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Cociancich and Susta, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cociancich.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to refer to the part of this measure which deals with matters falling within the competence of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Chapter II contains urgent provisions on international protection and, in particular, amends the legislative decree implementing the so-called Refugee Status Procedures Directive. The territorial committees for the recognition of international protection have increased from ten to twenty and it is expected that, for the whole territory, they will be set up to a maximum of thirty. New provisions have been introduced in the Chamber of Deputies to establish that, in each territorial committee, the functions of section president, in the event of exceptional increases in applications, are carried out exclusively. It is also expected that the committees will operate independently of judgement and evaluation. In addition, new provisions have been added concerning both the competence of the committees and the possibility of carrying out the examination of applications with the help of bodies and bodies for the protection of human rights at international level. In addition, specific refresher courses, organised by the International Commission, have been planned for the training of committee members. Article 6 identifies additional resources to address the reception of asylum seekers and the exceptional influx of immigrants on national territory. Following an amendment introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, the Ministry of the Interior will have the obligation to send to the competent parliamentary committees, by 30 June 2015, a report on the distribution of the fund specifically established to meet the extraordinary needs related to the exceptional influx of foreigners on the national territory. The Ministry will also have to report annually, always by 30 June, on the activity carried out and on the functioning of the reception system. Article 7 provides that the Sicilian municipalities affected by the migratory pressure may, within certain limits, exclude from the expenditure relevant to compliance with the Internal Stability Pact those incurred to cope with the exceptional migratory flow in place. Chapter III contains urgent provisions to ensure the functionality of the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, Article 8 allocates resources for the modernization of the means available to the State Police and Fire Departments, as well as for the purchase of vehicles and equipment and for extraordinary maintenance operations. With an amendment approved by the contact person, it was proposed to test the electric gun, the so-called Taser, for the performance of the tasks of the public security administration and the police, to be carried out by a decree of the Minister of the Interior, after agreement with the Minister of Health. In addition, it was decided to allocate cars owned by other administrations to the police authorities, subject to an assessment of the economic viability of the operation. Article 9 provides for the establishment of a central commission, at the Ministry of the Interior, with advisory functions in the field of explosive substances, and of technical commissions at territorial level. With an amendment introduced in the Chamber of Deputies, it was pointed out that these committees also have powers to issue authorisations for the manufacture, collection, trade, storage and repair of weapons. Finally, Chapter IV of the Decree-Law contains the final provisions. In particular, Article 10 provides for the quantification of the costs incurred by the measure and its financial cover, while Article 11 provides for the entry into force of the Decree-Law. With this, Mr President, I have completed the report on the part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I leave the floor to Senator Susta, who intends to speak, with his consent, on the part of the Commission on Justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u7	Mr President, as Senator Cociancich has just said, Chapter I of the Decree-Law affixes to the powers of the Justice Commission. First of all, there is an amendment to the sanctioning system brought about by Article 1 of Law No 401 of 13 December 1989 for the conduct of fraud in sporting competitions. The original sentence of imprisonment from one month to one year, with fine from € 258 to € 1.032, has definitely increased and becomes that of imprisonment from two to six years and fine from € 1,000 to € 4,000. It should also be pointed out that reference is made to the small cases for which the sanctioning response was first limited to the penalty of the fine alone. The letter b) of paragraph 1 of Article 1, also not amended in the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, introduces an amendment to paragraph 3 of the article mentioned above of law n. 401 of 1989, establishing a further penalty tightening for the case in which sports fraud achieves the effective influence of the result of the sport competition on competitions with prizes based on predictions. The whole of Article 1 of the Decree therefore aims to offer a more effective and discouraging threat of criminal sanctions than fraud in the sporting field, which have now taken on particular connotations of social alarm. Article 2 of the Decree-Law has been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. The original approach contains provisions on the prohibition of access to places where sporting events take place and introduces new criminal offences for which access to those places could be prevented. In addition, the ban is also extended to those who, on the basis of facts, appear to have held - even abroad - a conduct, both individual and within groups, aimed at active participation in episodes of violence, threat or intimidation such as to endanger public security or to create disturbance to public order. The inclusion of further periods in paragraph 5 of the same Article 6 of Law No 401 of 1989 is also intended to establish a longer period of the injunction in the event of group conduct and in respect of those who take the lead of such violent groups. Finally, a particular punitive sanction is also provided for those who have already received the prohibition of access. Finally, the inclusion of a paragraph 8-a in the same article 6 of the law cited several times is functional to guarantee to the interested party the possibility to request the termination of the further injurious effects deriving from the application of the same prohibition, once they have expired three years from its termination. Now, the whole of the changes introduced by the Chamber of Deputies on the text of Article 2 of the Decree-Law essentially concerns three profiles. Firstly, the adverb has been introduced, clearly, to try to better determine the purpose of the individual's participation in acts of violence and thus to specify the course of action for which the prohibition measure can be applied. Secondly, it has been decided to include a framework aimed at identifying the competence to dispose of the prohibition of access for events committed abroad. Third, it is permitted in the validation judgment that the court for preliminary investigations may amend the requirements of paragraph 2. The framework completes the further tightening of sanctions in the event of a violation of the prohibition which, in such circumstances, can be extended up to eight years. I now come to Article 3, which aims to introduce new provisions on facilitations for those to whom the prohibition measures have just been mentioned. The provisions introduced by Article 3 also provide for additional requirements for competition organisers with regard to football. In general, the whole article tends to widen the prerequisites for sanctioning responses, alongside the conducts of introduction and display of banners and signs also that of exhibitions of writings or images and also introducing the relevance of crimes in the matter of counterfeiting of products or abusive sales of the same. The general ratio of the article tends to widen the consequences of such illegal conduct in the field of sports activities. In fact, there is a prohibition on entering into contracts with the persons to whom the injunctions are addressed. This is a significant novelty because it constitutes a further limit to contractual autonomy which could prove to be particularly effective in the repression of illegal, dangerous and anti-social conduct which is all too often witnessed in competitive competitions. In the same perspective it can be understood the changes made by the Decree-Law to Article 9 of Decree-Law No 8 of 2007, in such a way as to considerably widen the recipients of the prohibitions on the issue, sale or distribution of titles of access to the places where the aforementioned sporting events take place. I briefly take account of the changes made to Article 3 during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, in which a rule has been introduced which excludes the application of paragraphs 3-a and 3-b of the 2007 framework to children under fourteen years of age. In addition, a rule was adopted setting a limit on the allocation of the quota not less than 1% and not more than 3% of the revenue from the sale of tickets, the financing of expenditure incurred for the maintenance of security and public order at the events and, in particular, to cover the costs of overtime and public order allowances to be paid to the police forces in service. The modalities, criteria and deadlines for implementation of this contribution will be laid down by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, adopted on the initiative of the Minister of the Interior. It highlights the determination of the percentage of the contribution intended to maintain the safety and the payment of the performance of police personnel, taking into account the different professional level of the companies organising the events. With regard to the competences of the Commission Justice, it now points out the last article concerning further measures to combat the phenomena of violence in sporting competitions. The whole of the measures introduced by Article 4, in the order, are aimed at: introducing a new case of prohibition of travel, which can be arranged by the Minister of the Interior; the extension of the cases of prohibition also to persons who, due to their behaviour, must be considered, also on the basis of participation on several occasions in the same demonstrations, as subjects dedicated to the commission of crimes that endanger the order, safety and safety of persons. As regards the latter case, it should be pointed out that this is a form of presumption which corresponds to the combination of sanctioned preventive measures. Moreover, the introduction of a paragraph 5 -ter to the discipline of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 28 of 2003, provides rules aimed at the adaptation of the plants necessary for their redevelopment, as well as the segmentation of the sectors and the removal of barriers, even experimentally, in implementation of the obligations imposed by the competent football organizations, also international. In this regard - and I shall conclude - the Chamber of Deputies has approved limited amendments to the text of the emergency measure, providing that new contributions made directly or indirectly by the State and other public bodies may be allocated to the fund referred to in paragraph 13 of Article 90 of the Financial Act for the year 2003. Finally, it is clear that in the course of the examination of the Commissions, no amendments were adopted to amend the text of the Decree-Law in conversion. However, the examination was carried out in depth and covered a large number of agendas, which were partly accepted by the Government. The same Commissions also focused on specific aspects relating to the changes to the system of preventive measures contained in Law No 401 of 1989. With reference to article 4, paragraph 2, there is an alleged case with regard to persons who, due to their behaviour - must be considered - also on the basis of participation on several occasions at the same events, or the repeated application to them of the prohibition provided for in Article 6 of Law No 401 of 1989, are committed to the commission of crimes that endanger the order and public safety, or the safety of persons on the occasion or because of the conduct of sporting events. In this respect, the debate on the criminal cases of pure suspicion has been re-enacted; however - and I shall end really - it must be remembered that these are not criminal sanctions, but mere preventive measures of an interdictive nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u8	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Gasparri to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, our Group has tabled a preliminary question on the decree under discussion, particularly with regard to the heterogeneity of the subjects covered by it. I would like to remind my fellow senators here that some time ago, on the occasion of one of the many economic decrees, we had to amend, correct and purify a text - I think it was one of the so-called rescue measures in Rome - from a series of rules which were considered extraneous to the measure. The question also led to a debate in this Chamber, as the various leaders will recall (and also President Zanda, who on this point I would like to follow our debate), to the point that, in order to respect the call on the need to maintain a homogeneity of matter in the decree, the extrapolated rules, which were indeed of various kinds, were included in a bill which exceptionally, on the basis of an agreement between all the groups, was approved by the Budget Committee in the deliberating session. This is precisely because we took note of the observations on the heterogeneity of the rules which, even through amendments, had ended up in that decree. However, considering the Senate to be important, we approved these rules in a deliberative way. Needless to say, that bill died in the House of Deputies, because the other branch of Parliament, having not had the same opinion, covered up the bill. Therefore the Senate, which respected the references on the homogeneity of matter, expounded the foreign norms and approved the text in the deliberating forum, therefore with the unanimous consent of all the Groups of majority and opposition, then saw the cover-up of this bill. I say this because, in this case, we allow a clear heterogeneity of subjects. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, raised the matter with a letter that I have allowed myself to send to the President of the Republic, Supreme Supervisor and Guardian in the matter of decree-laws (since these cannot come to life if there is no endorsement). I have received a very bureaucratic reply, according to which this decree would still be homogeneous, because the subjects dealt with refer to the Ministry of the Interior, here authoritatively represented by Deputy Minister Bubbico. Of course, the answer to that letter concludes that Parliament ultimately decides. Therefore, it is a formally correct attitude that of the Presidency of the Republic. Therefore, we present a preliminary question because this is the place where the heterogeneity of matter emerges. And on what point in particular do we believe that this heterogeneity emerges in our resolution? On the very topical issue of the so-called Mare nostrum operation. This is a decree against violence in the stadiums. I am not going to go into the matter, because Members who will speak in general debate will do so and we will do so in the course of explanations of vote. This decree, however, contains a series of measures, to a large extent even sensible, inspired by the concern for the violence that, at times, accompanies and precedes the sporting event (sometimes even outside and far from the stadiums, but in connection with sporting events) and the very serious acts of violence that occur. The measure was also born as a result of the events that took place in Rome a few months ago and that are still the subject of judicial inquiry, investigations and investigations of liability. Therefore, it is absolutely right to issue this decree, and I do not want to go into the matter. Within this decree, however, is inserted the refinancing of 62 million of the Mare nostrum operation. What does it have to do with the emergency of violence in the stadiums, the financing of an operation, moreover wrong and high, of entering illegal immigrants in our country? It's got nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Maybe you need to take them to the stadium, Deputy Minister Bubbico? What's the connection? EUR 62 million is a significant figure. In addition, this decree, with the postponement to a series of circulars, opens the way and strengthens other financing measures: I refer to the famous 30 euros per day to be given to foreigners. I do not dwell on the detail, but, even if this forecast is not explicitly contained in the decree, it refers to the circulars that the Ministry of the Interior issues for the conventions with the centers that provide for the reception (often also hotels and structures of various kinds) and to the consequent expenses that Mare nostrum entails. I take this matter also because in other places, when there was the decree on military missions, the temptation of the Government emerged to include the financing of Mare nostrum because, in fact, being engaged the Navy in the waters of the Mediterranean, it was believed there was a connection. The Group of Forza Italia opposed this choice in advance and the Government did not insert the refinancing of Mare nostrum in the decree on military missions which, moreover, traditionally, collects, in the periodic renewal of missions, a broad consensus that goes beyond the borders of the momentary majorities. Perhaps also because of this the government did not insert the refinancing of Mare nostrum in that decree. He put it, however, in this which, yes, concerns the Ministry of the Interior, but then it is an omnibus decree. And then I say to the Senate of the Republic, to the Government and to those who oversee the decrees that we are faced with a clear violation of the principle homogeneous matter of the decrees, recalled in so many acts of the Presidency of the Republic with letters sent to Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] The assessment of the homogeneity or otherwise of the decrees cannot be entrusted to chance or referee because then everything is emergency in this country. We have just mentioned the natural disasters that have struck so many parts of Italy; indeed, those with necessity and urgency impose on all of us acts, decisions, interventions and appropriations. We wish to challenge the way in which action is taken, which involves the incorporation of absolutely different subjects. Certainly, then, on Mare nostrum we also have some reservations of merit. I want to say to the government, which is so propaganda because now there will be Frontex plus, Triton and more: we will see how it works! When thousands of illegals land again on our shores, we will see that the name changes, but it does not change the policy of total surrender to any flow of illegal immigrants. I call on the government, with realism, to read today's press news: only 8 countries of the European Union, which has 28 members, adhere to these new alleged operations. Germany, perhaps because it is in recession, does not intervene and does not participate. So when in a few days we will see to land in Sicily, in Reggio Calabria, in Salerno or elsewhere thousands of illegals we will see that the name changes, but the substance does not change. This is a matter of merit with regard to Mare nostrum, which we consider to be a sensible operation. Other and wiser policies were pursued by other governments: policies of bilateral agreements to prevent departures. Others should also be the UN's commitments to distinguish refugees fleeing from wars from illegal flows. This decree, it is good that it is also known outside of this Palace, in fact, involves a sanatoria of operation Mare nostrum, the entry of thousands and thousands of illegals - the figures are known, more than 100,000 - and a disbursement of 62 million euros (we will see how many others they will need in the coming months). So it is not true that we are talking only about violence in the stadiums, or around the stadiums, which must be eradicated, fought and cut off. I repeat: I do not go into the substance of the other parts of the decree either because this is an intervention on a preliminary ruling or because some rules, probably, are valid, of common sense and must be supported and shared. Here we are in front of a decree to take or leave it. I do not know if there will be the usual operations of recourse to trust, but it is good to know that this decree violates the directives issued by the Presidency of the Republic for the homogeneity of the matter of decree-laws (homogeneity that is not there), finances Mare nostrum and prepares, also from the point of view of the livability of our cities, other disasters for our country. The preliminary ruling was, of course, made on the fundamental principles, but it also wants to denounce the wrong choice on the substance that this Government is making. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u10	He asked Senator Bisinella to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u11	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, with this decree-law, once again intervenes - yet again - in order to adopt absolutely illegitimate measures from a constitutional point of view. For the umpteenth time in this House and in the other parliamentary rooms - we have repeated this a thousand times in the Commission - we are faced with an abuse of the instrument of urgent decree. In this case it is enough to read the title of the decree to understand that we are talking about measures, for sports demonstrations, for the fight against violence in the stadiums and the fund for immigration and humanitarian protection, with a strange assumption that it seems almost like the theme of stadium violence is linked to immigration. For the umpteenth time, therefore, the Government uses the instrument of emergency regulation in contempt of the provisions of Articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution, improperly and emptying the Parliament of its prerogatives. For years now, but never as in this last period, the recourse to the decree of urgency is a form of imbalance and true forcing of the balance between the powers provided for by the current constitutional dictation; a form that de facto shifts to the Government all regulatory power and compresses the legislative power of the Chambers. All this happens in the silence and in the omerty; in your silence, of the PD Group, which once so much denounced the violation of the Constitution when previous governments of center-right dared to do so much. In the silence of you and the Quirinale we see these forms of abuse every day! In particular, in this decree-law the interventions concern a complex of absolutely heterogeneous subjects and heterogeneity is also contrary to the requirements of Law No 400 of 1988, according to which - I would like to remind my colleagues and also Senator Cociancich, that yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs he climbed over the mirrors to defend the constitutionality of this provision of which it has long been debated - the decree-laws must contain uniform provisions corresponding to the title. Moreover, Law No. 400, although it is an ordinary law, has legal value as responsible for the orderly use of the decree of urgency. The high level of unevenness in content also implies a differentiated assessment of the existence of the requirements of necessity and urgency for each of the provisions under consideration. In fact, if these requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency do not exist, pursuant to Article 77 of the Constitution, for the exercise of legislative power by the Government, it adopts an act having ordinary law force in an absolutely improper manner. The preamble does not refer to objective circumstances which are in support of the extraordinary need and urgency and many of the provisions contained have nothing to do with the need to intervene in the form of urgency. I would like to remind my colleagues, for the umpteenth time, that the Constitutional Court itself has repeatedly pronounced itself in this regard, for example with judgment No 171 of 2007 and with many others, such as No 128 of 2008, through which, in particular, it is pointed out that the obvious lack of factual assumptions and the unevenness of the decree-laws cannot in any way be exceeded and determines the evident, obvious and manifest inconstitutionality of the decrees. Among the various provisions, I recall paragraph 1 of article 1 of the decree-law, which considerably tightens the penalties provided for, providing that the provisions of criminal nature have effect from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law. There is therefore a significant discrepancy with the entry into force of the law. This contrasts with the constitutional precept of urgency which must be of extraordinary necessity. On the other hand, the fulfilment of the requirement laid down in Law No 400 of 1988 on the immediate applicability of the measures laid down also fails. Article 4 also restricts the freedom of enterprise and discriminates against access to sporting events on the basis of the residence of citizens. Then we come to the core: Articles 5, 6 and 7 provide for international protection and provide for numerous and substantial financial measures. It is therefore not clear what they have to do with the part of the previous decree. I would also like to point out - and this is for us the most important issue of reflection - that in a subtle and surreptitious way in this decree-law in fact, with an agreement between the Democratic Party and the Interior Minister Alfano, the refinancing of operation Mare Nostrum is hidden from the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Bravo! Bisinella (LN-Aut). A further 70 million euros are allocated to refinance an operation that is bankrupt and that has shown all its obvious limitations, producing unimaginable and now incalculable damages for the country. An operation that has endangered the lives of people who are exploited and subjected to voyages of hope in which they often lose their lives and has led to the collapse of our social and economic system. This is done in an absolutely shameful way. In conclusion, I recall that with these unholy and shameful policies, while the Democratic Party exults and in silence and omerty in the face of obvious constitutional illegitimacy it is preparing to bring home yet another decree-law, it is confirmed a left-wing policy aimed at favoring, instead of its citizens who have no work, have no income and struggle to arrive at the end of the month, waves of illegal immigrants, who to sound of 1,200 euros per month, thanks to the ships of Mare nostrum, live better than our pensioners (it was certified yesterday that 2,5 million pensioners live with less than 500 euros per month) and disabled people (to whom we give the misery of monthly subsidies of 250 euros). [[Applause from Senators Taverna and Simeoni]] The Mare nostrum operation costs us € 9.3 million. You are approving a manifestly illegitimate measure and you are doing it in a devious way, and you are causing enormous damage to your citizens. We therefore want the question referred for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality to be adopted so that no further examination of the measure can be carried out. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u12	Since no one intends to intervene, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not possible. You only vote for a show of hands. GAETTI (M5S). Then after the vote I will ask for a counterproof. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us first verify the result of the vote. Verification of the MALAN quorum (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1637 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (QP1), and Senator Bisinella and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. Senator Gaetti had previously asked for counterproof. I therefore order the doors to be closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u13	Mr President, in my speech I would like to draw the House's attention to one particular point contained in this measure. I refer to the provisions of Article 8, paragraph 1-a, namely the introduction of the so-called Taser as a tool for our law enforcement forces. I believe that this is a very sensitive point, on which we need to reconsider in order to consider first of all whether it really falls within the stated objectives of the decree-law and, even more importantly, whether we are willing to introduce in our state the possibility that the police forces use an instrument that already Amnesty International and UN, as well as individual national states, are stigmatizing for the fact that, if abused, it can lead to death or in any case can be considered an instrument of torture. I'm not making anything up. I don't know if any of you, distracted colleagues and little interested in the general discussion (as usual), have ever come across some video available on You Tube (it's a check that you can do even now, while I'm talking, going out, or wearing earphones) and see the application modes and effects of the Taser, a sort of electric gun that releases a very strong electric discharge against the protester (because this is the use to which it will mainly be intended, if it really will be introduced). I invite you to check with your eyes how, especially in many states of the United States this instrument, apart from the reasonable possibility of using it as a less lethal weapon than a firearms weapon, is in fact used abusively by some members of the Forces of Order, yielding to the easy temptation to use an instrument that is considered not lethal, but that in fact, especially if used on subjects with heart disease, pacemaker carriers, or epilepsy sufferers, can lead to death. Once and for all I would like to remind you that the name of this instrument is the acronym of the private company that produces it (the Thomas A. Swift's Electronic Rifle) and is a trademark filed by Taser International, Inc. According to Amnesty International since 2001, the year Taser was supplied, the deaths were 864, 90 percent of which were unarmed. We are talking about cases where death has been a direct consequence of the use of Taser or in any case the cause of death. Amnesty International also argues that medical studies show that people suffering from heart disease or who are in particular states of emotional alteration under stress may lose their lives or have serious consequences if they are affected by this weapon. In addition to the risk of excessive and free use there is also the possibility of not knowing who you are hitting. In the text of the decree-law it is expected that by decree of the Minister of the Interior to be adopted within thirty days, with due caution for health and public safety and according to the precautionary principles, prior to agreement with the Ministry of Health, may be introduced the testing of the Taser electric gun by the Police for the needs of their institutional tasks. It is clear that the Ministry of Health, however forward-looking and professional, will be able to give indications that can hardly then be respected in the hypothetical emergency situations or in the street clashes where the departments of the Forces of the Order are called to intervene to restore public order: it is easy to imagine that they will use this gun without having the possibility to ask the subject who is going to strike if, by chance, suffers from diseases of cardiac type or others for which there are contraindications to the use of this gun. To us of the 5 Star Movement Group there is a doubt. Since the experimental use of Taser is not, at least this results from the letter of the text, limited only to sporting events because it can be used indiscriminately also in other public demonstrations, it is perhaps legitimate to suspect that this measure is introduced in a subtle way in this decree-law (whose heterogeneity has already been the subject of censorship) probably for fear of the protests that, unfortunately, it is easy to expect, given the measures "lacry and blood" imposed on our country by the last governments. It is certainly not by chance that as soon as the possibility of an agitation of the police forces emerged, in the face of the blockade of public contracts, the Government has rushed to recover a billion euros in order to block any failure in the ranks of those who have the institutional task of protecting the elite and keeping at bay people exasperated by cuts, layoffs, the collapse of wages, evictions and the increase of taxes. So, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should rethink this measure which may not allow a step backwards once we introduce the possibility of using Taser to our police forces. We call for the amendments proposed by the 5 Star Movement and, I believe, also by the Mixed Group, aimed at repealing the rule that introduces the Taser experimentally, to be voted favorably so that we can assess and be aware of the responsibility that should be assumed in authorising this instrument, the danger of which is evident from objective data and from what is supported by international organizations. The stigmatization of the introduction of Taser is one of the reasons for all the critical comments that will be made by my group's colleagues, even in the context of the presentation of amendments, which will most likely lead to a vote against the entire decree, subject to very improved amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u14	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u15	Mr President, in fact, once again, the instrument of urgent decision-making, in our view, is being used very improperly. We have denounced this many times during this parliamentary term; we have denounced how this mode contributes very strongly to emptying the role of Parliament, a role that has already been deeply put in crisis, as we know, by a very frequent recourse to trust. The umpteenth recourse to the urgent decree seems even more unacceptable to us, if possible, because in this case, as has also been said a moment ago during the discussion of the constitutional prejudices, there have been profoundly different issues. This reveals a clear profile of unconstitutionality from our point of view. They were put together, as if they were similar subjects, topics such as stadium violence on the one hand, and asylum seekers on the other, complemented by another very complex affair. It is a very delicate issue: I am referring to the introduction of the electric gun in our country, the so-called Taser, on which I will come back later in the course of the reasoning, which, in my opinion, would have deserved a separate discussion since it is a very serious issue. I would not want this Parliament to be forced to discuss the effects of this gun in some tragic case in some time. Of course we hope not, but we fear that this will happen. As in the past, the use of a single decree for such diverse and heterogeneous subjects inevitably forces us to focus our attention on the aspects that least share this provision. This prevents us from being able to express a different opinion on other points, on which we may have a different opinion. We would have liked to have discussed this in a more direct way, in particular, on the issue of asylum, than the very instrumental debate that we heard in part in the House this morning, in the debate that took place a few days ago. 10.23 a.m. (De Cristofaro follow). We would have liked very much to discuss true numbers and not distorted by a certain propaganda, starting from an important mission like Mare nostrum, which has often been represented during these months with offensive, misleading terms and even with a description of the dignity of people. On the other hand, we would like to make this clear, starting with the numbers and the fact that during 2013 Europe gave shelter to 135,000 asylum seekers. However, we know that most of the people who transit our country then go elsewhere, so the so-called pressure on the national territory is of a few thousand people, compared - let us remember - with more than 55 million inhabitants. A few months ago I happened to go, on a mission from the Foreign Commission, to Lebanon, a small country of less than 10 million inhabitants who over the course of these months welcomed one and a half million Syrian refugees. That is a real migratory pressure and certainly not the one that is being discussed in our country, where there is talk - I insist - of a few thousand people, compared to a population of almost 60 million inhabitants. Despite these figures so clear and clear, however, we have unfortunately witnessed throughout all these months the usual vulgate, unfortunately very often racist, which blows strongly on the fire produced by the social crisis and which very often also determines a very dangerous war among the poor, just to see what is happening also during these weeks in some Roman suburbs (but also in other parts of the country). If only for these reasons, it would have been very right to deepen this discussion in a separate way and deal separately with the matter, which is serious and concerns the mechanisms of reception as determined in Italy. The decree-law also contains some steps forward, but the subject had to be treated in a completely distinct and separate way from a subject such as violence in sporting events. On the contrary, in this provision it is dealt with almost as if it were a sort of corollary, while the heart of the decree-law is another. Even the issue of violence in sporting events would have been frankly much more serious to discuss not with the usual instrument of the decree-law, at least because on the subject of violence in the stadiums, moreover with non-existent results throughout these years, we proceed with the decree of urgency for more than twenty years. In other words, we are faced with a kind of permanent emergency legislation, which also this time does not escape the dramatic events that unfortunately every "x" time takes place: in this case the dramatic story of the final of the Italian Cup and the absurd death of an innocent named Ciro Esposito. Well, this emergency legislation has produced a number of acts over the past few years which have not solved the problem at all, nor have they, as they say, brought families back to the stadiums, because families are increasingly distant. On the other hand, over the course of these years there have been real continuous extensions of emergency legislation, such as DASPO, the prohibition of access to sporting events, the so-called deferred flagrantity, which already evokes a profile of dubious constitutionality. Today these measures are even extended, including in the case of DASPO a series of behaviors that from our point of view have nothing to do with violence in the stadiums. I am referring to events of various kinds: shipwreck, railway disaster, incitement to disobey the laws, attacks on public utilities. All this is understood in the ratio of this institute, which was already questionable before, but at least it had a logical sense, when the discipline of the past somehow confined the DASPO to limited behavior, such as the launch of objects, the possession of weapons, the use of helmets. The measure was also questionable at the time because there were strong profiles of dubious constitutionality, since it applied not only to those condemned definitively, not even to those at first instance, but simply to those denounced. Therefore, this measure already deserved further consideration, given its dubious constitutional profile, but at least it had, until yesterday, a more logical explanation. Today this dilation somehow makes us even more critical, unless the goal is another. However, if the objective is to be another one, it must be made clear and that must be discussed. The risk is that we do not refer more simply to the stages, but more generally to an overall idea of society. I want to discuss this very seriously. Since we are faced with an unprecedented social and economic crisis, it is clear that this can produce social tensions: do we think of solving these social tensions by simply using tools of emergency legislation, public order and public security? Within this decree - one of my colleagues just mentioned it - there is also a very serious and, from our point of view, very harmful and very dangerous: the introduction in this country of the electric gun, which caused almost 1,000 deaths in the countries where it was used. Is it possible, Mr President, that this Parliament cannot discuss separately, and not in a mixture of a thousand rules, at least a serious issue like this, namely that we are providing our forces with an instrument which all international organizations regard as extremely dangerous and deadly? We'd have wanted the Force of Order helmets with the identification numbers on them. Instead of having the identification numbers, we had the electric guns: this really says a lot about what's going on. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Bignami and Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u16	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u17	Mr President, we are here to discuss a decree on the stages which, from the title, makes us think of everything unless the real content. Trust was placed in the House, with 289 votes in favour and 144 against: not a success. To the two abstainers, if one day you can figure out who they are, I will also ask why they abstained. What made the most of it are the few presences. The decree provides for a series of measures to ensure that the world of football contributes to the costs of security and public order during matches. Well, it is clearly an omnibus and hybrid decree, as often happens (as always happens, I would say). There are several measures and rules relating to safety in stadiums and, in general, for sporting events, including some a little special things, such as the economic coverage of football clubs for the overtime of the Forces of Order. Such economic coverage will be realized through a tax that previews that the clubs pay between 1 and 3 percent of tax on the tickets sold, with which they will be found approximately 25 million euros. The DASPO measure is tightened up to at least three years towards people who probably shouldn't set foot in the stadium. It is also expected that the curves will be closed and tickets will not be sold in the Province from which the opposing team comes. Then there is the subject of sports fraud, of which this country has been tainted too many times in the past. All agreeable, maybe improved. Some say that these measures are useless, while others, Mr President, consider them necessary. I say that if it serves Mr. Genny the bastard to stay out of the balls and stadiums, then it's a good thing. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]] Do we want to open a debate on this issue? No way. We are waiting for Minister Boschi to visit us. Among other things, after 23rd or 24th trust, he has not yet learned those two lines of trust. Learn it by heart, don't read it, it bothers this thing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] If I had to do the calculation of how much it costs every time you read this prick in the last seven or eight months, it would come out a huge amount. How many trusts are there? We lost count. Yet, the Renzi Government, which had torn its clothes so that these classrooms would not in a certain sense be mocked, said that it would not place trust. But I see it doesn't work that way. We have said that trust must concern the fight against violence in the stadiums and instead it will serve to make more efficient the machine of the reception in Italy of those who come through the sea, and not only. The second part is the most important, the most hidden part, the part that is not precisely read within the title of the measure: the one that provides significant news of the Government regarding the migration issue affecting the Italian territory; the one that provides that cities such as Agrigento, Augusta, Palermo, Ragusa and other realities are excluded from compliance with the Stability Pact for the only expenses incurred for the reception of migrants. Then I'll tell you something else. This happens also to the Municipalities where, by decree or by obligation, the prefects put the mayors in the condition of having properties [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] in which to insert a series of subjects whose, among other things, sometimes do not know the date, quantity or place. Do so also for those municipalities, be they yellow, red or green. But we haven't built the bridge yet, so some issues still have to go through the ferry boat. So, there are 50 million, to which we add another 62.7 to face the entry of foreigners into our territory. We presented an interrogation to the Minister to ask what happened to those 500 subjects who, in Fiumicino, eluded the controls and lost their tracks. The text speaks of facing the entrance of foreigners. Perhaps the term is incorrect: I would say "hospitable" better, which is probably the most exact term. Maybe from the two stars you have to switch to the three or the four stars. Of course, even if the Five Stars were to give us a hand on this issue, it wouldn't be a bad thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As far as the Alfano decree is concerned, it is the same Minister of the enormous mess of Mare nostrum, who found with this decree some money to make available to the wicked idea of hospitality. Senator De Cristofaro who preceded me said that, in fact, there are a few thousand asylum seekers in Italy. On the other hand, I would also ask how many mothers ask for asylum worthy of that name for their children, a kindergarten at a cost that gives the possibility of being able to arrive at the end of the month. That, perhaps, is the kindergarten we should be worried about. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With this decree the interior minister Alfano - let me say: give us Maroni again, give us another time, for God's sake! At the very least, if you go and read the shorthands or see the videos, you probably might learn something. Minister Alfano was also elbowed with Maroni, but he didn't learn anything - he found a way to charge those who will go to see a game at the stadium, maybe those families who always try to get around the stadiums. It will be clear that they will still pay the tickets with the increase from 1 to 3 percent and will pay even more once again Mare nostrum. They will pay for the deterioration of the ships of the Navy; they will pay the 1,200 euros per month for the approximately (I have not yet understood well how many are) 130,000 or 150,000 illegals (let's call them with the right word) that in a bad way has brought this Government. All this when about 2.5 million pensioners - my colleague said well before - live in a dramatic way with 500 euros per month and when disabled people are given 250 euros per month. Shame! There are 130 million people allocated to immigration, obviously not to strengthen border control but to facilitate reception. Last week we had in this House the Minister of Health: how much money does that Ministry have? It seems to me that there are a lot of cuts, especially in the regions, but without money there is no control, and then the TB and Ebola will win. The Ebola in particular, for those who have not yet understood it, is at our doors and probably is already among us. Then of course, Mr President, it is always a matter of priority, and one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health is to deal with dermoepydermic striae atrophy - more commonly referred to by Mrs Maria - which is probably more important than an issue such as Ebola, which is considered to be the new plague, much more dangerous than AIDS. [[Call the president back.]] One minute, ma'am. Stretch marks are a very sensitive problem: who doesn't have stretch marks? I cut my speech, but I want to say something related to our snake charmer, President Renzi, who was in Bergamo at the assembly of Confindustria. I liked it very much (I was among the first rows), it was of a huge sympathy: he was an enchanter, giving a blow to the barrel and a shot to the circle and, sometimes, also a stagata to the "poor host." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He found money palate, he was right to all; he supported everyone and had a good word for everyone: on growth, down taxes, on employment, down bank interests, on GDP, down the tax wedge, on internal consumption, down the pants, on the pants, in short, you did not understand a tube. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] One up and down that popped the whole audience a little. He announced EUR 18 billion in tax cuts, especially for businesses, and here very well for all entrepreneurs present. Ecobonus, TFR in paycheck, 80 euros extended: we have practically prepared for the next election campaign. And here I should say something to Senator Orellana, who I do not see among the benches: Mr Orellana unfortunately yesterday gave you a big hand to go to the elections. I don't know if the Democratic Party is happy or not with this position taken by the senator, who guaranteed the number of 161 (I don't know if he was 1 or 161, but it changes little). Senator Orellana helped the Democratic Party, because there could probably be some patatrac yesterday. [[Call the president back.]] Just a few more seconds, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u18	I invite you to conclude, as the Presidency has already given you more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u19	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Mr President. Speaking of stadiums, among other things, if you had to do a chorus in the curves, as for me it could sound like this: "Council, I don't know who you are a son!"For Orellana it could sound like this: "Orellana..." and there one can put everything he thinks best. THE COURT (PD). How dare you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council, you already had a few more seconds, but not for improper use of time. I would therefore ask you to conclude because your time is up. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I have never doubted that truth and politics are in rather bad relationships: truth and politics go against one another and, to my knowledge, no one has ever counted sincerity among political virtues. I believe that what is happening in this House, with decree-laws on which the Government always raises the question of trust, is the expression of an inability of the Government to hold a serious debate within Parliament. President Renzi feels himself king and every king has subjects; and the ideal subject of the totalitarian regime is neither the Nazi nor the convinced communist, but the individual for whom the distinction between reality and fiction and between true and false no longer exists. And we've gotten to this point. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u20	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking about a decree-law - urgent, of course - within which there is everything, a disorganic and uneven decree. We have tabled improved amendments to the text, although I have to say that I have only tabled three, because I know that perhaps we will not even be able to discuss them because of yet another vote of confidence. 10:43 a.m. (Romani Maurizio followed). Then why did I sign up to speak in this context? Because I take advantage of this context to talk about Article 1, which provides for the increase of penalties for the crime of fraud in sports competitions. It is true that we must try to contain the violence in the stadiums, but it immediately comes to my mind that in some countries there is also the death penalty for the murders, but these did not end with the increase of the penalties: they decreased with a certain education, with a certain lifting of the culture of the subjects who perform heinous acts. Now we are faced with subjects who have to see the games almost caged and football clubs that seem to be very little interested in this, indeed they very often dialogue with the most violent thus showing some irresponsibility. Well, we are trying to increase the share of income that football clubs have to provide to the Forces of Order, which, all in all, would already be paid to carry out their function of defending public order. I have also seen that on some occasions we relate to what happens elsewhere, and to improve all this we should do as in Germany or England, where they have stewards inside the stadium and the police are just outside, so where society pays the stewards and this mechanism makes more civilized sports clubs and even the fan (if so we want to call him). Spain has also put in place a similar mechanism, increasing its defences. And so on. But I want to take another example, which is much more compelling: that of rugby companies. If you see, rugby companies don't need stewards or so many law enforcement forces outside the stadiums. Culture is different: since they are children, those who go to play rugby have parents who applaud the opponent when he marks the goal, not parents who tell them: Tighten his legs! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Bignami]] I believe then that the money that these blessed sports clubs, of football, will have to give, should serve to increase the education of sport. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Bignami]] They should be used to ensure that a 12-year-old is not directed to competitive activity, but rather to make him practice sports because it is good for him. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups]] , because it's good to be with others, it's good to be with others and share the result of a game, and that you win or lose doesn't matter at all: the important thing is to know that you have contributed to your team and done what you could. I have always been of the idea that one should show by example how one must live and not force others to believe that what we say is right and what we believe in is truth. We have to give an example, and what example do they give players who enter the field as gladiators? What example do those who are on the stands and, without wanting to make strange comparisons, seem tribal at the Circus maximum and not mere people who are there to see a fair confrontation, in which you can win or lose? I would then like the money that sports clubs will give them to increase the number of gymnastics professors in schools and to ensure that gymnastics is practiced every day. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Bignami]] I would like them to give them to make sure that if a child doesn't feel like becoming a 12-year-old player he isn't kicked out of any football club because at 14 we already have all professionals aimed at becoming a Serie A footballer. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Bignami]] In this direction, in my opinion, the mindset should change. All this in a decree-law of this magnitude is not there, and that is what arouses anger in me. So, since we know that the government will put the trust, since it has already done so in the House, I would - and I would be very happy - like to have a big agenda, considering that we will not be able to approve any amendments, in which we ask for this and make ourselves, therefore, less stadium characters (I have also seen here scenes that were very close to those of the stadium). [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] I am always profoundly convinced that, if those who manage this reality give an example of that type, then it is not surprising that some subjects, angry, who need to vent their most repressed instincts, find the only outlet in the stadium, because now they no longer make demonstrations, we are not indignant almost for nothing at all: we get angry only if the opponent makes a goal or if he throws in the ball with his hand. I would like to return to the example of rugby: I saw referees make a resounding mistake in their decisions and I saw colossus of men, three times greater than the referee, go and tell him that according to them he had made a mistake, but do not question what was decided, turn around and accept the referee's decision. If we get to bring people who play sports to this mindset, laws like this will no longer be needed. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, PD, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u22	I have received a request from the prescribed number of senators, first signed by Calderoli, for a secret vote on 40 amendments. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice Minister, on 3 May last year, with the tragic death of Ciro Esposito, that Neapolitan fan who died as a result of the serious gunshot wounds reported before the start of the Italian Cup Final, the Fiorentina-Naples soccer match, scheduled for the Roma Olympic Stadium, certainly marked a point of no return on the strict and stringent measures to be taken to prevent and firmly repress episodes of violence at sporting events. In these conditions of alarm, after the countless episodes of violence in amateur and professional football, even in the last competitive season, it therefore appeared more than appropriate, if not necessary, the use of new norms, overcoming also the established habit of abusing the experiences of other European countries, and not, in the matter of combating violence in football, that could rewrite the body of legislation in the matter of violence in the occasion of sporting events, so as to make them more compatible and efficient to the new realities that have emerged in recent months. Of course, there are two things that need to be done: prevention and repression. You see, Mr. Deputy Minister... ( Deputy Minister Bubbico is intent on talking to Senator Di Giorgi). Mr President, perhaps you could ask for the necessary attention to be paid to a measure which - I hope - should not be replicated in this House perhaps after the coming Sundays or football Saturdays. I have tabled a draft law on this subject and today a number of amendments to the text under discussion and some agendas for the conversion into law of this decree which were submitted for Parliament's approval. All these interventions that I intended to put to the attention of the Government are aimed at two main objectives: the first is to intensify the control and prevention actions near sports facilities, in order to avoid in a strict manner, widening controls and sanctions, the presence of subjects already reported for crimes related to sporting events. For example, during the final of the Italian Cup the clashes took place outside the stadium had protagonists who were already relapsed for some crimes committed at sporting events. And no one, either in this House or outside this House, was able to explain how it was possible for those people to be in that place during that demonstration which was sensitive from the point of view of public order. In this direction, Mr. Deputy Minister and fellow Members, even in experimental form, highly innovative and technological tools could be useful, such as electronic bracelets for those already protagonists of stadium crimes, in order to check with reasonable timeliness the presence in the adjacent areas of the facilities for the events considered. Another objective, as well as other equally important ones, could be to carry out a strong responsibility of sports clubs in the management of public order within the facilities. Mr. Deputy Minister, I was thinking, for example, of the security manager, identified and paid by sports clubs, with precise professional characteristics, who could respond to a need in constant coordination with the public security authorities to ensure organized control within the facilities, including through the use of stewards with the status of public service officers. Today the stewards have no qualifications and there is always the problem of how, and if, they can intervene during events that, within the stadium, have to do with public order and security. I am a sports enthusiast, Mr President, in particular of football, and I go to the stadium, as a fan or as a simple enthusiast. And I must say that it seems strange to me that the Ministry of the Interior did not notice that in Rome, even at one of the last international events, the Champions League, during the game against the CSKA in Moscow, there were serious accidents, both inside and outside the stadium. This testifies that public order is not an exact science, but something that needs to be approached with a different in-depth study than what is thought to be done by using some norms to be joined to others, which perhaps have little relevance to the central theme of which we would like to discuss. These forecasts could certainly make sports clubs more responsible, which should intervene with few economic and structural means: installation and management of video surveillance within the stadiums. Another theme is that of sports facilities, which includes the relationship between municipalities that are often the owners of stadiums and sports clubs, which become real dealers. And then there is the whole subject of adaptation of the stadiums, also in terms of safety and enjoyment of this show, with a debate that still languishes in the parliamentary classrooms. With regard to this, we should intervene firmly and with particular attention, through a series of points which are in some way contained in this draft law which I have presented. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I am very respectful of the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, following your call, I am going to the conclusions quickly. I note with regret that there has been no such attention. Of course, this does not change the reasons for my strong support, which I owe to the Renzi Government, but I believe that here we are missing an opportunity. What Senator Maurizio Romani said about cultural humus and in part what other parliamentarians, in particular Senator De Cristofaro, said, represent an extraordinary opportunity to consider how to use the reforms that we could make available and how to involve sports clubs. The idea of starting sport, as in rugby, where footballers and fans, after and before the event, celebrate and spend days in sports loyalty and in the diversity of passion for their team is an extraordinary document, which we should reflect on in this Parliament. I would like to hope that there would be another possibility to be able to deepen these issues, and I am sure that Deputy Minister Bubbico will take charge, as a representative of the Government, to resume these occasions, finding experimental forms with respect to some norms, but above all finding even more advanced cultural moments to discuss these issues. I believe that we owe it also to a young Italian, who lived in Naples but was a young Italian, who left his skin to go and watch a football game. I believe that the composure of the family members of Ciro Esposito and the crowd of people who participated in the funeral represents the ability to interpret that pain in respect of a sport and a state that, unfortunately, did not do its duty that evening. This is an issue that concerns us all and that must involve us not only in this House but also in our free time when, as spectators, we go to the stadium knowing that, as representatives of the citizens, we have the responsibility to protect those rights but above all the beauty of sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education Via Salvini in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the provisions of this measure on safety at the stadiums, a subject which has also been widely mentioned in previous speeches. "Violence in the stadiums" is, unfortunately, an expression entered into the everyday life of our language. Violence in the stadiums but violence also outside the stadiums, if we think of the episode last May 3rd on the occasion of the final Napoli-Fiorentina. But we also remember other episodes, perhaps less recent: the carabiniere died in the south, or the scooter launched from the stands that killed an innocent boy. The real fans, in these situations, are forced to follow the football game on television or to read the news reports. An athlete or team that wins receives the admiration of his fans, receives applause and compliments. Often, however, it is not considered that certain goals are achieved at a high price, with sacrifices, renunciations and continuous training. Sporting also requires loyalty, patience, friendship and solidarity. This unfortunately does not appear in the stadiums, where there are more and more frequent episodes of violence and racism, especially against black players: in fact, as soon as the latter touch the ball, the fans of the opposing team insult them or throw objects against them. Maybe we also add some reckless jokes, let's call it that, from someone who should be, instead, for the role he plays, as an example. Violent actors are not only the fans but also, sometimes, the players themselves who do not accept the decisions of the referee and cause fights in the field. This does not happen (and my colleague Maurizio Romani is right) in some sports. Lately we are witnessing or reading too often of clashes in the stadiums between police and ultra. Some data, referring to the last Serie A championship, give us a rather bleak picture of the degradation of typhus and the risks involved in these football competitions: the matches with wounded have increased; there are wounded among the stewards, among those who have the task not only to facilitate access but also to ensure safety; the number of arrests has increased. In the last series championship A there was a +14 percent employment of Forces of the order, with a total cost of 14 million euros. There were 2,353 DASPO measures. There are over 400 groups of organized fans, some of which, besides being groups of fans, also have political connotations. If this happens, it means that going to a football match is no longer a party, but it is a risk to personal safety. True, to try to reduce violence laws have been created that provide for the control of the people who access the stadiums, economic sanctions for those who hold dangerous objects, and even ban to watch the game. Recently, the law prohibiting the use of rockets and smoke gases has been passed. There was also an increase in the penalty for resistance to the public officer; doors to the stadiums were closed not in order, and access was reserved only to subscribers. They are all measures of containment and repression of the phenomenon. The measure we are examining today is therefore not only appropriate but even necessary; a further attempt, with the tightening of sanctions and precautionary measures, to give greater security to those who, with a true sporting spirit, intend to attend the stadiums, which we must give back to children, to families so that they are actually places where we go to celebrate. I think it is also necessary to go back to the origins of the exasperated typhus that often results in violence, sometimes even in tragedy. We must also think about how our children, our young people, are educated to practice sports. Those who have the habit or who even occasionally go to attend some game of young footballers, even of the youngest, chicks, beginners, all too often find themselves witnessing unconsonable, even uneducational, attitudes of parents screaming or insulting young referees or children's opponents or even inciting children to violent behaviors against opponents. Young footballers who receive this type of message from their parents or coaches will not be able to become adult athletes able to accept the rules of sport, they will never become real sportsmen, but they will only be fans at risk. If we want to go back to the origins of the violent typhus, here, one origin is also this. Welcoming the measure under consideration, there is also the need to address to the Government the invitation to identify initiatives to be carried out among sports clubs, in the school, among youth associations, to educate to be fans. There are already experiences that go in this direction, but they are sporadic, too isolated; they are only spontaneous initiatives, but, where they are carried out, they prove effective. Following the government's policy lines, I welcomed the manifest desire to give greater importance to the inclusion of sport, in the form of sport education, in school planning. This is the right direction and future action will have to go in this direction. But much can be done (definitely more than has been done so far), also with initiatives to control their associates, sports federations and societies that belong to the various federations, especially the youth and amateur associations. If we do not go in this direction, we will still be faced for a long time with episodes such as those already experienced; we will still have to employ our law enforcement forces in the control of stadiums, subtracting them from other more effective actions for all citizens; the Government and Parliament will still have to take repressive measures to contain the phenomenon. Therefore, we will also have to support the repression with concrete initiatives to educate people to be fans, to be sportsmen and to do sports. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u27	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a crisis due to the alteration of the hydrogeological balance in our country. The hydrogeological failure continues to reap victims. This would deserve government interventions characterized by necessity and urgency. Instead, we are dealing with the so-called stadium decree, which is certainly a necessary question, but not as urgent as that of securing our territory. Is it possible, Mr President, that the commemoration of the victims is all we can do? I don't think so. We should do a lot more. We are, therefore, faced with yet another decree-law which does not respond at all to the characteristics of necessity and urgency required by the Constitution. The current law on stadium violence could be changed with the ordinary process of a bill designed, decided, wanted and voted by Parliament. Perhaps the characteristics of necessity and urgency are due to the humiliation suffered by Renzi and the Government following the events that saw involved Renzi himself and Genny 'a carragna': the public negotiations stadium-mafia, carried out by the ultra during the final of the Italian Cup, outraged us, but perhaps it was an inspiration for the Premier who could, once again, block the work of Parliament forcing him to deal with the umpteenth decree-law. But do you think it is urgent to start the trial of the Taser, the deadly electric gun capable of tramortizing an attacker by means of a high voltage electric discharge and responsible for the death of hundreds of people all over the world? Would it not have been wiser to use these funds to provide adequate equipment and equipment to the law enforcement forces working for our security? But that's it. In the decree-law we are also talking about immigration and, yes, it is an urgent issue; but so urgent for our Government that we are still waiting for the 190 million euros promised and destined by the Letta Government and not yet allocated. Meanwhile, while we are waiting for this budget, the Renzi Government promises 62 more, who knows when they will be allocated. What is the basis for the use and management of these funds? I quote an anecdote. A short time ago, the CPSA (First Aid and Reception Centre) in Lampedusa was reopened, after the well-known and shameful affair of immigrants washed with cold water jets. Well, do you know who was entrusted with the management of that institute? To the partner of Minister Alfano's brother. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] Look at this coincidence! We of the 5 Star Movement ask for the effective use of the resources allocated, we ask for transparency in their use, we ask for correctness and respect for the procedures. In short, we ask for things that cost nothing to the state but that greatly increase the quality of services and the confidence of citizens in the institutions. On one thing, however, the Government is right: it is necessary to intervene immediately to help the Sicilian Municipalities crushed by migratory pressure. The Minister of the Interior should also intervene on this: we will see, given the premises. Today we will presumably have yet another question of trust. I do not feel like commenting on the demeaning of Parliament's role as a result of this continuous abuse of the government's use of trust. In the Commission, however, all the amendments, by whomever they were tabled, have been rejected, many of which would have made a substantial contribution to the improvement of the decree-law in question. Almost all agendas have also been rejected. I was particularly impressed by one of these rejections and I would like to remind you of it. This is the agenda G/1637/12/1/2, which would have committed the Government to take initiatives to promote sport culture among the younger generations, i.e. among children, and to assess the possibility of assigning them to the stages of the protected sectors. A government that has no sensitivity to the weakest people in our society, that is to say to children, I believe it is a government that deserves no confidence and a government that will have no future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u29	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another decree-law which ignores the numerous references made by the President of the Republic and the same judgments of the Constitutional Court on the need to respect the principles relating to the characteristics and content of the emergency measures laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution, since neither the criteria of homogeneity nor those of relevance exist in the measure under consideration. Violence in the stadiums, in all evidence, has nothing to do with Operation Mare nostrum and migratory flows. As regards, in particular, the violence in the stadiums, there is a tightening of the norms certainly necessary, but there are steps of this decree-law that will not be able to find implementation and others certainly unconstitutional. 11:14 a.m. (Following Mazzoni). The rules on DASPO are tightened, extended to five years. Fans who introduce banners or writings that incite violence inside the stadium can also be sanctioned and, given what happens in our stadiums, the tightening of the rules is certainly appropriate. However, the fact that entire groups of fans can be punished with the DASPO involves certain profiles of unconstitutionality. In fact, one of the basic principles of our Constitution provides that criminal responsibility is personal: a principle that this decree-law tramples on, at the time when a whole group of fans is punished when only some of them perform acts against the law. Even the DASPO for the leaders ultra, for which we do not have any sympathy, has no legal basis, always for the principle of personal responsibility. Those who are in transenna, as they say in jargon, should be responsible for the facts carried out by the whole curve. In this way, a sort of objective responsibility has been incorporated into the norm, which is now deduced from the same sporting law, but which cannot find any citizenship in the criminal law. In short, there is a real risk that the first collective DASPO imposed will be raised an exception of unconstitutionality. To combat violence in stadiums there was a main road: follow the English example to the letter, with the strong and incisive recipe wanted by then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, based not only on repression. The English example should have been adopted for many years now. In this decree-law there is something, but only in a small part. In England, the state, first of all, has encouraged the complete restructuring of the systems, with the elimination of the barriers between the playing field and the stands and with the generalized use of the closed circuit cameras, but - above all - a special team of national surveillance anti-hooligans was created. An agent is entrusted to each of the professional companies and deals, always traveling in the wake of the fans, the recording of violent fans and infiltration actions. With this system it was possible to record about 7,000 fans in a dedicated database. In ten years this system has allowed the capture of over 15,000 ultra. There is a toll-free number to which you can call to report incidents, suspicious people and dangerous situations. Complaints are strictly anonymous, as well as the reward to citizens who allow the capture of thugs. From the point of view of sanctions, then, any deviant behavior within the stadium is considered a crime. Not only that, but also behaviors that appear completely normal in our stadiums, legitimize security personnel to proceed to the immediate expulsion from the sports facility and the magistrate to ban in the future the access to the stadium of those who are qualified as violent. There was no lack in the debate on the so-called stadium decree yet another slogan with the effect of the Premier or, to want to be more indulgent, a half truth, when it has been said that the overtime of the Forces of the Order engaged in the sporting demonstrations must be paid by the football clubs and not by the citizens. Many have thought of a real revolution, first of all the same clubs, which, in fact, immediately protested in order scattered through their highest representatives. In fact, it will only be in part: the companies will pay, but at most a third of the amount that the State spends every year to guarantee public order outside the stadiums because, in the end, the decree-law does not affect TV rights, which are the authentic gold mine of Italian football. The text only provides for a levy of 1% to 3% on revenue from the sale of tickets and subscriptions and the hope is that, in the end, you won't always pay Pants, that is, those who go to the stadium and you will see an increase in the price of the ticket. We come to Operation Mare nostrum; it is a very acrobatic logical leap, but the imagination of this Government obviously has no limits. The funding of the mission was inopportunely included in the decree stadiums. What is the link between violence in the stadiums and migratory flows and what is the criterion of relevance and homogeneity? And why was Mare nostrum not included in the decree on the missions of our military abroad? A mystery that no one wanted to reveal. Let's be clear: for the continuation of Mare nostrum serve 120 million euros, but the total budget, if the landings continue at the pace of the last months, will arrive within the next winter to the billion euros. I am not ideologically opposed to Mare nostrum, because after the massacre of Lampedusa of a year ago you could not turn on the other side. But it is evident to all that this humanitarian operation has ended up encouraging departures and enriching the traffickers of human beings who, thanks to the presence of our military ships off the Libyan coast, have been able to use even more dilapidated boats, increase the prices of the crossings and, with a simple phone call to our captains of port, assure the intervention of the Navy after a few tens of miles. I do not believe that doing taxi service to the traffickers of men was the original purpose of the mission, with the addition that the tragedies at sea have continued and that now there is the concrete risk of opening the doors not only to those fleeing from the wars in progress but also of bringing dangerous elements close to Islamic terrorism into our country. It is clear that even in the management of this phenomenon the Italian Government has failed to obtain any consideration from the European Union. Today that Italy has the Presidency of the Union and has its own representative in a decisive role, such as that of foreign affairs, we would expect a very different level of consideration. The Government has repeatedly invoked European intervention and the Minister of the Interior has repeatedly stated that the Mare nostrum mission cannot be continued, but the refinancing provided for in this decree is a denial of this claim in fact. The problem of the management of migratory flows cannot be only Italian; it is a European problem and the Italian Presidency should place among its priorities the revision of the Dublin Regulation, the most critical point of which is the fact that those who receive international protection almost always remain blocked in the country of first asylum, that is, Italy. The very large part of refugees arrives here only to reach the countries of Northern Europe and, on the other hand, it cannot because of the rigidity of the Dublin system. In short, the principle of solidarity, which is one of the pillars on which the European Union was founded, must be restored, and the solution certainly cannot be Frontex plus, an empty box that none of our partners intend to fill with the necessary funding. We are now waiting for the start of Operation Triton, which, according to Alfano, should put an end to Mare nostrum, but, I repeat, if we do not change the "Dublin System," the burden of reception will still remain entirely on our shoulders, whether we talk about Frontex plus or about Triton. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u32	Madam President, if I had any doubts as to the homogeneity in this decree between the rules on stadium violence and the rules on the reception of immigrants and refugees in our country, today's debate has taken them away from me. I noticed - it did not take a refined intuition - a very deep and cultural link between the attitude of those who want to expunge the discriminatory and racist violence in our stadiums and the attitude that our country is trying to hold towards those who land on our coasts animated not by criminal will, if not in a small part, but by the need to escape from situations of danger, war and suffering that confer, according to the international order, the right to be welcomed in our country to all these people. Therefore, the text that we are discussing today represents a little 'the remark, on the part of our Parliament, of the Government, of our country, a desire to build a more inclusive culture, more tolerant, more respectful and welcoming and to eradicate from Sunday sports events those violence contrary to this culture. It was very unpleasant for me - and I consider this to be a very serious fact - to have heard from the opposition benches a colleague incite here, in this debate, to expose in the stages insulting and defaming banners about one of our colleagues for his political ideas, because this absolutely goes against the operation that we are trying to do. The bill with which we are converting Decree-Law No 119 of 2014 contains a very important element relating to anti-discrimination action in our country, a step forward that has its roots in the 1975 anti-racism law, which our Parliament approved in transposition of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination in New York, which prohibited and prohibits propaganda of racist ideas and incitement, incitement, discrimination, hatred, violence. A few decades later, in 1993, that law was updated by the law of Mancino, which, among other things, identified the need to strike the forms of incitement to discrimination and racism in an organized way, thus hitting those organizations that put in place external manifestations or ostentations of emblems. It is then from the law of Mancino that the law on violence in the 2007 stadiums has extended its effectiveness also to the specific case of the exposure of banners and cartels in the stadiums that incite to violence or that contain insults or threats, and it is in extension to the law of 2007 that we go today to specify that these racist actions, abusive, discriminatory must be affected even where they are not limited to being expressed through cartels or banners, but also through other external manifestations. I would like to recall here the famous case already mentioned by Genny 'a carrogna, that last May 3 was accused and is still under house arrest for having led the aggressions of the fans of Naples against fans of Fiorentina on the occasion of the final of the Italian Cup, and that he carried with him not a sign, nor a banner, but, as often happens now, a T-shirt with in that case the written "Speziale libero", that is referring to the Catania fan accused of the murder of police inspector Filippo Raciti in 2007. It is therefore a further narrow, in the sense of preventing manifestations of violence and incitement to hatred, which goes hand in hand with those other measures provided for by the law, such as the extension of the DASPO also to those who, having not been directly condemned or denounced, have participated in demonstrations of violence inside or near sports facilities, or the possibility of closing the host sector of the stadiums, or the sale of tickets to the fans of the host team or, again in relation to the exposure of banners, posters or other insulting, discriminatory or racist, the possibility in these cases of an arrest in flagrant. I believe that this measure goes in the right direction, that is to show a strong attitude in the stadium against what appears more and more a sort of free zone in which the worst instincts of our country are poured into mass demonstrations often very dangerous. I would just like to add a comment on a subject that has been mentioned here several times, namely the adoption of the so-called Taser gun. I think we should pay great attention to the application of this measure. I am comforted to read, in the text of the decree-law that we are converting into law today, that every action by the Ministry of the Interior will be implemented only after agreement with the Minister of Health. This will mean - and I believe we will have to be vigilant and of course I expect the Government to follow this step carefully - that all the useful precautions will be taken and all the studies, all the research and all the trials will be carried out to prevent the adoption of this measure from taking place with physical damage to people, according to what, even in other interventions today, has been evoked to have happened in other countries where the gun has been adopted. So let's start experimenting, but with the utmost attention and above all with the greatest responsibility of the Ministry of Health, because this measure serves to reduce the use of firearms and not to foresee a further use of new types of weapon in the management of public order and public security. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u33	The general debate is closed. The Presidency informs that a proposal has been made not to move on to the examination of the articles by Senators Bernini and Malan. This proposal will be examined before proceeding to the examination of the articles of the decree-law. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I mean now, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Malan, if you'd like me to read what was written to you. According to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, which is very precise, before the examination of the articles of a draft law begins, each senator may make the proposal that no such examination be made. So now there are the replies and - as the Presidency has said - the proposal will be examined before moving on to the articles of the decree-law. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In fact, it's "before." No tricks! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u34	Madam President, I believe that the debate has certainly highlighted certain aspects that we cannot, at least politically, not consider. Of course, there is a preliminary assessment that we have to make and that somehow restricts every possibility of real intervention: the House gives us the text practically a few days after the deadline (Monday expires the deadline for conversion of the decree-law) and therefore many of the suggestions and proposals that have emerged during the debate and that required the time of a more in-depth examination cannot be accepted. However, I believe that politically - Senator Cociancich will then get better on the substance of some issues that could be accepted - some aspects should be noted. I refer, for example, to the latest recommendations contained in Senator Lo Giudice's speech regarding the use of the electronic gun or some suggestions on increased surveillance at the stadiums and on the need to involve the world of education and prevention more socially and culturally. These are extremely important aspects, which certainly do not end up in the conversion of this decree-law. There will be other moments, even shortly, in the parliamentary and legislative affair, when we can intervene. I therefore believe that we must therefore consider these aspects as an essential reference to our forthcoming legislative activity. I would like to make a final comment on the proposals concerning the quantum of sports clubs; I believe that it would have been preferable for there to have been a more precise and precise definition of that quantum, not from 1% to 3%. It is still an insufficient sum, we are well aware of that, but it is certainly a great step forward in relation to the current situation, which marks a starting point on which to develop further interventions. Therefore, with all the limitations of such a measure, which arrives in limine mortis to the debate in the Senate and which reproposes the functionality of the bicameral system, therefore the way in which the Chambers proceed in the ratification of the decree-laws and relations between the two branches of Parliament, I believe that we can gather many of the indications emerged, but that we cannot at this moment translate into concrete decisions regarding this decree. It seems to me, however, that the majority of speeches - and not just the numerical and political majority in this House - have also shown a sharing of the decree-law system, which can therefore be converted by this House today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Cociancich.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u35	Mr President, first let me express my full solidarity with Senator Orellana for the very heinous words that have been spoken in this House. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and Senator Susta.]] At a time when we should all be committed to the reduction of violence, it is annoying to a colleague of ours who has simply freely expressed his vote in this House. To be very brief, I believe that the debate has highlighted the perplexity and discomfort of many. AIROLA (M5S). What are you talking about? Switch from one Commission to another! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please let Senator Cociancich speak. AIROLA (M5S). Faithful, forget it, you gave me a censor and you don't know what for! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Cociancich, go ahead, colleagues are listening. AIROLA (M5S). I'm already censored! Now you have the alibi to do it! COCIANCICH, rapporteur. As Senator Susta said, I believe that the debate has shown a general consensus on the issues dealt with by the measure, but one cannot help but note also a general concern about the introduction of Taser, an electric gun with deterrent effects in the event of demonstrations. From this point of view, agendas have also been presented that I would like to support - I say this here, although we have not yet reached this stage - in so far as it was expected, at the expense of the Government, an obligation to monitor regularly and adequately scientific and comparative tools and methodologies compared to experiences of other countries the effects that the use of Taser determines on the health conditions of the subjects on which it is used, as well as users and to refer them to the competent parliamentary committees within a year. I am referring in particular to the Health and Health Commission, which, among other things, has produced a very detailed and critical report on this subject. I would also urge the Government not to allow the use of Taser on minors or on persons who for other conditions of age or health appear in fragile conditions and in any case use Taser only in situations where it is not possible to employ other deterrent tools, therefore really as an extreme ratio, and with this end. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u36	You have asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen... [[Live comments from FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I remind you of the Rules of Procedure, President! AIROLA (M5S). The rules never apply to her! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've got a record. I would ask you, Mr Orlando, to continue your speech, because the House is listening to you. [[Protests from FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups.]] , Minister of Justice. I put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of the bill n. 1637 of conversion of the decree-law of 22 August 2014, n. 119, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u38	The Presidency notes that the question of trust has been placed on the approval of bill No 1637 of the conversion of Decree-Law No 119 of 22 August 2014, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Lively protests from Senators Crimes and Airola.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The debate cannot continue! (Senator Malan approaches under the Presidency.) President, Rule 93, paragraph 2! You must respect the Rules of Procedure! AIROLA (M5S). President, you must listen to this House! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You're violating the Rules of Procedure! Article 93, paragraph 2! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, which has just been convened, in order to organise the relevant debate. (The sitting was suspended at 11.38 a.m. and resumed at 12.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u39	The Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law violence at the stadiums, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It also approved changes and additions to this week's calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 30 October. Today's afternoon session, for which no closing time is scheduled, will begin at 4 p.m. with the call for the election of a Senator Secretary. Then the ballot boxes will remain open until the beginning of the call on trust. For the general discussion on the issue of trust, one hour was allocated to the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call on the question of trust will therefore start around 7 p.m. The agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting provides for the discussion of the decree-law on civil proceedings, where concluded by the Commission, and the follow-up to the examination of the draft law on defamation. At 10 a.m. the vote will take place, by secret ballot by electronic procedure, on the resignation presented by Senator Ghedini. If Parliament is not convened in a joint sitting, the Minister for Education, University and Research will answer questions at tomorrow afternoon's Question Time on matters relating to the recruitment of teaching staff in the school and on initiatives to improve the university system. Next week, the Assembly will meet again on Tuesday afternoon, 21 October. In addition to the follow-up to the decree-law on civil proceedings and the possible follow-up to the draft law on defamation, the calendar provides for the President's communications, pursuant to article 126 -bis, paragraph 2 -bis, of the Regulation on the draft law on the reorganization of public administrations, linked to the financial maneuver, as well as the examination of the bill on the civil liability of magistrates, where concluded by the Commission. On Wednesday 22, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council on 24 October. In the week from 28 to 30 October, in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished topics, will be discussed the report of the Anti-Mafia Commission on the formation of the lists of nominations for the European and national elections and the bill of delegation for the reform of the code of the nautical from diporto. The afternoon session on Thursday 30 October will take place with the Minister for the Interior. Finally, the calendar can be supplemented with an information from the Government on recent alluvial events to which will be connected the discussion of motions on the defense of the ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u40	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for October, November and December 2014. - Laws of conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Drawing of law no. 112 - Provisions concerning disciplinary responsibility of magistrates and transfer of office - Drawings of law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Provisions in the matter of corruption, vote of exchange, fake in the budget and money laundering - Drawing of law n. 264 and related - Rules for the establishment and discipline of the mark "company of living heritage" - Drawing of law n. 1119 and related - Amendments to the law n. 47 of 8 February 1948, to the penal code and to the code of criminal procedure in the matter of defamation, defamation by means of the press or by other means of diffusion, injury and condemnation of the plaintiff (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1070 and related - Discipline of civil liability of the magistrates - Drawing of law n. 1167 and related - Delegate to the Government for the reform of the code of nautical diport (final vote with the verification of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u41	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new schedule of proceedings until 30 October 2014: [[Wednesday 15 October ant. h. 9,30-13 - Drawing of law n. 1637 - Decree-Law n. 119 - Violence in stadiums (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 21 October) - Vote for the election of a Senator Secretary (Vote by secret ballot with the system of open ballot boxes) (Wednesday 15, pm.) - Drawing of Law No. 1612 - Decree-Law No. 132 - Civil trial (Ove concluded by the Commission) (Scade on 11 November) - Vote on the resignation submitted by Senator Rita Ghedini (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Thursday 16, at 10 a.m.) - Following bill No. 1119 and related - Defamation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 16 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 16 October pom. h. 16 (*) - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Education, Universities and Research on: - questions concerning the recruitment of teaching staff in the school; - initiatives for the improvement of the university system (*) Where Parliament is not convened in a joint sitting.]] [[Tuesday, October 21 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to bill no. 1612 - Decree-Law no. 132 - Civil trial (Scade on 11 November) - Follow-up to bill No. 1119 and related - Defamation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 24 October 2014 (Wednesday 22) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the draft law no. 1577 - Reorganisation of public administrations (Linked to the financial maneuver) - Drawing of law no. 1070 and related - Civil liability of magistrates (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 23 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1070 and related (Civil responsibilities of judges) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, October 28 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to bill n. 1070 and related - Civil liability of magistrates (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Possible follow-up to unfinished topics - Doc. XXIII, n. 3 - Report of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission on the formation of lists of candidatures for the European and national elections - Drawing of law n. 1167 and related - Delegate reform code nautical from diporto (final vote with the verification of the quorum) Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 30 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for the Interior]] The amendments to the bill n. 1167 and related (Delega reforma codice nauticala da di di diporto) will have to be submitted by 1 p.m. on Monday 27 October. The calendar can be supplemented with an information from the Government on recent alluvial events to which will be connected the discussion of motions on the defense of the ground. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1612 (Decree-Law No 132 - Civil process) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 30' GAL 29' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u42	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as you yourself stated before the interruption, because of the issue of trust, Senator Bernini and I have made a written request that we do not move to the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states that the question referred for a preliminary ruling and the question referred for a preliminary ruling do not allow the discussion to continue before they are examined. You, however, knowing that the Government would put its trust, gave the floor to the representative of the Government and, at the time when he put his trust, at that point, rightly, the other things go on their own. It is right to respect the part of the Rules of Procedure that gives the Government the power to put the question of trust, with what follows, but it is also right that the Senate has its prerogatives. Article 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure should therefore also apply. I do not extend or use any particular tone on this, but I would just like to remind you that the violation of the rules has consequences, almost never the desired ones. Some people think that they can act in this way only when they are in a position to violate them and that, thanks to this, they will never have to suffer the consequences. I hope that my political side will commit itself never to violating the Rules of Procedure, even if it has been done before. There is the risk, in doing so, of giving space to those who prefer to use methods other than the application of the Rules of Procedure or the ordinary observance of the rules. Let us remember that the inventor of the guillotine died, as well as the one who introduced it and used it extensively in the French order. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u45	I would like to point out that there has been no violation of the Rules of Procedure and that the case provided for in Article 96 is different from the case of Article 93, paragraph 2, now referred to by Senator Malan. I said the same exactly after the two senators had submitted the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u48	I would ask those who leave the Chamber not to disturb Senator Moronese. MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, as a 5 Star Movement we have repeatedly expressed our opinion on the absolute ineffectiveness of Decree-Law No 136 of 2013 (so-called decree on the Land of Fires), which the Government presented as an immediate solution. Moreover, ten months after the conversion into law of that decree, even the measures we considered inadequate (and which still are) have not been applied. Of the phrases with effect, of the beautiful speeches, of the words of circumstance, the citizens of Campania and the Italians are tired. That is why I want to inform this House that we have tabled Question 3-01282 on composting centres in Campania. In view of the very salty fines that we have been subjected to in Europe for the disastrous management of waste in Campania, given that composting centres are indispensable to manage the wet fraction, which represents 30% of the municipal waste produced, we ask the Minister to let us know, in relation to the composting centres present in Campania, what are working; the reasons why some are ready but not started; what is to date the state of the work of those not yet completed and the forecast dates of completion; because, of the centres provided for in the regional plans, some are still only on paper and, for these, when the work is expected to start. Finally, we ask you to know what the expected costs were and what, to date, the costs actually incurred, even for the structures under construction. I would like to ask the Minister an urgent and timely answer to the questions asked, because the citizens are tired of chatter and promises. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u51	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I rise on an issue which I, together with my colleague Mr Catalfo, had already put to the attention of the House, through the presentation of an agenda and which is therefore waiting for a quick solution. The agenda to which I refer was, moreover, accepted, committing the Government to address this issue in the law of stability. In fact, the Senate Chamber, on 29 October 2013, during the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, with urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations, made some changes to the text. In particular, regarding the famous gold advices within public-sector companies, the Senate Chamber approved an amendment to put a stop to the golden goodwill of the executives, also deleting the measures, originally provided for in the decree, on mobility between companies directly or indirectly participated by the public authorities. Again with regard to these companies, the measure in question (Article 3, paragraph 7-b) provides that managers who, on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree, are entitled to a retirement or old-age pension, whose pension has already been paid out, cease their employment relationship improbably at 31 December 2013 if the employers have closed the last loss-making year, with express prohibition - for the company itself - to cover with new assumptions the positions that have become vacant as a result of such termination. The purpose of the agenda presented on this point was not to distort the ratio of the rule just mentioned, opening the field to interpretations that would frustrate the aim pursued by the legislator. Therefore, we asked, precisely for the purpose just stated and having in particular a significant reduction of the burdens for the companies in loss, a prompt and clarifying intervention of the Government aimed at avoiding the application of the contractual institute of the notice and, therefore, to avoid the risk of determining additional burdens on the public companies and, at the same time, improper and illegitimate. However, it is certain that this risk has become a reality: indeed, a number of litigations have been instituted by the managers in question to obtain additional compensation precisely as an allowance for notice. In particular, the Government was asked to assess whether the deadline of 31 December 2013 as the deadline for the termination of the above-mentioned contracts by employers with the last loss-making financial year could also be considered useful for the determination of the notice allowance. Well, the Government, almost a year later, despite the commitment made in this regard through the adoption of the agenda in question, has not yet taken stock of the matter. It is necessary to remedy urgently in order to provide, also to the judges, a clear interpretation of the rules cited in this intervention so as to avoid unnecessary, reckless and long disputes on the subject to the exclusive detriment of the employers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-331.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
