ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u8	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like a few moments to remind you of Senator Umberto Cappuzzo, who has disappeared in recent days. This morning his funerals are celebrated in Rome. General Cappuzzo was Chief of Staff of the Army and Commander General of the Carabinieri Army. For two legislatures he was a member of the Senate of the Republic. He was a leading exponent of the military world. I think it is right that we should remember this in the Senate House, of which he was a member, for his contribution, as legislator and as military, to the activities of our institutions. It seems necessary to remember the disappearance of Umberto Cappuzzo and pay homage to his memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u10	In keeping with the word I gave yesterday to Senator Bignami, who spoke in this Chamber to recall the recent tragedy in the Sicilian Channel, I propose to the House a minute's silence, in order to remember the victims of the shipwreck, and also the disappearance of Senator Cappuzzo. [[He stands up, and with him the whole Assembly, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1430. The rapporteur, Senator Puglisi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating here today provides for a plurality of urgent measures aimed at ensuring the continuity of the current school service, preventing organisational and administrative malfunctions and court disputes from endangering its smooth functioning. In particular, in Article 1, the decree aims to end the year for the 112 school leaders of Tuscany who, winners of the 2011 competition, will have to repeat, following the decision of the Council of State, part of the competition. I would like to remind you that this competition, launched in the Gelmini era on a regional basis and concluded during the Ministry of Perfume, has been cancelled by the administrative judge. In the interest of competitive renewal, managers who have already been declared winners and have been working in Tuscan schools for two years would have been removed from the managerial functions, now in progress, to be assigned in supernumerary to the institutions of origin, determining the need to resort to the institute of regency and hindering a rational planning of the transfer of teachers for the following school year, also risking that the acts carried out in the exercise of the office can be declared ineffective for the principle of administrative continuity. But it's not the only region where we have problems. The TAR of Abruzzo has ordered the cancellation of the ranking of the winners, but so far the Council of State has suspended the sentence. In Lombardy, after the publication of the ranking of the winners, the Council of State decided to use the drafts by a new examining committee and approved a new ranking. The Molise TAR suspended the competition procedure in the final phase, but the administration appealed to the Council of State. On the other hand, the TAR rejected administrative appeals in Calabria and Campania. Not only that, to date are still open several disputes in different regions that drag from the previous competition of 2004. This is why in Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, "Education restarts," we decided to reform the recruitment of school leaders, moving to the national competition course, no longer on a regional basis, at the School of Public Administration. Without prejudice to the judgments adopted by the administrative judge, the decree, therefore, aims to ensure that in Tuscany and in the other regions affected by similar disputes, the school directors already appointed continue to perform medium-time the functions to which they have been assigned in the respective assignments until the renewal and completion of the competition procedures. The particularly hateful thing in the case of Tuscan school leaders, who now work in the offices assigned to them for two years and in the case of Lombardy, is that the cancellation of recruitment procedures took place for reasons entirely attributable to procedural errors made by the administration, since there was no dispute about the "merit" of the winners, to whom no liability can be charged. It is with this awareness that the Education Commission has worked. I would like to thank all my colleagues, the President of the Commission and the offices that have worked with us and also the Undersecretary Reggi, who has followed the whole process of discussing the measure. The Education Commission has worked with the difficult, unanimously shared task of finding a solution that would not call into question a judgment of administrative justice, but at the same time protect the right of the citizens who participated in a competition resulting in winners and that if they have seen it canceled because of procedural errors of the administration. For this reason, the Commission has approved an amendment extending the permanence of Tuscan managers to guide institutions until the end of the school year in which the competition will be renewed in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Council of State, in order to safeguard the continuity of the leadership of Tuscan schools. Moreover, it establishes that by December 31, 2014 the first round of the new national competition course for the recruitment of school managers, wanted by Decree No 104 of 2013, in which there will be a reserved fee for all those subjects who have open disputes with the administration from the 2004 competition and who will assign to those who have already performed years of service (the Tuscan managers and the managers in charge) an additional score. The Commission has also approved an agenda which commits the Government to rapidly renew the cancelled competition and to apply the above-mentioned reserve fees for the new course, which is a competition for entry and exit, considering the possibility of reducing to a minimum the movements of premises for those who already perform the functions of school manager in order to facilitate continuity in the direction of school autonomy. We know that this solution does not entirely satisfy the Tuscan leaders, but other ways we had explored, in agreement with the social partners, have received the negative opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because they had profiles of unconstitutionality. It is not possible, in fact, to include in a decree-law the modalities of renewal of a procedure that will subsequently be established. The administration asked the Council of State how this renewal should be carried out, and therefore we could not introduce ex ante into the decree a procedure which will then be defined by the Council of State, otherwise in the event of differences, in fact, would be annulled. Article 2 of the decree aims to allow the educational institutions of Campania and Sicily, in which the Consip Convention is not yet active, since a final contractor for the assignment of cleaning services and other auxiliary services has not yet been identified, to purchase the same from the groups of companies that carried them out until 31 March 2014. In this case too - of course, the House must confirm this - the Commission approved an amendment extending this deadline to 31 December 2014 in order to avoid having to make a new decree to renew the extension periods, if the final allocation has not been there, and allocates 150 million euros for the maintenance of the decorum and functionality of the buildings, allowing the school managers of the Regions themselves (Campania and Sicily) to carry out the interventions, using the same companies that have carried out the service to date, in order to preserve the school managers themselves from possible undue pressures. The Commission has also approved an agenda calling on the Government to assess the effects of the new methods of school cleaning on schools. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Esposito Giuseppe and Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is there anything more strategic for a country than the formation of its citizens? I don't think there is, and investing in school means strengthening the future of a country; it means looking beyond, for once. That is why I warmly welcomed, as a sign and a symbol of a vision of the future, the Government's attention to the subject of the right to study. The Government, and in particular President Matteo Renzi, with visits to schools and appropriations for school construction, has immediately given an unequivocal signal of attention. The decree that we are dealing with, as the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi has pointed out, is another good sign. This decree that we are going to approve therefore fits into a broader design and is only apparently marginal. It is a pity that today the Minister is not present, because the Senate, the competent Commissions, have made an essential contribution to the improvement of the decree itself. In fact, there are two issues that have led to serious uncertainties and inconveniences in recent years, affecting teaching, the relationship with students and families. Overall, we begin to see a change of course and therefore a great hope. Those who have to do with the everyday life of the school world cannot fail to be interested in these problems, which disturb the lives of our school communities. The two problems are finally being dealt with seriously. On these issues I have proposed questions and, together with my colleague Tomaselli and others, amendments to the text, with strong solicitations from my territory, Abruzzo, where in the precarious, services and cleaning, operate more than 800 people and some tens are the school leaders involved in the 2004 competition. Really important for my region and for the others where these problems were created go to face them. I would therefore like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Marcucci, for his attention, expertise and listening ability, and the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, who, by accepting the reasons for the amendments, has been able to produce an excellent synthesis with extreme quality. But now the Government follows every component of the decree and also checks what is required on the proposed agenda and approved in the Commission. The problems open in the world of school are numerous and often they are real gangrenes, which have been dragging for years with hallucinating litigation courts that not a few times (and what is dealt with in the decree is one of these cases) risk to block the activity in the schools of Italy. The decree-law addresses and begins to solve these problems, poisoned by errors of previous governments, underestimations, superficiality, which have enchanted them over time and which, unsolved, would risk undermining the conclusion of the school year. The decree therefore is absolutely consistent with the government programme and addresses issues that if, not resolved, would have additional and serious social and economic consequences: schools without executives and with delegitimatized acts, in one case, dirty schools and workers and workers in the middle of a street. With the decree it is decided to ensure a regular completion of the school year, guaranteeing continuity to the managers waiting for the new competition, and the extension of the services, in the ways indicated by the rapporteur Puglisi, in those Regions that have not yet activated the Consip conventions, but asking for a careful verification in the others of what is happening. The story of school leaders is a disturbing telenovela that risks not guaranteeing the managerial exercise in Italian schools. We all know what happens in a school with weak or even absent direction. The chaos was caused by the judicial annulment of the competition procedure for the quota of school managers. I followed in particular the Abruzzo affair, where the TAR cancelled the ranking of the winners of the competition, but then the Council of State, following the appeal proposed by the administration, suspended the sentence. All this generated a real chaos, indeed, in the management of many schools and certainly bitterness in the operators who had regularly competed and had thought they had achieved an important professional and life goal. Crazy and diversified cases also in Lombardy, Molise, Marche, Campania, Calabria and then in Tuscany, where even a third of the schools would risk not having their own school manager. Then comes the decree-law, with the appropriate additions of the amendments adopted in the Commission. The aim is to end the school year to the school leaders of Tuscany who, winners of the 2011 competition, will have to repeat, after the decision of the Council of State, part of the contest. For these reasons and for the others indicated in the intervention that I attach, not only will the Democratic Party approve the measure, but we believe that we have made an essential improvemental contribution to the Government's proposal. The hope is that this decree will follow the other important initiatives present in the Minister's project and in the program of this Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u17	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u18	Mr President, the epilogue of the competition for school leaders is the further testimony of which and how many problems the world of school afflicts, which, far from playing a social guarantee role, has become the symbol of precariousness. The decree issued by the Council of Ministers is essentially intended to keep in service, until the end of the school year, the 112 winners of the selection made in Tuscany. It is, in every case, an attempt to remedy, through a palliative, the events inherent in the competition procedure for 2,386 places as school manager, banned in July 2011. The distortions produced by the competition in question, under the scrutiny of the regional administrative courts, are many and of different nature, such as the exclusion of several teachers from the evidence, the cancellation, a few days after the initial test, of 975 questions out of 5,500 published by the MIUR, the administration of incorrect tests, in proportions that are around 40 percent, the choice of semi-transparent envelopes containing the data of the candidates, up to the choice of sybilline of the members of the commissions with incompatibility of role. The Government's intervention aims to prevent the interruption of the service by the managers in the seats assigned to them and to avoid the effects of the acts carried out in the performance of their duties; a ridiculous measure, if it is considered that in June the Council of State could arrange for the renewal of the national procedure. In short, the decree-law in question intervenes to remedy yet another buzz-up against the school. Let's remember the story of the return of the famous 150 euros by the teachers because of the error made by the MIUR and the MEF. Even today, as then, you find yourself having to patch up an important tear through an exhilarating silk filament. It adopts, in essence, the technique of the cut and sew that is limited to giving a semblance of regularity where it lacks. The way in which managers and all school staff are recruited must be reviewed. It would be necessary to carefully assess the indispensable human attitudes and qualities that school workers must possess in order to perform the tasks they are called upon to perform. The school is the cradle of society and those who set themselves up as teachers, educators or managers must live up to the burden without doubt. With regard to cleaning services in schools and their regular fulfilment, it is necessary to point out that in the regions where the Consip conventions are active, there have been many problems both in terms of the employment of the personnel of the cleaning companies, as well as in terms of the quality of the services provided, as well as in terms of the state budget. It is now clear that the policy linked to the Council Conventions only accentuates precariousness, both for socially useful workers and for ATA staff. It must be reconsidered once and for all that the outsourcing mechanism, as well as the need to strengthen the staff of school workers, must be a guarantee for the functionality of the service provided. The school, in essence, must return to being a centre of reference and a stable point of arrival for society today and tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 58 of 2014 was truly providential, because it provided us with the opportunity not only to address the specific problem raised by the school leaders of Tuscany, who risked creating malfunctions in the proper performance of the school service, but also to address the most comprehensive question of the consequences of the partial or total cancellation of competitions for the recruitment of school leaders from 2004. And in fact, in 2004 a public competition was launched for the allocation of 1,500 places of school manager. Following the completion of the evidence, in several regions of Italy an avalanche of judicial appeals followed, leading to final judgments of annulment of the competitions by the Council of State and, in Sicily, the CGA. The main reasons for the annulment decisions are errors on the part of the administration. Therefore, teachers who at the time supported the competitions and those of them who were declared winners or fit are not to blame for the mistakes made by others. However, where competition has been envisaged, the paradoxical situation has arisen that many winners of the first procedure have not been confirmed as winners in the renewal. Therefore, it has been necessary for some time to regularise the existing situation and this has been an excellent opportunity, thanks to the work of patience and intelligence carried out by the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, and to the great listening and coordination capacity of the Commission and President Marcucci. The examination of this decree allowed to bring to the attention of the 7th Commission and the Minister the peculiar situation that came to be determined by the Sicilian school leaders, who, with Law No 202 of 2010, were addressed to norms that provided for the renewal of competition, having already taken place the final judgments of the judiciary that sanctioned the annulment of the competition banned in 2004. However, the competition procedure of 2010 has proved to be a worse remedy than evil in Sicily, since instead of eliminating the judicial dispute it has expanded, paralyzing everything. It has not been easy, therefore, to adequately represent the situation of so many people who have been calling for policy intervention for many years to restore equity and justice. And yet we have done so, with tenacity, constancy and with the confidence that sooner or later we will be able to find in the Commission, as we have done after repeated attempts and confrontations, the key to a unified reading of this long-standing problem and a proposal for a convincing solution. I have to say that there has been a great deal of work in the Commission and, as I said, the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, in the reformulated text of amendment 1.22, comes to a synthesis of satisfaction, ensuring that the question of school leaders, which in many regions of our country and in particular, as far as I am concerned, in Sicily was a problem, finds a very good solution in the Commission thanks to the rapporteur's proposal. In fact, providing reserved quotas, albeit with a proportional condition, is a response of justice to all those who had remained in the ford in recent years. We therefore hope that the next phase will finally see the Government committed to respecting the time of issue (31 December 2014) of the new ban for the national competition, pursuant to Decree no. 104 of 2013 that, in addition to guaranteeing the appropriate quotas of the reserved seats to the participants of the cancelled contests, cheques precisely correct proportions, Region after Region. This was an opportunity to focus on a very difficult condition that lives the world of school, starting from its recruitments. No one escapes that running the school today is an increasingly important function. The extension of the powers entrusted to school leaders by the rules on school autonomy must move us to devote ourselves more and better to a topic on which largely depends the educational success of students and therefore of our country. In fact, school leaders, in addition to being responsible for the management of the financial and instrumental resources of the school, have the fundamental task of managing human resources, of coordinating them, of valorizing them; they have the task of being corifei of a correct training that fascinates students in respect of the many difficulties that up to now has had the world of school. I hope that the way in which this decree is offered, with a series of careful and intelligent solutions put to the attention of the House, may be the beginning of a reorder, which we all hope is fundamental, of the world of school. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u21	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree under consideration stems from the need to resolve two urgent problems for the Government: the first concerns the consequences of the cancellation of certain regional competitions as a result of administrative disputes, while the second concerns the situation of socially useful workers employed in the cleaning of schools (the so-called LSU). It refers in particular to the school managers of Tuscany, in which a recent decision of the Council of State annulled the competition procedure by 112 out of 483. In 2011 a competition was launched for the recruitment of 2,386 school managers, since there was a real need for these figures, since many schools for years used the so-called regencies, with executives performing the function in several schools at the same time, with the inconveniences that we all know. In several Italian regions there have unfortunately been some appeals in this regard, which have called into question the results of the competition. Similar Vicende also concerned Abruzzo, where the TAR ordered the cancellation of the ranking of the winners, but the Council of State suspended the judgment following the appeal made by the administration. In Lombardy, the Council of State has ordered a new correction of the drafts by a different examining committee, which has already approved the new ranking. In Molise, the TAR suspended the final phase of the competition procedure, but the administration appealed to the Council of State. Finally, in Calabria and Campania, the TAR rejected administrative appeals concerning the rankings already approved. The decree-law in question thus allows the school leaders already appointed to continue to perform their duties, until the renewal of the competition takes place, and confirms the acts put in place by them. If this were not the case, it is clear that there would be situations of great difficulty in the school organization. However, it must be pointed out that this is yet another buffer measure, with the usual sanatoria of contests cancelled because badly set. The justification given, namely that the sanatorium of school managers is carried out for the regular conclusion of the school year, is clearly in contradiction with the content of the proposal itself. In fact, the extension of the stay in service is carried out well beyond the end of the school year, to reach 31 August 2014, probably -unless further future extensions, through future decrees - until the next competition. We believe that now is the time to finally tackle the problem at its root. It is already well known the issue - very much felt in the North - of the Regions where, despite the good average level of preparation, certified by international investigations, too many candidates to the school leadership do not pass the tests of suitability, with the risk that for the vacant posts take yet another measure that allows the transfer of colleagues from the South, where the suitability abounds. We ask ourselves the reasons for this phenomenon. For some time now, the North League has been proposing a review of the recruitment system for school managers, based on the one proposed for the recruitment of teachers, based on regional rankings. Among other things, we want to make it very clear that these are regional rankings. The access to the place, after having chosen in absolute freedom the Region where to apply, in compliance with the Constitution and the European norms, in maximum freedom, must depend on the position on the list on the basis of a score largely acquired subjecting to an in-depth evaluation on equal conditions with the other members in that Region. We believe that this constitutes a concrete way of overcoming the problem of uneven evaluation on the territory, taking into account the importance of the knowledge of the territory where one chooses to carry out his activity. I remember that this is an activity that leads to managing a local community with different roles and sensibilities because that of the school manager is not only a job, but has many other functions. In wishing that the Government as soon as possible - as was the case on other occasions, as for example for the entrance tests to maturity where the Minister is finally approaching the positions assumed for some time by the North League, that is, the abolition of the tests with evaluation of the results after the first year of graduation, according to the so-called French model - we marry the system of regional recruitment of teachers and school leaders, we cannot fail to ask loudly an effective commitment of the Government to renew the competition as a matter of urgency, so that from the beginning of the next school year the definitive allocation of heads of schools is ensured, without creating problems to the continuity of educational and administrative institutions. We are absolutely opposed to any possibility of sanatoria and we hope that the Government will not choose, instead, in the future, this road which, while appearing simpler and less expensive, would risk triggering a new wave of appeals. Coming to Article 2, the text shows that in Campania and Sicily the competitions of the Council for cleaning services and other auxiliary services in schools have not yet been concluded and, therefore, always in order not to create heavy disservices to school users, in these Regions, the schools will be able to continue to purchase this type of services from the enterprises or cooperatives that have insured them until 31 March last, provided that under the same conditions provided for by the Consip Convention. The problem of external procurement of cleaning and auxiliary services has been mentioned for many years in the recruitment of so-called LSU staff (socially useful jobs) through cooperatives or other external agencies. The Ministry of Education, University and Research, however, when these contracts occur, reduces the number of auxiliary staff in schools, in order to maintain an invariance of expenditure. This system has not yet given rise to any kind of savings, but it has caused considerable organizational dysfunctions, also for the diversification of the various employment contracts. It is therefore appropriate to have a definitive solution, which cannot be that of entrusting contracts to a new contracting entity, namely the Council. It is now clear that the use of socially useful workers is a negative solution. In this way contracts are distributed to cooperatives, often close to the unions, with corresponding reduction of the staff of the state janitors, who have different skills, because in addition to cleaning, they also carry out monitoring activities of the pupils, making easily and clearly identifiable the responsibilities of any shortcomings. These cooperatives, on the other hand, provide a service limited almost exclusively to cleaning, which is usually of dubious quality. In fact, in order to win contracts at the lowest price, they must forcefully lower the standard of services and the professional level of the employees. In conclusion, Mr President, while considering the need and urgency, especially for school users who would be heavily sacrificed if these rules were not to be approved, we cannot, as a North League, consider very negatively the continuous recourse of the Government, or rather of the successive governments, to the urgent decree aimed at solving problems that have been on the table for years, such as the one on cleaning services in schools. It would be appropriate not to continue to patch up a system that is now proven to work worse and worse, but rather to commit to finding a solution that meets the needs of saving expenditure with the quality of service; a solution that certainly does not pass from contracts constantly allocated and always to the same companies, that often make sign and that, in order to contain the costs, provide less and less hours of work, to the detriment of the pupils forced to study in increasingly dirty schools. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the examination of a measure that once again puts a patch at a mess that has been created and that sees the lack of a strategy in this country that enhances the education system. There are two very different events between the school managers and the cleaning contracts, the details of which have been explained extensively by both the rapporteur and the previous colleagues. I would therefore like to focus on two important aspects which have probably not been sufficiently detailed in these speeches. The first is the matter of the principals. I remember that the 112 Tuscan garrisons, who are currently in service and who have been cancelled a competition, are currently victims of what happened, because the reason for the annulment is absurd, paradoxical: the administration forgot to send a telegram when it was a question of replacing an examination commissioner. Not that the Commissioner who was then replaced is illegal in itself. Simply, the administration did not comply with certain procedures in the appointment. The examination was then carried out regularly, for this reason the principals are blameless victims. But this immediately poses a problem, because if we wanted to confirm in some way these 112 garrisons in their place without carrying out a competition would incur a conflict of powers. Parliament should, in fact, legislate, intervene on the substance - as you think - of a decision of the Council of State. Therefore, we are faced with the most classic example of conflict of powers. If this line were to pass, which would safeguard the principals who were harmed to them despite it, a very serious vulnus would immediately open up, for which they could magically put back, suddenly questioning the final sentences of the judiciary. That is why we went to the Commission with our feet full of lead, just to put it mildly. We tried not to open this vulnus, at the same time trying to safeguard the position of those school leaders who are actually employed and whose decadence would immediately lead to a major problem of continuity in the school service. A solution has been found in the Commission with the cooperation of the Government. For once, Parliament has played a positive role, because it went beyond the initial decree-law, which merely meant that these garrisons should remain in their place. We went to the merits of the procedure with which new competitions must be held (in particular, with reference to Article 17 of Decree-Law No 104 of 12 September 2013 on courses-competitions) providing a reserved quota that probably represents a fair compromise between the needs of school leaders and the big problem represented by the conflict of powers that would have opened in case the solution had been much, much softer. Coming to the story underlying Article 2 and relating to cleaning contracts, in it - perhaps this has not been grasped - there is the failure of the social state in this country. We have a problem with the fact that some workers (more than 12,000) have had employment problems following the conclusion of the Council contracts (which, as I recall, allow expenditure to be reduced, but have caused a major employment problem), as well as the problem of externalisation. According to the false myth of capitalism such externalizations produce restraint of expenditure and greater efficiency, but that is not the case. This is not the case in all sectors: it is not the case in education, it is not the case in other sectors. Externalisations have caused and continue to cause (this shows) a deterioration in the quality of services and an employment problem. In this case, these 12,000 LSU workers immediately found themselves in the middle of a road and, once again, not being in this country - and this is the real problem - a real social state, which protects the weakest sections of the population (I refer, for example, to a possible guaranteed minimum income), since there is no social cover, the Government had to find 150 million euros and prolong the solution of outsourcing only a couple of years, that is the duration of the Council conventions. The problem, in fact, will recover on time. This decree, in Article 2, is not the definitive solution for these people, who will remain in a state of uncertainty relative to their job. What should be done? The solution should be another: we should go towards internalisations, especially in the field of education, which, among other things, already includes professional figures employed in cleaning services (school workers). Let us remember that in the face of 12,000 LSU workers who might end up in the middle of a street, there are 12,000 other ATA workers, whose seats have been set aside and who have never served in the school. Think, then, of the conflict that is contained in this provision: 24,000 people who see their future conditioned by wrong political choices, carried out fourteen years ago (the story is even dragged by a law of 1999). Mr President, the solution we have found with regard to cleaning contracts cannot be the final one; we must broaden the speech, finally put our hands on the social state and guarantee to all workers and citizens a job worthy of this name. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S and Senator Marcucci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u26	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today this House is once again obliged to discuss a measure which hastily attempts to remedy one of the many emergencies in the school sector: the annulment by many regional administrative courts of the entire regional competition procedure for the recruitment of 2386 school managers. These decisions have proved necessary, in the light of the obvious errors that have characterized the management of the entire competition. Magazines and inaccuracies (but in many situations they are euphemisms), which can be considered as a direct consequence of the superficiality and lack of transparency that has characterized, throughout the national territory, the selection procedures. We go from the incredible early resignation in Tuscany of the President of the competition before the latter was completed, which led the TAR to call into question the appointment of 112 school leaders, to the countless and, unfortunately now almost normal, leaks of news on the contents of the pre-elective test, passing through the errors that characterized as many as 38 percent of the quizzes administered to the candidates, the incompatibility of role of some of the members of the examining commissions and the choice of semi-transparent envelopes in which the candidates had to insert their personal data. Formal defects and shortcomings which, in fact, forced several regional administrative courts to rule on numerous disputes and to accept the applicants' claims. Today, with the conversion of this decree-law, we are again called to buffer yet another emergency. Yesterday morning in the Commission, an amendment proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, was voted on, stating that by 31 December 2014 the first round of the national competition course for the recruitment of school managers to cover the holidays of staff of the regions for which the ranking has been exhausted. During the debate in the Commission, it was recognised that there was a need to allocate the shares of posts to be reserved for those already winning, i.e. usefully placed in the competition rankings subsequently cancelled in court, as well as for those who have a pending dispute linked to the competition for school managers, which was launched by a directorial decree. But later this need to define precisely and punctually the number of posts within the quotas to the various categories of workers involved in the measure has not been confirmed, relegating it to an agenda that we hope will be respected by the Government. It is necessary to go beyond the approach that has always characterized the matter, rethinking the recruitment methods and ensuring a real, meticulous observance. With regard to Article 2 of the decree in question, concerning the correct performance of auxiliary and cleaning services, I would like to make a broader consideration: from the experiences experienced in various fields, which in many cases demonstrate the absence of real convenience, as savings are considered, but not the quality-cost ratio, I believe that it is necessary to consider the opportunity to review the system of awarding contracts based on the Council and, more generally, on mechanisms and procedures for outsourcing, ensuring that schools have full decision-making autonomy in the choice of companies that will have to ensure the performance of auxiliary and cleaning services within buildings. Respecting popular sovereignty also means respecting the possible decisions of each institution and of each social reality. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u28	Mr President, I will be absolutely brief. The simple view of the panorama that outlines in Italy the functioning of the public administration makes the wrists tremble. This lapalissian consideration, which risks to lend its side to the vulgate that politics in recent years is the field in which banality sprout and grow, is so pernicious to the operation of the administrative machine that it harms its prestige and the credibility of those who operate within it. The state, the idea of a state made of citizens with their rights and duties, is the cost of this: a state that is an organized political form of nation, our nation. It has happened that over the years a competition to cover the vacant places of the organizational summits of our public education, that is the institutes placed on the national territory, has become paradigm of the inefficiency of the public administration. The competition concerns the coverage of 2,386 places of school manager throughout Italy, from the Alps to the islands. Everything has happened: procedural flaws, recourse to regional administrative courts, defences, decisions of the Council of State. Only some regions have survived; others, unfortunately, in recent years have experienced the precariousness of administrative appeals. Already, the school leaders: this is something we should talk about in the general debate, because in fact we think we can express ourselves with a sufficiently positive assessment, because then it puts the pieces into a recent history, which is now almost ten years long. We are talking about school leaders. Without prejudice to the observation on the often complementary work of the inefficiencies of the service of the public education, I personally regret the times when they were defined as principals or didactic directors. It is not only a matter of form, but of enormous substance. There was Italian tradition in those names. There was a sort of representation of national educational institutions. There was a tangible desire to embody the supreme act of teaching, the transfer of knowledge and skills. There was Italian culture and national history, especially linked to the events of the post-unit state organization. But in Italy, at some point in our republican history, we lost the compass and delivered ourselves, weapons and luggage, fashionable names and modernism. All principals have become executives in the context of the desired, but poorly defined, process of school businessization. The principals are now manager, and I don't know how many are happy with these prestiditism games. The principals are now officials, i.e. bureaucrats. It would be desirable for them to return seriously to take care of education in the full sense of the term and to form the front office of an important segment of the path of growth of Italian democracy, in the delicate task of forming the ruling class of tomorrow and helping to get the nation out of the dry land. The measure we are considering today is appropriate in order to restore a form of hope to the precariousness of our front office in the field of education and education. Therefore, the proposed solution can be travelled. We all hope, however, that it will not generate further instrumental recourses to those who do not want the smooth functioning of school years. Mr President, in Article 2 of the Decree-Law under consideration, we can see a delay in the possibility of outsourcing the cleaning and auxiliary services of schools. Therefore, be careful, make sure that the school buildings are decorated. Safety, hygiene and health must be given to students, families and school workers. There is no question of internalising the human resources involved in sanitation services. The state administrative machinery must be streamlined and not weighed down by new recruitments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u30	Mr President, I followed with great apprehension the story of Tuscan school leaders, ascended to the chronicles of the major local newspapers precisely because of its grotesque character to say the least. That is what I wanted to say and, precisely because of the importance and the need for swift approval of the decree, I would ask you, Mr President, to be able to give my speech so that it can be annexed to the acts. However, I would like to say a few words about the Tuscan affair, which is paradoxical. A measure was needed to restore the good performance of the Tuscan school administration which, in this situation, exposed itself to a severe blow from the point of view of the proper direction of the institutions, as well as the individual educational projects and programmes affected by this grotesque impasse. It is not a matter of not wanting to respect a judgment, but of calibrating its effects, so as to respect the demands of all the parties involved. I believe that this decree and the amendments tabled to the Commission go in this direction and that, when it comes to deregulation, the issues still unresolved and the questions still open can be addressed. Finally, I would like to thank Senator Marcucci and Senator Puglisi for their work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u31	The Presidency authorizes you to give your speech, which will be appended to today's report. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene, I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing them - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.8, 1.10, 1.11, 1.12, 1.9, 1.14, 1.17, 1.18 and 1.19; otherwise, the opinion is against this. I call for Amendment 1,22 to be put aside (text 2). The opinion was in favour of agendas G1,1000, G1,100 and G1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u33	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u34	Senator Mazzoni, do you withdraw Amendment 1.1? Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Yeah, I'm gonna pick it up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u35	In view of the debate in the Commission (in this case having set a time limit for issuing the competition course), I accept the rapporteur's request and withdraw amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u36	Amendment 1.22 (text 2) is set aside. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SERRA (M5S). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Serra, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.4 is withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petraglia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (ex art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Will you pick it up, Senator Scavone? SCAVONE (GAL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 1.7 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I'll ask Senator Liuzzi what he intends to do. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petraglia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (ex art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.11 and 1.12 are impervious, and Amendment 1.13 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Liuzzi, what are you going to do? LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 1,100, 1,101, 1,102 and 1,103 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petraglia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.15 and 1.16 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Petraglia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (ex art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u39	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, if I insist on voting on this amendment, it is not out of rudeness towards the rapporteur and the Commission as a whole, but because it would be the final solution to the excellent attempt at compromise, which was nevertheless found by the rapporteur. Amendment 1,18, in essence, aims to remedy definitively and to exclude all the disputes that until now have characterized the disorderly going down of competitions, then interrupted in court. With the proposal contained in the amendment all those who, not in quiescence, are in the conditions of dispute with the judiciary and also of litigation with the norms that have been made for the competition renewals are admitted to a national course-competition, from which selection would result the definitive closure of the litigation and the stabilization of the executives in existence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u40	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Scavone, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u42	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u43	PAGE (NCD). I would like to say that, unlike my group, Mr Torrisi and I will vote in favour of this amendment. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (ex art. 102-a Reg.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u44	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.19. on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Pelino, will you pick it up? PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 1.20 and 1.21 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1,1000, G1,100 and G1,101 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.0.7, 1.0.8, 1.0.9, 1.0.10, 1.0.11, 1.0.12, 1.0.13, 1.0.14 and 1.0.15 are unacceptable, while amendments 1.0.100, 1.0.101 and 1.0.102 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u45	Amendment 2.4 lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission: if President Azzollini does not tell us directly in this House, we must put it aside. Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 2.2; otherwise the opinion is against it. Amendment 2,500, which is necessary in order to comply with the comments of the 5th Commission and on which the opinion is obviously in favour, is intended to include in Article 2 the following paragraph: 3 (a.k.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a. The implementation of this Article shall not result in new or increased public finance charges. I call on the presenter of Amendment 2.3 to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. As regards the agenda for G2.100, I propose that the initial part of the system be amended as follows: In view of all this, it commits the Government to consider replacing the mechanism of outsourcing of cleaning services and additional ancillary services with various tools... If the presenter accepts the rewording, the opinion is in favour. I am voting in favour of the G2.101 and G2.102 agenda and against the G2.103 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u46	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u47	Now I have to check the procedure for amendment 2.4. I would like to take advantage of the presence of President Azzollini to ask whether the Budget Commission has given its opinion on Amendment 2.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u48	Our position is clear: at present there is an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. A technical report was requested. The Government has undertaken to send it, but its own position in the Commission has been: if the technical report comes, we will assess it; if it does not come, the opposition to Article 81 remains due to the absence of a technical report. We can't evaluate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u49	We therefore support Amendment 2.4. Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u50	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petraglia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Petraglia and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 2.2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2,500 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u51	We are asking for the vote, also because there was a substantial equality in the Commission, even if the result was negative. We call for an effort for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (ex art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Centinario. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430 PRESIDENT. Senator Bocchino, do you agree to reformulate the agenda of the G2.100 as indicated by the rapporteur? BOCCHINO (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2,100 (text 2), G2,101 and G2,102 will not be put to the vote. Senators Montevecchi and Blund will be satisfied. Senator Bellot, you're less satisfied. BELLOT (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President: we are asking for a roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G2.103. In addition, the Senators of the League Group ask to add the signature to the agenda G2.101. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Bellot, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G2.103, presented by Senator Centinario. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. Colleagues, let us return to the proposed amendments. I call on the Government representative to comment on the rewording requested by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u53	Mr President, since the technical report has just arrived, I would ask you for ten minutes' suspension to examine it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u54	Mr Reggi, we are talking about amendment 1.22 (text 2), on which the Committee on Budgets proposes a reformulation in order to give a favourable opinion, and not the 2.4 on which the report was missing. It's two different things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u55	Mr Reggi, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. Mr President, I would like to ask for a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u56	I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.51 a.m. and resumed at 11.08 a.m.) Colleagues, the sitting is resumed, but only to inform you that a further check is needed: there are only two amendments, but they require further consideration of the possible cover. I therefore suspend the sitting once again. (The sitting was suspended at 11.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I would ask the rapporteur to take account of the reformulation work on the two proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u57	Madam President, following the remarks made by the Budget Committee, I propose the following changes. In Amendment 1.22 (text 2), the following words are inserted after the word "dependent": "who have had a favourable judgment at least in the first instance of judgment or have not, on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law, had no final judgment, and in any case within the maximum limit of the aforementioned reserve of places already authorized for the aforementioned course-competition, "." The text is in distribution. In Amendment 2.4, which was the other on which there were some comments from the Budget Commission, we consider to be deleted paragraphs 2-a, 2-c and 2-d, and paragraph 2-b is amended as follows: In the territories where the Consip Framework Convention has not yet been activated, the state educational and educational institutions shall carry out the operations of maintaining the decorum and functionality of the buildings used for the headquarters of state educational and educational institutions, to be defined in accordance with the procedures referred to in the next CIPE Resolution, within the financial resources available under current legislation, buying the relevant service from the groups and enterprises that provide cleaning services and other auxiliary services on the date of 30 April 2014, the technical conditions provided for in the Consip Convention and the economic conditions equal to the amount of the average award price for each homogeneous area in the regions where the Convention is active.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u58	In view of the situation we are in, I would ask the President of the Commission to give his opinion, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, on both reworded amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u59	Madam President, you must allow me just one minute to renew a request which I have already made in these cases: in the Budget Committee we need to set time limits beyond which reformulations and further revisions are not allowed. In this way we are working at a considerable risk and putting the Budget Commission and its President at a clear risk of being able to make a mistake, in one sense or another. I would ask you - and I have done so on other occasions - to bring this requirement into the Rules of Procedure or to the Conference of the Leaders: a time limit must be set beyond which reformulations or adjustments are no longer possible. In fact, it is quite clear that this is not how Parliament works, and I think that Parliament must work well. Madam President, I would therefore ask you formally, and kindly, to resubmit this request and then to have a time limit, in which I am able to bring the Commission together, to debate carefully and to examine the problems, because it is possible to make mistakes in one sense or another. On the other hand, often we are in situations of current expenditure and, as everyone knows, we have serious public finance problems, to which the President of the Budget Commission has to pay institutional attention. Madam President, this is an issue which I am putting to you, because otherwise I say to all the Presidents of the Commission that I will be forced to use the Rules of Procedure, which allows me, in the face of an amendment, to have eight days to decide. So when you present me with the rewordings - I apologize to all colleagues - I will use the Rules of Procedure: it will take eight days, and then you will decide what to do. However, since this has not been established, I have tried to work on the two amendments before us. On Amendment 2.4 (text 2) the solution is absolutely satisfactory from the point of view of Article 81 of the Constitution. In fact, the whole financial issue has been raised and remains a question of how resources are used under existing legislation, which, as you know, makes us safe. Therefore, on Amendment 2.4 (text 2) I am calmly expressing an opinion of null and void: that was what the technical report was expected to be for, but the points we discussed were exactly those raised, so at this point, in my opinion, there are no problems. The question of amendment 1,22 is different (text 3). The new wording of the rapporteur certainly limits in a very considerable way any possibility of overtaking - which is why I shall give an opinion on this - but in my opinion, while the limit applies to this amendment, it does not protect us from any emulation trends. With all due respect to the senators and senators who represented their problems to me, this situation, in the course of my long parliamentary budgetary experience, has already been repeated countless times, and almost always had a precedent like this. In the light of these considerations, if, from the point of view of Article 81, I express an opinion of nothing prevents the version read by the rapporteur (in particular because there is a maximum number of posts allocated, for which I can well assume that the resources were there), being open disputes, and absolutely open in my opinion, I would always be very careful. To sum up, Madam President, by restricting myself exclusively to the aspects referred to in Article 81 of the Constitution, I give an opinion of nothing, subject to the rewording made by the rapporteur. I repeat my view of the simple opposition to the amendment in general. As you understand, Madam President, the problem of current expenditure in Italy is a very serious one, and in particular the recurrent issues are a problem. In conclusion, and by apologizing for the patience I have abused, Madam President, to put the problem of the rewording times in this House, otherwise the Rules of Procedure will have to be interpreted - summum ius, summa iniuria - in a different way than they are now. That point will have to be interpreted rigidly. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Rossi Luciano and Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u60	I think you're right, President Azzolini. I think we need a statement by the Council, which the Heads of Groups are also aware of, because this presidential power provided for in our Rules of Procedure must be somewhat codified and protected, since, especially in particular cases, it risks making the President of the Commission assume responsibility for the budget and, for the President, for the Commission as a whole, for matters which have not been the subject of further discussion. In any case, today the day is quite peculiar. A synthesis has been found. We take note of this and proceed, therefore, with our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,22 (text 3). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,22 (text 3) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1430 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.4 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.4 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1430
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u63	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the conversion of the decree-law currently under consideration is intended to remedy two emergencies - in some respects paradoxical - which concern as many significant junctions within the school universe. These are two very different emergencies which not only extend for a long time and are likely to have an impact on the smooth running of the school year which has begun at the end, but which have a common denominator for what concerns recruitment: an aspect which increasingly, in the range of its implications, in the face of the ever rising problems involving the teaching body, the school managers or the technical and administrative staff, appears as the problem of the school. As has already emerged in the debate, these are two particularly thorny issues, which are not easy to offer a comprehensive response, but which shows, once again, the approximation and sometimes the indulgence with which one is forced to face the problems of education, further evidence that sometimes reason weakens what it protects. The first question in the field, which concerns Article 1, concerns the annulment of the competition procedure on a regional basis which, as a whole... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u64	Colleagues, if - as I believe - everyone is interested in the fact that the session ends in due time, let's give Senator Montevecchi to intervene, lowering the tone of his voice. I'm asking everyone for some cooperation. Please, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I would say that the first question put in the field, relating to Article 1, relates to the annulment of the competition procedure on a regional basis, which, for a total of 2,386 places of school manager and regularly held, has awarded and placed the winners at their premises. In this respect, however, there is an obligation to note the following. The competitive procedures of the last competition have been invalidated, depending on the regional headquarters to which they refer, for reasons very different from each other: from the administrative vice, which has undoubtedly had penalising and adverse consequences for the winners, to defects of form and procedure, which instead call into question the modalities about the exletation of evidence that, regardless of the outcome, reached to completion, clutter of appeals the administrative courts. The amendment tabled by the rapporteur was intended to renew the competitive procedures, providing - in the sense of the indeterminate "indeterminate" and "vaguage" - for romantic reasons - a quota of seats, a sort of preferential lane, i.e., for three different categories. The point is that these categories are, in fact, assimilated and placed on the same level, without distinction. But what are these three categories? These are the following: 1) subjects already winners, that is usefully placed in the contest rankings subsequently cancelled in court; 2) those who have a pending dispute related to the previous competition for school manager banned in 2004 (here a further rewording of the amendment has distinguished, among them too, a further category and therefore I make an update of the explanation of vote in itinere); 3) those who have had the confirmation of their positions of Presidency after having gained experience of more than three years. As a 5 Star Movement, in the Commission we have tried to place distinctions, quantitative and, therefore, qualitative, within these categories, trying to contrast to an indistinguishable and all-embracing container a criterion of greater transparency and equity, to begin with the issuing of the new ban envisaged. All this in accordance with the principle of good performance and impartiality that we all hope for for the smooth running of the recruitment of school managers after years of irregularities and recourse to the regional administrative courts that have followed for the detection of unlawful behaviour. Similarly, we have tried to operate on the state of total uncertainty that weighs on the cleaning and auxiliary services intended for schools. This is the second aspect of this measure, as referred to in Article 2. The problem arose with regard to the externalisation of cleaning services in school institutions, which led to the adoption, including through the conclusion of conventions with the Council, of solutions that were both complex and ineffective, as we have repeatedly been told in the hearings held in the Commission. Not only have the planned objectives not been achieved in terms of greater efficiency and management economy, but, as a result of the situation that came to be determined, the contracts have been outsourced for the sole purpose of reducing the staff of ATA staff and school collaborators, contracting to the maximum decrease the cleaning to cooperatives that pay hours and with derisory wages their employees. Tell me if this is fair on the part of a state. The essential fact, however, is that externalizations have not produced any savings: in fact, it involves more burdens the contract, often, or almost always, aimed at producing business profits for the usual cooperatives linked to the obsolete dynamics of the party system than the permanent recruitment of the staff and school collaborators necessary to make the service work. The only results achieved on this front were the squandering of public resources and the increase in precariousness, both for ATA staff and for socially useful workers, who should have been stabilised in their stead. At this point, therefore, we have chosen the path of a particularly expensive mediation and which, as I have already said, has produced criticality and inefficiency. Without this intermediary, approximately EUR 74 million per year would have been saved until 2010, approximately EUR 27 million in 2012 and EUR 61 million in 2013. From a MIUR note dating back to January 2005, it is derived that for the about 14,000 former socially useful workers, then employed in the school, the State spent about 400 million euros per year. However, against a salary per worker, calculated on 35 working hours per week, equal to 800 euros per month, firms received a stabilisation contribution of 2,000 euros. As a 5 Star Movement, we have fought strongly, in both branches of Parliament, to eliminate the use of external services in favour of direct recruitment of precarious school workers who guarantee the same tasks at equal costs, but who, above all, would be stabilised and employed on more favourable economic and contractual conditions for the worker than those which he would have with an external firm. For all these reasons, in order not to be accused tomorrow of wanting to put obstacles to the smooth running of the school service, but to mark our disappointment and dissatisfaction with this measure, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote to abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u68	SCAVONE (GAL). Madam President, in order to avoid being ultra-rheavy, since I have already spoken, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms for a measure which has been the result of a work of great commitment and great willingness of the entire Commission. Allow me only one joke (and I know I also interpret the thought of my friend, Senator Barani, sitting on my left): a decree had arrived that concerned a Region, Tuscany (perhaps it was a "marchetta" in his favor); it has become a good intervention that looks at the right expectations of the many school leaders, or such aspirants, who have suffered the uncertainty of the administration and who since 2004 have been waiting for the proper recognition of their commitment and their work for the school. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u71	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few months after the Stability Act, we are once again discussing the delays in Council procurement in some regions of the South of the country: the most sensitive and attractive lots, for the number of workers involved, with the result that, without the intervention of extending the contracts already in place, provided for in this decree, many companies will permanently interrupt the benefits, resulting in the cessation of the cleaning service of school buildings and with the simultaneous dismissal of thousands of workers. The Ministry of Education, University and Research, in fact, for the cleaning of Italian schools, needs more than 11,000 school workers every year, who, instead of being hired, are taken by the cleaning companies through tenders. Until a few years ago the amount paid by the MIUR was never less than 600 million euros, then reduced to 390 million euros. Few checks and rain money for a service that still today, in 75 percent of cases, is carried out by staff dependent on schools (the janitors), often, even in this case, with serious deficiencies. Unsustainable figures that in 2012 made a decision to the Ministry: to launch a Consip contest, divided into 13 lots throughout the national territory, in the hope of reducing costs: a contract of four years that only for school cleaning would amount to 1.2 billion euros. The Ministry, in fact, has budgeted about 300 million a year. However, the actual saving is all to be demonstrated: in fact, when you contract a service to a company, which in turn can entrust it to another, in every subsequent step someone must be able to profit from it. So, in order to keep the costs lower, in order to realize more advantageous offers, obtaining such contracts, the cleaning companies try to save by reducing the working hours and, consequently, the wages of the workers and the quality of the service offered to the users, that is to our children. One year after the start of the Consip race, 10 lots (and 6 lots of Central and Northern Italy) were awarded and they went to the companies that belong to the league of cooperatives: Manutencoop and CNS (National Consortium of Services). Beyond who will take the Consip contract in these last Regions of the South (we can also imagine it), if there will be no continuity with the work carried out previously, the successful tenderer could escape the obligation to hire the same workers who up to that time have provided their service. At that point, the risk of charging additional costs to the State for the demands of social shock absorbers is real. And you think this would be a productive system? For the reasons set out above, the Northern League, although strongly critical of the measure under consideration, will abstain, only because the continuity of the school leadership and therefore the certainty of the rights and expectations of the pupils cannot be affected in the imminence of the end of the school year. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u74	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we do not like this decree, it has not convinced us from the beginning and it does not convince us, although we have appreciated the commitment of the rapporteur and the Government to find a solution, despite our further concerns that have been expressed in recent hours. Indeed, it is really incomprehensible how the two main amendments of this decree then have all these difficulties of report and above all have problems of coverage and how these problems have not been dealt with before. They are perplexities that remain and that generate a lot of reflections, to the point of having to reopen the debate that we have had in the Commission these days. It is regrettable to note that for this Government the school is a slogan to be sold in the appropriate public meetings and then, when it comes to action and action, these are always the same, in full continuity with previous policies. This decree - it has been said - arises from the need to resolve the many disputes opened on the Italian territory, arose because the Council of State cancelled the various competitions; among them, the emblematic experience is represented by the competition of Tuscany, where 112 school leaders in office for two years have to repeat the competition, and thus those who had been eligible. Luckily, the applicants are the only ones who see their rights recognized. We are all convinced that it is necessary to respect the judgments of the judiciary, but in this case the policy should have identified the most painless solution. We are faced with a paradox, because all the subjects involved (the applicants, the suitable ones, the managers) feel victims of a great injustice on the part of the State. In times of distrust of the citizens towards the institutions, the state and politics, this solution will certainly not help to resettle that thread of common sense and belonging to the State, to instill confidence in the State precisely in those who in this case should represent it on the territory. The Tuscan competition, like the others, was cancelled due to a formal defect; therefore, by mistake of the public administration. Then some questions arise: how is it possible for public competitions to take place so often with form irregularities? Have responsibilities been identified? What are the consequences? The damage caused, in fact, is different. In the meantime, there is the erarial one because repeating a contest is not really an irrelevant cost and in times of austerity and cuts such a waste of resources is not acceptable. The second damage concerns those involved, who are the only ones who pay the consequences. In this case the subjects involved are many: it is the whole school community because this story involves the whole world of the school (teachers, executives, ATA staff, pupils and families). After years of chaos, regency, and different managers each year, we began to give a signal of stability by trying to really experience the effects of school autonomy. New appointments have been speeded up to give a signal of stability, not to weaken the main functions and activities of the school. The work began right in the horrible years of the school, those in which the ax of the cuts of Tremonti, Gelmini and Monti fell showing all the violence of spending reviews. In short, we have tried to build a balance, and now we find a solution that could throw the school into a situation of absolute management precariousness, with the risk that some of the current school leaders, already winners of a competition made illegitimate for the unequivocal responsibility of the public administration, will find themselves after three years to start making supernumerary teachers, in schools definitely different from those they have left. Today the theme is how to ensure public service and how to ensure efficiency in schools. It would have been useful for us to find a suitable solution to ensure the continuity of school services and the safeguarding of their rights. It would not have been a sanatoria, a term and, in particular, apparently invisible to the Quirinale according to the dicitus of the Senate, despite the previous years of sanatoria have been made different, in the form of competitions reserved and signed even by the current President of the Republic. It would have been to find a solution that could hold together respect for the sentence and respect for the dignity of people, without any mortification. There are many people who are mortified in this affair: the managers who are the recipients of the cancellations, the eligible and the applicants, who are in an unpleasant condition for the mere fact that they have demanded the regularity of a competition. And we do not understand the hostility to want to introduce, even on the agenda, punctual indications to avoid adding to the damage also the mockery of a total repetition of a contest while for two years the managers are already exercising the functions. There are many commitments made, but they had to be confirmed in writing, because governments and ministers pass but the acts adopted remain. And once again the majority, or rather the relative majority party, has chosen a rigid path without listening to the concerns, perplexities and other solutions proposed. Always a no in the name of the famous take or leave, except then take the opportunity to insert - in our way of rightly seeing - also the other pending situations of the previous years. In short, we are faced with a sanatoria without being called it, and we could have done it better, because the strong feeling, very strong, is that from this solution, designed to resolve different disputes, only other disputes can arise. And we come to Article 2, which should have proposed a solution to solve a matter that we have been dragging from decree to decree for months. Resources should have been found to ensure the maintenance and cleaning services of schools, to save so many jobs, starting with those of socially useful workers, a debate that we have had so many times in this House over the last year. And here, too, a messy solution has been found, as we saw this morning. But perhaps we must start to be honest and make a serious reflection: the externalizations do not work. One cannot think of making cuts, reducing resources and making them pay to the workers of the contractors, whose salaries are half as high as those of the civil servants who carry out the same tasks. But the schools, as is evident to all of us, continue to be dirty and with little maintenance. In many regions we have witnessed in recent months the self-organization of parents, who on weekends organized themselves to clean up their children's schools; not to mention the fact that they were even forced to buy cleaning materials. And the schools are dirty not because of the lack of will of the workers but because the hours scheduled in the contracts for the cleaning are very few; not to mention the lack of resources to buy the basic materials for the cleaning themselves. Are we going to open a serious reflection on these externalizations or are we going to postpone it once again? Studies and analyses show today that hiring ATA staff and managing the service directly would guarantee an improvement in the quality of the service itself and a real savings. But in this case too, the time has come to change direction. For these reasons the Mixed-Left Group Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed-Group Action Popular Participation will abstain. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u76	You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I'd beg colleagues to keep quiet on the benches on my right. Senator Bruno and Senator Bernini, could you keep your voice down? Thank you. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was not the only one who spoke, and you did not make a general point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked you if you could keep your voice down because it's a little noisy that way to exchange words.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u77	Madam President, for school workers, therefore for all the school staff, from the management staff to the teachers, to the auxiliary staff, and for the users of the school service, students and their families, the regular conclusion of the school year is a fundamental objective, as a guarantee of quality. In many Italian schools the situations that have occurred due to causes outside the school world and that have affected the school leaders and the cleaning service of the buildings have seriously put in crisis the achievement of this objective. The two articles of the decree-law before the House are concerned: the first of the anomalous situation resulting from several judgments annulling the results of the competition to places of school manager held on a regional basis; the second of the equally precarious situation in which schools are located in the regions where the Council procedure for entrusting the cleaning services of buildings has not been completed. This being so, in both cases, serious prejudice would have arisen for the regular continuation and completion of the current school year. With regard to the question referred to in Article 1 concerning the school managers to whom the seats have been assigned following the results of the competition, findings made in the judgments of several regional TARs due to defects not attributable to the managers concerned but to the public administration, it could have been verified that the situation of having to return to the school office or other seat without the ownership of a chair, assigned in the meantime to other teachers. After years of teaching and after being awarded prizes to school executives, these subjects would have found themselves carrying out subsidiary activities, such as support or temporary supplement, to the detriment of their professionalism. The effect of the judgment would then have put these managers, who were brought back to teaching, in the condition of having to support a future competition under the same conditions as any other teacher who was aspiring to the role of school manager. The amendment proposed by the rapporteur absorbs and summarises the main issues addressed during the Commission's examination, thereby improving the basic text of the starting text and providing the managers already winning the competition with appropriate safeguards and ensuring that they can participate in a forthcoming competition by at least recognizing additional titles resulting from the passing of the previous competition. The prejudice to the regular continuation of the teaching activity is overcome by providing that the same continue to play the role of manager in the school of assignment until the completion of the new competition procedure, while safeguarding the legitimacy of the adopted acts. The question, already addressed also with the school decree, but in that place not definitively resolved, comes to an acceptable solution, even if a wider problem remains open relative to the recruitment of all the school staff, therefore also of the teachers, for which it seems necessary to prepare a revision of the parameters and the modalities, in order to allow the access to the roles of staff that actually have the managerial, professional and human aptitudes that is found to be necessary for the staff both teaching and managerial of the school. We therefore expect this issue to be dealt with by a future measure to reorder the general arrangements for recruitment of school staff. The problem of cleaning school buildings, which is dealt with in Article 2, must be dealt with in two respects, namely the maintenance of the quality of the service itself and the employment service. The question originates far away, having arisen again in the year 2000 with the passage in the state staff of the cleaning staff, the so-called janitors, first employees, for the primary school, of the municipalities. Since then there has been a diversified solution, with the fact that the service has been guaranteed with employees and others where the service has been outsourced. In the case of outsourcing, the dual objective of improving the quality of the service and reducing costs was not achieved. Disfunctions of various kinds have instead been created, accentuating the phenomenon of the precariousness of the workers ex LSU. At the general level, however, since that date there has been a significant decrease in the total number of school workers employed in cleaning the premises, estimated at about 30,000. Even the entry into force of the Consip Conventions has been in a different way in the individual realities, so much so that to date in some regions the conventions have not yet been implemented. On this issue this Assembly has already expressed itself with an appropriate amendment to the law of stability, which has allowed to give continuity to the service with the extension of the contracts in existence until 28 February, subsequently extended by decree save Rome to 31 March. Fragmented measures, therefore, for the need to ensure financial coverage. However, I would like to highlight one aspect: ATA cleaning staff often carry out tasks that go beyond the normal routine, also devoting themselves to small-scale maintenance work and often becoming a reference point for pupils and teachers. Sometimes the ATA staff also becomes a collaborator of the in-signs in the laboratory activities. This role becomes particularly important in the smaller levels of compulsory education, where there are normally no professional figures for these functions. The mere pursuit of the objective of economics therefore risks generating a qualitative decline in the service, which goes hand in hand with the limitation of employment levels. It is therefore legitimate to ask the question whether outsourcing, while allowing lower costs, is the optimal solution in order to guarantee the quality of the service. Again, the rapporteur's amendment introduces a satisfactory solution to the problem, ensuring the service until 31 December 2014 and identifying a mechanism for the allocation in regions where the Council Framework Convention has not yet been implemented. While some questions remain open, which will have to be addressed with subsequent measures, the decree at our examination as a whole achieves the objective of giving temporary, but not short-term, solution to both issues: to allow the managers to continue to operate at the institute at which they were appointed until the completion of the new competitive procedures and to give continuity to the cleaning service of the premises. With these reasons, I am voting in favour of the New Right Centre. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u79	He has the right, Senator Bocchino, to represent a new member of the Mixed Group whose constitution is announced today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u80	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to speak in the explanation of vote on behalf of the Italian member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. First of all, I would like to denounce the fact that this measure consists of two distinct and separate parts which, although united by the continuity of the school service, represent two profoundly different events and whose solution requires analyses that are completely different. It is therefore wrong conceptually to put together the two events, because it is conceivable that there are solutions acceptable to the case of managers and not acceptable to the case of cleaning services. For example, in the case of school managers, the solution adopted could be a compromise between the requirements of the protection of the winners to whom the competition has been cancelled and the protection of administrative law, which must never be lacking in a rule of law such as our country wants to be. In particular, it must be borne in mind that this does not end here. We must continue to pay attention to it, because much will depend on the size of the reserve that the Government will determine when it will ban the course-competition subject to this amendment and, above all, on the score that the Government will decide to assign to the participants in reserve quota. A just determination in this regard, in fact, will allow the distinctions mentioned by Senator Montevecchi in her speech. Right distinctions, which will have to be made, regarding the categories of executives who will participate in the new course-competition. On the other hand, the situation with regard to Article 2, the situation with regard to cleaning services, is quite different. I concluded my speech in general debate, denouncing the fact that the Government was forced to find as many as 150 million euros to serve as a social shock absorber for these 12,000 employees who have serious employment problems in the face of an increasingly poor and expensive service. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that was already the wrong solution, and we have now approved a new wording of amendment 2.4, where even these 150 million, which were to be burdened on the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund, are not there; there is no money, so much so that in the reformulation it is said that the funds will have to be defined according to an analysis to be carried out. So, basically, there's no money either. Then, on behalf of my member of the Mixed Group, I too declare the abstention vote, and once again I urge this Parliament to tackle the problem of the social state in a structural way, in order to resolve it not only for these 12,000 workers, but for all those workers who are in great difficulty at this time of crisis. To do this, we need financial resources to be put on the table specifically for this problem. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u83	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in declaring the abstention vote on this measure, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I would like to thank all the members of the 7th Permanent Commission for the fruitful work carried out and the tenacity shown in wanting to find at all costs a solution shared by all political forces, to which, of course, Forza Italia has also made a substantial contribution. But there is no escape from the consideration that the State needs, today more than yesterday, to regain authority in the field of education. In my general speech, Madam President, I emphasized the issue of form and substance concerning principals, otherwise called school leaders: they return to represent the State in its essential ethical, historical and cultural values. The Government is working to promote more professional training itineraries, able to give back to managers and teachers dignity, public decorum, ancient authority. So far, at the general level, the steps taken by the Government in public education have been shy and stunted. There are elections to the European Parliament and it therefore seems that there is no time to tackle the revitalization of education, training and national education with robust measures. The unsatisfactory experience of recent years must teach something: no surrender to demagogy, a firm pulse in restoring roles and competences. The irreplaceable role of the trade unions is reflected by all the social partners: the members of parents, operators, employers' names, businesses, in particular. It is necessary to drive out about the school and open to efficiency. Young people, who are the real target of school functioning laws, are placed in a position to study and train culturally, in order to face the difficult challenges of the economy, the new economy strongly marked by the use of new information technologies and foreign languages. If Italy has the opportunity to draw a vision of the future for Italians and Europeans, it will need to create conditions of permeability between sectors, sectors and humanities, technological, scientific and linguistic skills. Finally, the advocates of hyperspecializations should go away: the approach must be holistic, osmotic knowledge. The roles, however, must be respected. Will the government want to approach this? There's still no sign of it. On these positions, our opinion, that of Forza Italia, will not change over time: always alongside the merit, always willing to give priority to those who commit themselves. On this general, precarious and uncertain framework and the postponement of strategic decisions for the Italian school, we base our decision to abstain. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Santini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u86	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, which we are voting on today, seeks to solve a problem which has arisen on the basis of a series of disputes which have been initiated in recent years in our country and which have led to a rather singular condition for which school leaders, even though they have entered the service, have been cancelled for reasons which had nothing to do with themselves. Therefore, the procedures have been cancelled by the administrative judiciary, which has imposed its renewal. It was therefore at this stage to find a solution to this problem and, above all, to ensure that the service of these managers was not interrupted, with the consequences that would result. Without prejudice then to the judgments adopted by the administrative judge, the rule aims to ensure that it is in Tuscany, where, as many colleagues have pointed out, there is an important number of school leaders involved, but also in the other regions affected by similar disputes, the school leaders already appointed can remain medium-time exercising the functions to which they have been appointed. The rule aims to ensure one very important thing: the preservation of the effects produced by the acts carried out by the directors themselves, in the light of the principle of administrative continuity. It is clear, in fact, that, if this were not guaranteed, we would have been in a situation of absolute difficulty. It is also added that at this stage the Ministry is proceeding on the basis of a precise schedule. Addressing the representative of the present government, I say that we would like very quickly to complete the new competition procedures in accordance with the procedures indicated by the administrative judges, in such a way that at the beginning of the school year it is ensured to schools the allocation of the school leaders who will be winners, without increasing for the continuity of teaching and administrative. We found a solution. It is clear that we would not have wanted to deal with a situation of this kind, but since we had come to terms with it, a solution had to be found. We think that, as things stand, the solution that has been proposed is the best. It was a very delicate task: I thank the rapporteur, Mr Marcucci, the 7th standing Commission and Mr Azzollini, who, as usual, followed the whole procedure and helped us find solutions. The Ministry that worked with us took charge of the errors that were made within that administration in all the completion of the acts. It is clear that we hope that such events will not and will not happen again. With regard to Article 2, concerning the completion of cleaning services in schools, we have also ensured, with the amendment on which we have also worked in the Chamber this morning, that the deadline within which in the schools of the Regions in which the competitions have unfortunately not yet been awarded (Sicilia and Campania) can continue to avail itself of the current suppliers, so as not to have to return shortly with a new law provision. These are questions of an emerging nature, and in this country the last thing you need is to continue working in emerging situations. We hope, with the next measures and with the next political action, by implementing different strategies, that we will no longer be in a position to find solutions to problems that, in fact, sometimes arise from errors of the administrations themselves. With these reasons and thanking all those who have worked on this measure, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u89	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 58 of 7 April 2014 introducing urgent measures to ensure the smooth running of the school service" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be entitled to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u91	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00609 on the activation of the single emergency number (112). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with Question No 300609, the Government is asked to speed up the process of implementing the European directive on the single number of emergencies, 112. I would like to point out that the introduction in all the Member States of the Union of 112 as a single European emergency number had been foreseen since 1991 by a decision of the Council of the European Communities. The entire legislative package had been transposed by our country in August 2003, through the publication of Legislative Decree No 259 of the same year with the electronic communications code. The technical and organisational call response model, recently referred to by the European Commission as the most adherent to specifications emerging from Community technical and regulatory documentation, is that of the public service of first level assistance. This model, which provides for the collection of all emergency calls at a single point of contact, was started in experimental form in Varese in 2010 on a decision shared between the Ministry of the Interior and the Lombardy Region. It is easy to understand the involvement of the Region in the experimentation, since the Regions are the owners of the organization of the Regional Health Service; therefore, being a single point of emergency, it is easy to understand how all emergency calls should be collected, whatever the nature of the same (health emergency, public order emergency, personal security emergency, environmental emergency). For this reason an operational protocol, a project, was shared, which had an experimental nature to verify the practicability of that model and identify any criticalities arising from the concrete application. Following the protocol signed, precisely, between the Ministry and the Lombardy Region in 2011, it was decided to extend the Varese model to the whole regional territory. This agreement was reaffirmed by the signing, on 28 December 2013, of a specific convention. On 3 December, therefore, 112 was activated, the single European Number (NUE), in the territory of Milan and Province. Joint emergency management has been introduced with this institution at territorial level. In fact, by calling a single number, which can be reached free of charge from any device, you get the necessary help for any emergency. In the definition of the program to be experimented we were faced with a double option. On the one hand, there is a model of a secular operational centre capable, that is, of accepting and discriminating the aid application made through the single number 112 and of immediately activating the operational structures most able to respond to the emergency situation reported: a health intervention, if the emergency concerns a topic of health protection or life-threatening for citizens; an emergency police intervention, in case the reported issue concerns a problem of personal security or public order; an intervention by firefighters, in case a problem is reported related to natural emergencies or the occurrence of phenomena and problems of various kinds related to the anthropic activities or industrial activities; an environmental intervention, in case the call has that meaning. This model is opposed to another method, another hypothesis, which gives the single number the simple function of sorting the call, i.e. the assessment of the area of belonging (sanitary, public policy, emergency, environmental) and the specific treatment of the case by the second level operating plants. The experimentation carried out highlights the best effectiveness of the first model, that is the ability of the operating center to understand directly and immediately the nature of the emergency signaled and to immediately activate the operational structures more ready to cope with it: therefore, a mobile unit of resuscitation, an intervention of Elisocrso, an intervention of the Police Forces, an intervention of the fire department, an intervention of the Forest Corps of the State. This hypothesis, however, requires a sharing in the management of the operating centers "laiche" as it manages tasks and functions of direct and exclusive competence of the State (public order, environmental emergencies) and exclusive competence of the Regions (regional health services). For the management of such an operational centre, a specific training activity is needed to enable operators to manage, direct and discriminate against the various emergencies reported. It is therefore the intention of the Government and, for the part of specific competence, of the Ministry of the Interior, to proceed in the implementation of the system at the national level through the sharing of this model with the Regions, which constitute the most direct and most immediate reference - I repeat - for the competences in the field of health, also in order to share the managerial models about the responsibility and the ownership in the management of the human and instrumental resources, as well as about the necessity to share the costs necessary to manage an operating structure of emergency that has these characteristics. Therefore, I feel I can confirm the commitment of the Government and the impulse that the Ministry of the Interior will guarantee through the development of the evaluation of these experiments, so much so that it can arrive, in the possible times, to the definition of a new organizational model able to make operational a service of prompt and immediate intervention that can manage all the emergencies reported by the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Zavoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u95	Mr Valentini (PD). Madam President, I note that Mr Vice-Minister has responded with a rather thorough report, and above all with the Government's will to move forward on the single-number system. Although this Government has nothing to do with it, I would like to stress, however, that it has been twelve years since Europe gave an indication of the single number 112 system. More than 17 European countries have already implemented the legislation; even in Switzerland and South Africa the single number is already in use. In Italy, however, there is a great confusion, given the fact that 112 answer the Carabinieri who then turn the calls to the other numbers. Such system confusion does not help the process and path to move forward. I would like to point out that I tabled the question, together with Senator Amati, before the broadcast was aired, which is why we did not follow what was highlighted. Of course, 112, as organized, is not the product of the single reporting system, it does not help and, indeed, seems like a trick in order to avoid the sanctions of Europe. I can say that I am satisfied with the commitment that has been made to this, but perhaps we need to speed up the procedure. We have three numbers, which are 112, 113 and 115, within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, beyond the Regions and the Health Service, to which are added those of the Forest Guard and the Corps of Harbour offices. So we get to have seven numbers that work individually, while we have seen that in Madrid there is only one structure that faces about 15,000 calls a day, equivalent to those that grab more than four of our operating rooms put together. It is clear that we must move forward, but by speeding up, because we are really late. It has been pointed out to me from many quarters that in Rome, many tourists call 112 thinking of calling the single number, and this involves a delay in helping them. So, we have to speed them up, we have to hurry them, because we are - I repeat - very late. What has been done in Lombardy can certainly serve as a model to understand where the mistakes are and what the changes to make, but we need to get to apply the European provisions as soon as possible, because they help to be more efficient in the rescue, to avoid waste and to save resources, and allow to finally create, even through the single number, that system that helps prevention. In other words, we need to organize the Italian system in the field of prevention, with the Civil Protection, the Fire Department, the Carabinieri and the Police, especially in the presence of the states of calamity. We need to build a system, and the unique number certainly helps us to do it. Therefore, I am satisfied with the commitment, but unsatisfied - not with the responsibilities of the Government - for the frightening delay that we must overcome in a short time. At least as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, a system must be set up with the three numbers 112, 113 and 115. I would not like to see strong internal resistance to rescue systems hiding behind the delay of all these years, and not just helping them: it is clear that no one wants to give up their number. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Valentini, please conclude. Mr Valentini (PD). I will conclude, Mr President, by saying once again that we need to speed up, because the delay is so great that it does not help at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u96	Following is the question 3-00895 on the legitimacy of the indication of public competitions in place of the sliding of the rankings of previous competitions. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u97	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank, not formally, the subscribers of this urgent question, because it concerns an issue on which every Member of Parliament is constantly urged, an issue which is of course at the heart of those directly concerned, but also of the administrations themselves who have activated the relevant procedures. We refer, in fact, to the correct application of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, regarding the placing in service of suitable and winners of competitions and, in particular, the possibility to launch new competitions in the presence of valid rankings. In the question are reported, in particular, some concrete cases that concern the Regional Council of Sardinia, the Municipality of L'Aquila and other municipalities belonging to the seismic crater, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Region Puglia. These are cases in which the administrations, according to the subscribers, would have made harmful organizational and managerial choices of the interests of the eligible contest pending recruitment. In the meantime, I would like to give an immediate answer to this question because, as soon as we received the question, we reported this situation to the Public Service Department inspectorate, and inspections have already been carried out in the administrations mentioned in the question. It will be the responsibility of the Department to inform the subscribers of the results of these inspections, so that you can know in concrete terms whether there have been these irregularities and have the reasons that have eventually prompted the administrations to adopt these acts. With regard to the more general part of the question, however, the Government would like to point out that, with the draft reform of the public administration (on which it is underway from April 30, and until May 30, a popular consultation to which, until now, answers have already arrived from civil servants and citizens in a very large number, that it is around 13,000 and that shortly will be made known also in systematic form, therefore, making a sort of "open response" to allow everyone to have also a facilitated reading of these answers) intends to increase the number of recruitments through the introduction of a series of measures that facilitate the exit, without charges for public finance, neither for public administration, nor for pension institutions, as, for example, the repeal of the institution of detention in service and the facilitation of part time. From our calculations, only with the introduction of this rule, limited to the public administration and ministries, could we talk about a figure around the 10,000 places that would be available for young people. If we could extend this measure also to the area of local authorities and regions, the numbers could also increase. This will of course allow to free up a number of positions within the organic equipment and will allow - therefore - to accelerate the placing in service also for the subjects to which the interrogators refer. With regard to the request for the census of the winners and the eligible ones present in the rankings in force since 1 January 2007, unfortunately there is no data to date, so much is true that on 5 May last the Department of the public function has issued, in implementation of article 4, paragraph 5, of decree-law n. 101 of 2013, a circular to activate the monitoring for all public administrations in order to detect the number of winners and suitable placed in competitive rankings in force for permanent recruitments, as well as the professional profiles of reference. Administrations can access the on-line detection system to provide the required information by 23 May 2014. The data collected will then be published in a specific section of the website of the Department of Civil Service. Finally, with regard to a more effective promotion of the agreements for the use of rankings approved by different administrations, as provided for in Article 3 of Law No 350 of 24 December 2003, the Government has already intervened with Article 4 of Decree-Law No 101, favouring, through the use of existing rankings, a faster placing in service of the winners. In any case, at the outcome of the monitoring, which, precisely, will end by 23 May, further initiatives will be evaluated, also administratively, for a more effective implementation of the principles contained in the decree-law in the matter of sliding the rankings. It is clear, however, that the real leap in quality can only be made if we consider all the bodies of the public administration, making available all the positions that will be freed within the public administration, or that have already been liberated, and we use the rankings not only limited to the individual administrations, but trying to have an overall view of the whole public administration. In this way we think it will be easier also to scroll the rankings and meet the subjects who are directly interested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u100	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his prompt response and also for his commitment with regard to the inspectorate which will monitor its competitors. The rather painful point is the following: compared to the people who supported the contest and were considered suitable, therefore they won the contest and were placed in a ranking, from the assumption of the winners to the present, they are still missing, to the current organic plant, 30 places, of different positions of role, especially as regards the competition called by the Regional Council of Sardinia. (at 13 o'clock) (Serra followed). But what has the administration done? He arranged for these people to be included and for about three years they would also be used for the tasks for which they won the competition, but this resulted in additional expenses. In any case we would like - as you also explained, Undersecretary - that the functionality of assumption and the facilitation for obtaining a classification and a real and functional regularization be effectively evaluated, so that there are not and do not continue to determine such serious failures. As far as your answer is concerned, therefore, I am not completely satisfied, waiting for prompt and effective action by the Government, and therefore by the whole public administration, so that these events do not continue to create problems and injustices among workers who have nevertheless started a competition procedure and find themselves having started a job, which at the same time, however, did not achieve them an effective and effective position. I am therefore not fully satisfied with the Government's response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u101	Following is the question 3-00899 on the renewal of state-controlled public limited liability companies. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u102	Madam President, with question 3-00899, Senator Lanzillotta asks questions about the contractual terms laid down for the directors of public limited liability companies controlled by the State, with particular regard to ENI Spa, ENEL Spa and Terna Spa. It should be noted that as far as the Terna Company is concerned, the current structure, in terms of corporate structure, is the result of the unification between ownership and management of the national transmission electricity network, which took place in November 2005, on the basis of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 May 2004 which, in transposing the European guidelines, provided that the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as shareholder, did not express any address both on the management of the same company and on the actions of the directors. As the legislator is known over the years has regulated with several provisions, last with decree-law n. 201 of 2011, the emoluments and the policy of remuneration of directors of unlisted public companies, in this recognizing that the listed companies and, therefore, that they issue financial instruments on the stock exchange, meet market criteria for the determination of the compensations, also in the light of the important presence of private investor members (equal to approximately 70 percent). By Decree-Law No 69 of 2013 it was intended to put to the vote of shareholders of companies with shares in public control the adoption of remuneration policies aimed at limiting the remuneration recognized at the corporate leadership of the same companies. In particular, Article 23- bis of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 - as amended by Decree-Law No 69 of 2013 - provides that for listed companies controlled by public administrations, when renewing the administrative bodies, the shareholders' meeting shall decide on a proposal to reduce the remuneration of directors with delegations, in order to pay a remuneration for management delegations not exceeding 75 per cent of the total economic treatment in any given way, including that for any employment relationship with the same company, during the mandate prior to renewal. The Ministry of Economics and Finance, on the basis of the above-mentioned regulatory provisions, proposed to the ENI assembly - held on 8 May - the adoption of these aforementioned containment criteria that were approved by a large majority by the assembly, with significant membership also by private shareholders. In the next few days such proposal will be formulated by the controlling shareholder also in the upcoming assemblies of the companies concerned (for ENEL next May 22). The shareholders' meeting, as provided for in the single finance text, shall decide on the remuneration report with reference to at least the following year as well as the procedures used for its implementation. The analysis of the documents on the remuneration policy of ENEL and ENI shows that in the definition of remuneration the companies follow a structured procedure that provides for the proposal by the remuneration committee (specially constituted and with the majority presence of independent directors), the use of comparable companies as market benchmark, the verification - during the mandate - of the consistency of the remuneration actually paid with the policy determined at the beginning of the mandate. In compliance with the code of self-discipline, the remuneration of the ENEL and ENI summits includes a fixed component and a variable linked to the company results, with indicators mainly accounting matrix, even of medium to long period. The provision of end-of-term allowances - adopted by the companies concerned in the past years - is in line with market practice in the majority of the high-capitalised companies of the FTSE MIB stock exchange index. The directors of ENEL and ENI - as more generally for all public limited companies - must act according to parameters of professionalism, competence and diligence appropriate to the task according to the rule of business judgement rule with full and personal responsibility for their work, having no obligation of mandate and direction by the shareholder who has designated them, also in order to preserve possible disclosures of price sensitive information. In exercising the prerogatives of a board of directors, the individual members of the board of directors act for the good performance of the company in order to create value for the benefit of the same company and, consequently, of the members. In the light of the above, any decision on the contractual clauses on the remuneration of directors refers exclusively to the negotiating relationship between the company and the manager on the basis of independent evaluations and deliberations adopted by the board of directors of the company, on a proposal from the remuneration committee, after a favourable opinion of the board of trade unions. In accordance with the practices in use, the Management Board shall take decisions on the basis of the reference documentation on the identification of quantitative and qualitative indicators, the extent of delegations and on the objectives related to the assignment. Finally, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors has not so far made any comments on the remuneration policies of the top managements adopted by ENI and ENEL in the past years. Senator Lanzillotta, this is the answer from the MEF.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u105	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Undersecretary, I would like to thank you for the history of the various regulatory interventions that have taken place in the field of emoluments. I believe that the fact that, as you mentioned, Decree-Law No. 69 of 2013 gives, in article 23- bis, indications on the emoluments of directors with delegations of listed companies contradicts your final statement that the emoluments are decided in a completely autonomous way between management and boards of directors. If that were the case, the rule contained in that decree-law could not even have been introduced. Therefore, I think the answer is largely elusive with regard to the past and, above all, I would also have liked a direction regarding the future. In fact, I cannot believe that, given the response prepared by the offices of the MEF, the Government, in its political direction and therefore in preparing an address for the representatives of the MEF in the shareholders' meetings, does not give a legitimate orientation also in the interest of society. I am not aware that this has happened, as we have seen over the last few weeks, because the President of the Council has made an appropriate statement on this matter, stressing that there is an opportunity to exercise a role of direction with regard to the behaviour of the representatives at the MEF assembly. I therefore hope that this will happen for the future at least. I must also disagree with the fact that end-of-term allowances are a market practice, because this is an end-of-office job because of the extinction of the natural term and not because of the traumatic termination of the relationship, including as regards administrators and not only when the latter have a working relationship as Directors-General; practices, in my opinion, really inappropriate and which should be blocked. I would therefore like to see at least one commitment for the future that these clauses should no longer be included and that the role played by the Court of Auditors on the boards of directors of these companies should at least be assessed with some concern. I believe that the procedure for carrying out the Court's audit provided for in Law No 259 of 21 March 1958 should also be considered. In fact, all too often we have seen behaviors that are not reported in the reports to Parliament drawn up by the Court of Auditors even when, for example, it is a question of liquidating the variable part of the salary that you rightly recalled was linked to the results. With regard to ENI, the Commission's survey of the production activities of this branch of Parliament showed that a significant share of that remuneration could be spared. I can therefore only say that I am very partially satisfied, as this answer concerns the past. I therefore reserve the right to ask another question about the future, and I hope that appropriate guidance will also be given to the MEF offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u106	Colleagues, I would like to say that the answer to Question 300528 is postponed to another date. Therefore, the questioning on the agenda is so exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u109	PADUA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to share a quick reflection on two issues that are very dear to me and, at least the first, dear to the whole of this House. Once again, this morning, we have commemorated, with one minute of silence, yet another tragedy experienced these days: the tragedy of the landings, the pain of this infinite massacre that leaves at least 20,000 dead at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea; 20,000 people who are men, women and children. Maybe the figure 20,000 may seem like an elusive concept, but they are people on the run, looking for a better future and fleeing from war. By now the issue of immigration has exceeded insurmountable limits and Italy is facing a phenomenon that grows exponentially with the passage of time. There is no doubt that migrants will increase and that they will be willing to put their lives at risk in order to escape from the inauspicious destiny that awaits them in many of their countries. That is why it is essential, now more than ever, for Europe to react unitedly and not to leave the issue to the sole burden of Italy. As our Premier said the day before yesterday, Europe cannot save states and banks and then let mothers die with children. Our Europe, the one dreamed of by the founding Fathers and that we still want to continue to build together, is deaf, far away, I dare say fugitive. It is time, no longer procrastinable, that all Heads of State and Government commit themselves to the problem of landings in the South of Europe. 13.14 (Follow Padua). We have the strong impression that the management of the great humanitarian emergency of human trafficking through the Mare nostrum is considered our problem, as if it were exclusively of our country; but it is not so. Cooperation between European countries is absolutely necessary; it is a key factor in changing an approach that will have to be shared with all EU countries. If we do not cooperate on a priority issue like this, the fear of the other, the fear of the different will take over from us and will become even more acute than it already is. On the other hand, it is by setting up humanitarian corridors in Africa that we can respond more effectively to an increasingly dramatic phenomenon, hoping that soon the sad and petty practice of the recovery of the dead at sea will end. Italy does what it can... president. You have to finish. PADUA (PD). I wanted to leave two pressing calls for our President-in-Office to address, from 1 July, the beginning of the European Semester, the amendment of the Dublin Regulation and cooperation between European countries. Allow me, Mr President, to finish very quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, because there are many surgeries, Senator Padua. PADUA (PD). Yesterday we converted Decree-Law No. 36 of 2014, which provides, among other things, rehabilitation for drug addiction. We also approved in this measure the conversion of the Modica prison for the rehabilitation of drug addicts. The strange thing is that yesterday the invitation arrived to close the prison. I ask your lordship - right now you are our President - to say that it is not possible for us in this House to vote on a measure and then in practice to do something else. I hope this can be reviewed as soon as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Fair enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u112	BENCINI (Mixed). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the arrest of Riccardo Viti, the man accused and guilty confession of the murder of a woman in Ugnano, near Florence, was greeted with just satisfaction for the action of the police forces that succeeded in a few hours - about 90 hours - to capture this killer. It is the second in Florence: it was not enough the monster of Florence who made victims by hitting the couples, now we have another monster that has done various damage to women, until killing one, a victim. However, one cannot fail to observe that a person's death was necessary to make things move with a certain diligence. The previous reports of the other prostitutes were of no use to anyone. Perhaps it is considered normal that some misadventure may happen to women who choose or are forced to practice this profession. It is an unacceptable attitude, the result of moral prejudice and for which the legislator is primarily responsible - and so we, Parliament, too - which hypocritically continues not to want to regulate an economically and socially as important activity as that of prostitution. It is no longer tolerable to close your eyes to the health risks arising from the non-regulation of the oldest profession in the world and which, strangely, is perhaps the only trade that has not met deficit over the years. Compared to many other trades that, also because of the new technologies, have seen the contraction of jobs, this craft, being the oldest in the world, has however continued to remain active over time and has created also with the new technologies jobs. There are many women forced into slavery by criminal organizations who benefit from this sector. In a free and democratic society, prostitution, when it represents a freely undertaken activity, must be allowed and regulated, subjecting it to tax and health rules as well, being an activity which also has an important social aspect and whose recognition represents a cultural step forward towards a less morbid relationship with sex. On the other hand, it is necessary to counter all forms of exploitation and coercion, strengthening sanctions and penalties for exploiters and torturers; this is in order to prevent the activity from being carried out in the street or in other places that do not protect the safety and health of workers and users-customers and, indirectly, also of citizenship. That is why I think it is urgent for policy to put this issue on the agenda, which can no longer be avoided by Parliament. Some draft laws have been presented, in particular the Senate Act No. 1201 of initiative of Senator Spilabotte and other senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Bencini. BENCINI (Mixed). I would therefore like the Presidents of the Constitutional Affairs and Justice Commissions, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Palma, to make an endorsing in order to have this bill discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u113	Members of your Group will be able to ask the Commissions to include the measures you referred to on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u116	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, the failure of the company Deiulemar shipping company S.p.A. has dramatically involved many families. It is a company that was listed on the stock exchange. The event has brought to the fore the inadequacy of the prevention and control systems in force today in our system. We believe that Parliament must take concrete steps to make clear the failure of the things that have not worked, and must assess what has not worked, trying to understand the possible responsibilities of the bodies of the State, especially the guarantee and supervisory bodies, which seem not to have been able to avoid very serious economic and social repercussions on tens of thousands of families. The judiciary is moving on. We have promoted a popular petition, which is loudly demanded by the people who have been defrauded, and we have tabled a request for parliamentary inquiry into this matter, which - as I said - is, to say the least, grotesque. We, Madam President, believe that the state must give concrete effect to the scream of the pain of many families. Well, this scream of pain we believe to be concrete in the very establishment of this Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u119	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I am a spokesperson for many activists from all over Italy of the 5 Star Movement. The ability to imagine and design are the basis of the development of society. Citizens must aspire to regulate and regulate in the collective interest. When we talk about the sovereign people, this should be understood: people who dictate the rules in mutual respect of the community and the planet. Rights must be protected, just as the common good must be protected. Common goods circulate outside the market, through the channels of the informal economy: free collection, sharing, the gift economy can be said to be the goods for which it is not fair to impose any price. For example, since yesterday the island of the Venetian lagoon Poveglia no longer belongs to the community: a Venetian entrepreneur has won it for 513,000 euros. But was not man merely the guardian of the environment, with the task of preserving it for future generations? Fruiting clean air, public water, landscape, sea and beaches are all essential human rights and should not have a price. The landscape itself is protected by our Constitution in Article 9. Probably over the years the profit and arrogance have put this simple concept of forgetfulness, because we are, for example, today to travel kilometers and kilometers of coast, in various parts of Italy, without knowing if on the other side of the barriers we have, who knows, a wall, a lawn, other houses or the sea. If it weren't for the air that pulls in favor and that brings us the brackish scent, we wouldn't have the slightest awareness of the landscape beyond the curtain. Structures and obstacles, multi-storey buildings hide the beauty of the coast and horizon. Not to mention kilometers of coastline inaccessible: very high concrete walls and barriers of various industries, ports, yards, which make their exclusive private view of the sea. Sometimes it is difficult to smell even the smell of the sea; you can only hear the smell of chimneys and drains. I wonder: what about the citizen? What about the landscape? And the pleasure of enjoying and enjoying common goods? Who has adapted to this? Who puts us in a position, more or less induced, to have to pay, summer, to go to the beaches and to enjoy a day of sun and sea? Over time, citizens' primary rights have been emptied in the name of profit. I remember that as a child they took me to the free beach, which seemed beautiful and great to me; we know, however, that as a child everything seems bigger. After years I went back and I saw something incredible in front of me. I didn't recognize that beach because it became a handkerchief because two neighboring parts were granted to two neighboring bathrooms. Beach Paradiso today is really demeaning and ridiculous, able to accommodate only brave bathers who stack themselves on each other as if they had to suffer a punishment for not giving up on a bathing fee. However, the people must be sovereign and everything else must serve the community; entrepreneurs, large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises are resources that must provide a service, but they must not impose policies of privileges and restrictions on the common good. To the arrogant and overbearing I would say that the planet has no masters and profit and power do not give the right to dictate the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u122	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, in this speech I would like to point out the situation of difficulties and uneasiness in which our fellow countrymen are living in Morocco, particularly in the province of Marrakech. In particular, while remaining silent about the remaining difficulties, reference is made to the impossibility for our compatriots, at present, to carry out voting tasks, especially in view of the forthcoming European elections. The redistribution of the consular network has in fact created this non-secondary obstacle. The unofficial closure of the Honorary Deputy Consulate of Marrakech de facto deprived the Italian community of every reference point. This institution should in fact deal with the electoral tasks, according to the decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 31 July 2013, to letter g). In this situation, the government wonders what urgent measures are to be taken in order to allow the vote of Italian citizens resident in Morocco. I would therefore ask the Presidency to be the spokesman for this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u125	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I rise briefly to denounce yesterday's absurd violence in the city of Giulianova during an electoral demonstration in this House. Three activists of the 5 Star Movement of Giulianova have exposed two goliardic protest signs. In response, in contempt for the norms of democracy and civil coexistence, the same were verbally attacked with an attitude worthy of the most becero squadrismo. Afterwards, Piergiorgio, one of our activist and candidate of only 22 years, was barbaricly attacked and hit in the face with a fist, by the mayor's brother. The candidate for president of the Democratic Party, Luciano D'Alfonso and the mayor Mastromauro, were present at this ignoble act, who did not immediately take a position of disappointment, in order to stigmatize these violent behaviors, which have nothing to do with the most elementary democratic values hypocritically flaunted every day by the Democratic Party also in this Chamber. The Democratic Party of Giulianova thus became the protagonist of one of the most squalid episodes of the city's political life. The local 5 Star Movement today publicly denounced the climate of intimidation that they have been suffering since the start of the election campaign and that culminated in this gesture. We now expect a distance from such attitudes from the mayor and candidate president of the Democratic Party Region. I also point out that this is not the only episode, but it is added to a list now long, like the shots against the home of the councilman of Lizzano, the car burned to the candidate mayor of Avegno and the aggression suffered yesterday, in Torre del Greco, by an activist as he was preparing to post the electoral posters in the spaces assigned to us. Also in this respect of the spaces by the 5 Star Movement is exemplary. It is clear that the 5 Star Movement is shaking the world of dishonesty, but it will not be these intimidations that stop us. Another world is possible and honesty is back in fashion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u128	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to denounce a fact on which, moreover, I have just tabled an urgent question, signed by myself and other Senators of the Misto-SEL Group, addressed to the President of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A few hours ago, in the morning, in Brussels, during a demonstration against the European business summit, many Italians were arrested by the Belgian police and taken away by the Belgian forces - including Luca Casarini, candidate on the list Other Europe with Tsipras - who were part of a delegation of the largest demonstration that was taking place in Brussels, and which, among other things, is continuing, in order to make known the US-EU Free Trade Agreement, on which the negotiation is taking place, an agreement that is practically secreted, and of which therefore we cannot understand exactly all the contents. This event aims to draw the attention of all European citizens to the risks of the transatlantic agreement, which is selling out environmental rights and European welfare. What has happened is particularly serious: some 250 people have been arrested, including members of other nationalities (such as a Belgian Green Member). I repeat that the number of Italians is very high. We therefore call for immediate intervention by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also to understand whether the detentions are turning into something more and why an official protest is taking place. In fact, it is enough to see the video that was published today on the "Huffington Post" to understand that it was a violent police post in front of peaceful protesters who wanted, on the occasion of the renewal of the European Parliament, to make known to everyone what is happening in relation to the EU-US negotiations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u131	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to what is happening with regard to Italian schools abroad and the promotion of Italian language and culture abroad. This morning we fired a government measure against which, in the general discussion, it was pointed out that on the whole school sector, instead of activating long-term policies with clear planning and criteria, we proceed continuously with a series of emergency measures, in order to heal situations that are less and less easy to heal with sporadic measures. In fact, we must really try to understand whether we want to consider school, culture and language as resources and, even more so, we must try to understand if we want to do so in relation to our presence and representation abroad. In view of the many words spent in this House, which recognize our image abroad as an extremely wide value and radius, especially according to the language, which the Undersecretary Giro declares to be the fourth language taught in the world (Italian courses in the United States to have increased by 15-20 percent per year and the number of Italian students, also in countries like Egypt, which therefore have problematic events compared to the reconstruction of their internal democracy, has passed in recent years from 20,000 to 100,000), we have witnessed an incredible reduction in schools, courses and readerati, which in the school years 2010/2011 and 2011/2012 has been 193 places, in 2012/2013 138 places and now 61 other places. All this with reality, like the Italian school in Istanbul, which are precious, not only for our image, but even more for our stable presence, that in countries like Turkey - we cannot hide it - can have very positive repercussions also in terms of trade relations. On these issues I have tabled an urgent question 3-00774, published on 4 March 2014, in which, in addition to a series of data, I would ask that the future prospects be clarified. Because what the school lacks in Italy and is even more lacking in a policy of cultural presence abroad is exactly this. The subject is not only the resources, but how they are used and what criteria they intend to adopt: criteria that need to be clarified. I intend to have answers both on the data and, even more so, on what is the plan for the future of this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-247.ana.u133	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 27 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.38 p.m.
