ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u4	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u8	The next item is the joint debate on document LVII, No 2, and government communications on the report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. I call Mr Padoan, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Economic and Finance Document approved by the Council of Ministers describes, in general and in detail, the Government's programme, which is based on three main pillars: to support in the short term the rising recovery, through tax relief, debt payment and investment; to regain competitiveness and support the growth of the economy, through the reduction of the tax wedge, structural reforms and simplification; to maintain credibility and discipline in public finances, in order to limit the cost of debt. Since 2009, i.e. since the beginning of the subprime crisis and during 2012 and 2013, the Italian economy has been affected by a period of deep and prolonged recession. From the peak point at the end of 2007 to date, the crisis has caused a cumulative GDP loss of around 9 percentage points. In 2012-2013 alone, potential growth decreased by 0.7% and 0.4% respectively. Despite the strong contraction of the potential product, the gap between the observed and the potential growth showed particularly negative values. According to the European Commission's winter forecast, the gap was 4.3% of the potential product in 2013, very close to the minimum value since 1965 and below the level considered representative, i.e. that level which, according to the European Commission's methodology, should prevail under normal cyclical conditions. Despite the signs of recovery that have already emerged in the current year, in 2014 the gap will remain particularly negative and below the representative level. The economic recovery, which is still fragile, is associated with the liquidity conditions of companies still far from acceptable levels. The labour market situation remains very difficult. In the light of these considerations, the Government considers that macroeconomic and financial conditions require a reconsideration of the profile of the approach to the medium-term objective, represented by a balanced budget in structural terms. The Government has already explained in detail and with a precise timetable how it intends to cope with the continuing adverse cyclical conditions, through short-term stimulus actions, such as the payment of outstanding debts by the public administration, and with structural reforms. So here I would not like to repeat what is stated in detail in the DEF. On the other hand, I would like to briefly describe the reasons that led the Government to request an absolute majority vote. The need to equip public bodies with the resources necessary for the implementation of the actions that is intended to be adopted results in an increase in the net balance to be financed by about 20 billion in 2014 alone, and in the total needs of public administrations of about 13 billion, again in 2014, from which results a corresponding increase in public debt. Part of the increase in the net balance to be financed is linked to State-assisted regional debt restructuring operations, which will allow the regions to change the temporal profile of debt repayment charges, including in relation to which the level of net issues will have to be updated. Given the extraordinary nature of intervention to accelerate payments on public debt, there is no permanent effect on other public finance balances. The purpose of the payment of the residual component of the past debts of the public administration is to mitigate the liquidity restrictions common to many companies. Moreover, the intervention will not be limited to the repayment of outstanding commercial debts alone, but will shorten payment times in line with European rules, giving rise to positive effects of reducing entry barriers, as recently estimated by the European Commission. In order to facilitate the payment of outstanding debts of the public administration, the Government intends to make use of the exceptional event procedure provided for in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012. This legislation provides that, in the event of exceptional events, the Government, if it considers it essential to depart from the policy objectives, after consulting the European Commission, shall submit to Parliament a report and a specific request for authorisation indicating the size and duration of the deviation and shall be defined a re-entry plan allowing it to converge towards the medium-term objective. The resolution of each Chamber, by which the deviation from the programmatic objectives is authorised, must be voted by an absolute majority of the respective members. To this end, I would like to put to your attention the report on debt and public debt contained in Chapter III of Section I of the Economic and Financial Document. This report clarifies what the government's overall strategy is: as I recalled, in addition to countering the adverse effects of the recession, through the payment of past debts of the public administration, it is intended to promote the return of the economy on a sustained path of potential growth. To this end, the Government has undertaken to rapidly approve a package of structural reforms, the scope and effects of which are described in detail in the National Reform Plan. Article 3, paragraph 4, of Law No 243 of 2012, in line with the European Regulations, explicitly provides for a form of flexibility on the convergence timetable towards the medium-term objective in the presence of important structural reforms, which have a positive impact on the medium-term budget and on the medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances, through an increase in potential growth. These reforms are assessed by the European Commission with regard to their consistency with the economic policy guidelines, including those recently highlighted in the in-depth review process on the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. In the presence of important structural reforms, it is possible to temporarily deviate from the convergence path towards the medium-term objective. Temporary deviation is permitted provided that an appropriate safety margin is maintained in relation to the reference value of the deficit-GDP ratio and that the budgetary position returns to the medium-term objective within the period covered by the Stability Programme. During 2014, the reduction in the structural balance will be 0.2 percentage points of GDP, instead of the 0.5 percentage point reduction required by the Stability and Growth Pact for countries still far from their medium-term objective. The slowdown in convergence towards the medium-term objective in 2014 is offset by the Government's commitment, starting in 2015, to implement a return plan to fully achieve the medium-term objective in 2016. In 2015, the structural deficit would start to decline by 0.5 percentage points thanks to a consolidation manoeuvre financed by a reduction in expenditure of 0.3 percentage points of GDP on the primary surplus. The budgetary balance in structural terms would be fully achieved in 2016 and would be maintained throughout the programming horizon until 2018. Complementing the return plan there is also an ambitious privatisation programme that provides for the disposal of state activities for about 0.7 percentage points of GDP over the three-year period 2014-2017. The corrective measures for the coming years and the discharge plan already ensure the rapid return of the greater debt-to-GDP ratio following the further payment of past debts from next year. The policy profile of the debt-to-GDP ratio thus complies with the rule of the debt convergence path towards the European parameter of 60% since 2015. That is why the Government is calling on Parliament to vote by an absolute majority. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups), PI and SCPI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u10	The rapporteur, Senator Marino Luigi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report on the 2014 Economic and Financial Document. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the 2014 Economic and Financial Document consists of three sections: the first on the stability programme, the second on the evolution of public finance, the third on the national reform programme. Compared to the past, these three sections are highly integrated. As the Minister recalled here, the primary objective of the government is to consolidate the exit from the financial crisis and also economic through a very demanding chronoprogram. The Government is committed to translating three levels of structural reforms into practice and in the near future: constitutional and electoral, the competitiveness of the Italian system and the modernisation of the labour market. The government indicates these measures in the DEF (you know them all, so I quote them only by memory): the revision of expenditure with a stable trend; savings of 4.5 billion in 2014, 17 billion in 2015 and 32, a regime, in 2016; the revision of taxation with the reduction of the tax wedge for both families and businesses; the acceleration of privatisations (and I also hope of the liberalisations) in order to avoid that citizens who can receive an advantage from the review of taxation do not lose it with the increase of the rates; the disposals of public companies and the sale of the real estate, for revenues equal to 0.7 points of GDP per year for three years; the full payment of the commercial debts of the public administration; the improvement of the entrepreneurial environment (also to promote the attraction of capital abroad); the improvement of the labour market and the reform of the public administration. The government also reminds us that they are either at the start or already parties: the school plan, the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, the home plan and the investments planned for cohesion policy. The 2014 Economy and Finance Document is characterised by realistic and prudential growth forecasts. The estimates contained therein do not differ from those of the main forecasting institutions, both national and international. On the basis of these forecasts, the document outlines a macroeconomic framework which is still uncertain - as the Minister recalled just now - but which gives a glimpse of growth. Italy is slowly emerging from the harshest post-war recession. As you know, in the period 2017 to 2013 GDP fell by almost 9 percentage points in total and last year too, both because of the grip of restrictive fiscal policies and because of difficulties in accessing credit for households and businesses, GDP contracted by almost 2%. The recovery started in recent months therefore predicts a growth rate, according to the Government, of 0.8% for the current year, of 1.3% for the next year and an average trend for the period between 2016 and 2018 of 1.7%. The recovery in employment will still be limited, the inflation rate will fall compared to the previous year, but is expected to rise in 2015, while remaining low. These forecasts do not consider the expected effects of the structural reforms announced by the Government that the same Document estimates positive over the entire forecast period and that figure for this year around 0.3% to reach in 2018 at more than 2 percentage points of GDP. As we all know, public finances showed a net debt of 3% in 2013 in relation to GDP, in line with the planned target. This year, the DEF expects a debt of 2.6%, 1.8 percent in 2015, 0.9 percent in 2016 and 0.3 percent in 2017, and thus the values are below the threshold of the European order, which is 3% of the deficit. The comparison between net programmatic debt and current legislation shows that for the financial year 2014 there is no need to make a net correction of the balances. The achievement of the objectives will require a correction in 2015 and 2016-2018. The Document states that part of the correction will take place through expenditure reductions implemented as part of the spending review process. The announced structural reforms will not have a negative impact on budgetary balances as adequate means of financial cover will be found. In this respect, there is a first observation from the 5th Commission that, without at all derogating from the mandatory coverage, there may be adjustments in progress: the government must indicate how and where the coverage becomes structural to the one-off coverage of the first year. It is necessary to know, as required by the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, the articulation of the maneuver necessary to achieve the objectives for at least a three-year period, as well as a general indication of the measures to be taken. With reference to the spending review, however, on the basis of the debate that emerged in the Budget Committee, the Government will have to provide in the next Update Note to the DEF more details on the effects - on the demand side and on the supply side - of the revision of expenditure on economic growth (-0.1 points of GDP in cumulative terms in 2018). The Document clarifies that the revenue forecasts are constructed considering the financial effects associated with the legislative measures adopted throughout March 2014, with particular reference to the payments of past debts of the public administration. On the other hand, the Government will have to provide clarification on the assessment of the effects on tax revenues of the prospects for improving the macroeconomic framework. I would like to point out to the Senate Assembly that among the measures that increase revenue there is a forecast of reductions in tax concessions in force, such as to ensure higher revenues of 3 billion in 2015, 7 billion in 2016 and 10 billion from 2017. Moreover, the estimates indicated do not appear to include the effects of the measures announced on the reduction of the tax wedge. The increase in the IRPEF deduction for employee income would result in lower estimated tax revenues, on an annual basis, of around 10 billion. Such intervention would find financial cover in the reduction of public expenditure. We hope that this will be the case and that no action will be taken on the question of increasing the tax burden. On the other hand, it does not appear that the estimated financial effects of the announced 10% reduction in IRAP, for which financial coverage is expected to be modified to the tax regime of financial annuities, a measure which is clearly contrary to the need to reduce the tax burden. We believe that the downward profile of the tax burden in Italy must be strengthened. From this point of view, I would stress that support for supply and demand must be conducted in parallel and not in opposing teams. It is therefore important that the reduction of the IRPEF on persons and households and that of the IRP on enterprises is conducted in parallel. The document presents a programmatic picture of the structural balances of public finance that deviates from that envisaged for Italy from the European and national budgetary rules. The DEF supports - and reiterated in its opening speech the Minister of the Economy - the non-opportunity to proceed at this cyclical stage to a correction of the budget balance, which would risk slowing down the recovery started in the last quarter of 2013. The document explains the slowdown in the path towards the medium-term objective also on the basis of the intention to prepare structural reforms that could increase the growth rate of potential GDP, having been the longest recession than expected. I would like to remind you that from summer 2011 to the whole of 2013 corrective manoeuvres have been carried out by the Berlusconi, Monti and Letta Governments for an amount of 67 billion, equal to 4.3 percent of GDP. We have achieved a top-notch surplus of all respect, which will grow from 2.6% of this year to 5 percent in 2018. Italian fiscal policies have always been cautious in recent years, and already since the subprime crisis Italy has achieved results with its own strength to cope with the emergency, continuing to provide its support to the financing plans of the European countries in difficulty. The document calls for the possibility offered by the budgetary rules defined by the Stability and Growth Pact and national legislation to temporarily deviate from the medium-term objective or the path towards it in the presence of serious economic recessions or in relation to the implementation of structural reforms, and that is what the Minister for Economic Affairs has just said. On the basis of these considerations, the policy framework allows for the achievement of a two-year structural balance - from 2014 to 2016 - but already in 2015 the deviation rate will be reduced to 0.1 per cent. As far as public debt is concerned, the 2014 Economic and Finance Document's policy framework shows an increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio, before the Italian contribution to support the euro area, from 132% to almost 135%, while in subsequent years a gradual reduction is expected to reach 120% in 2018. This dynamic is realised by serving revenues from privatisations of 0.7 percentage points of GDP per year, the payment in 2014 of previous public administration debts for an additional 13 billion, as well as the achievement of the medium-term objective in 2016 and its maintenance in the following years. The main road, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio is to increase the denominator, i.e. to increase the output. I do not know any country, any nation of the world that has reduced the debt by selling off its assets, and the growth of GDP passes substantially through the repositioning, the strengthening and the competitive modernization of the Italian productive apparatus [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , in parallel with the modernisation of public administration and physical and intangible public infrastructure and the increase in productivity of the country system. We often forget that the high level reached by our country in terms of industrialization, wealth, distribution of wealth is due to the ability of our manufacturing companies and services to produce wealth and employment. Our task is to create the best operating conditions (on tax, credit support, investment, capitalization, business size) because Italian micro-enterprises, Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, the few large Italian companies can restore trust to our country. To permanently lower the tax wedge of the weakest economically responds to a real need, understood in the DEF, and not to an electoral choice. But as an opposition senator in the Budget Committee said yesterday, it is not with a single drug that treats a complex disease like the Italian one, and creating the best operating conditions for the development of our businesses is certainly a life-saving drug. Finally, and finally, it should be recalled that the adoption by the Member States of the European Union of the new European system of accounts from September 2014 will result in a change in the criteria for the classification of institutional units for the purpose of membership or not in the public administration. This could lead to the entry of certain companies which are part of public bodies, currently classified as private institutional units, within the scope of public administration. On the basis of the financial statements of the companies themselves, the level of public debt could therefore vary from the current level, and therefore the Government will have to clarify in the Update Note whether this possibility is taken into account in the calculation of the implicit liabilities of the public administration. Senators and senators, all the main macroeconomic indicators, except for the construction sector, show in 2014 a positive value, from private consumption to household consumption, from gross fixed capital formation, especially in machinery, to export. Employment, as I said, after reaching its climax, is also being improved, especially since 2015. Unit labour costs, which increased by 1.4 in 2013, are expected to remain unchanged in 2014. But the improvement of the economy remains closely linked to respect for budgetary discipline and increasing credibility. Credibility is a report, it is a heritage on which we can count to achieve results and which can be increased or diminished in relation to behaviour. In the economy, credibility is defined as the ability of the authorities to convince private actors and international institutions that their commitments will be maintained and that future actions will be consistent with the announcements made earlier. Here, the loss of credibility is a cost that our country cannot afford right now. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Susta. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u12	The minority rapporteur, Senator Bonfrisco, requested permission to carry out the oral report on the 2014 Economic and Financial Document. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Bonfrisco.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u13	. Mr President, I begin by saying to the government here and to my colleagues in this House that the content of the DEF has never been symbolic, in the sense that it reflects exactly this kind of new wave that seems to be going through the political and institutional world since the new government took office. It is a different vocabulary, with images of reduced timings and stringent dismantlings, which accompany the announcement of major reforms and substantial changes. It is the idea of a new that advances inexorable and takes us out of the swamp of an old man that we cannot overcome. The Economic and Financial Document we have examined seems to me exactly on this line: it is a comprehensive, structured and time-consuming reform plan, as the majority rapporteur has pointed out, which wants to be the extraordinary instrument for relaunching the economy in compliance with the rules of European governance, whose positive effects are reflected in the brilliant development of macroeconomic and public finance magnitudes. But, you know, the devil is hiding in detail. And so the promises and enthusiasms are dampened if they hide loopholes and old tricks. First of all, I would like to point out that European standards must be maintained within the limits of Maastricht, which the President-in-Office of the Council had also given the impression that he wanted to set aside in a reckless way. The same is true of the postponement of the balance that the Minister confirmed to us this morning, having asked the Commission, with a letter that we did not know until yesterday, so much so that, in accordance with the procedure as provided for in our reform of the budget law, we are told that Europe takes note that the Italian Government moves that balance of balance over the years. I am also thinking of the many inconsistencies and perplexities that emerged during the examination in the Commission, and of those that will emerge here this morning, about the scale of the resources that should support the economic policy programme that the Government has outlined so intently. But the observations which important constitutional or other bodies have brought to Parliament's attention were equally sharp. The differences in evaluation are wide. The assessment of the development of the structural deficit in Italian documents was rather uncertain. Consequently, in the course of the year the figure has been varied several times, converging in the end with the European Commission's assessments, except for the values for 2015, for which the government expects a structural deficit of -0.1%, while the Commission expects a -0.8%. The comparison reveals the different approach. For the Italian Government the failure to respect the rule, that is that reduction of the structural deficit of 0,5 points, happened in 2014, but it will not happen in 2015, since for that year it is expected a reduction precisely of 0,5 percent. For the Commission, however, the imbalance remains structural in nature, thus in breach of the regulations, since for 2015 the structural deficit is not only not expected to decrease, but shows a slight increase of 0.2 points of GDP, compared to the previous year. The consequence of this different approach translates into a diametrically opposite economic policy line: while the Government is determined to assert the clause of exceptional events, as we have also heard from Minister Padoan this morning, the European Commission is faced with a real imbalance, which requires corrective manoeuvre in 2015, which can be estimated in a fork between 0.3 and 0.7 points, in order to bring that structural deficit back to the parameters on which the Government also committed itself for 2015. The final result will depend on a negotiation to be carried out by the Government in the European Union and, in any case, that corrective manoeuvre - ahinoi mandatory - will have to vary between about 5 and 11 billion euros. Also with regard to the performance of the public debt, the evaluations differ between the Government and the European Commission, although the comparison plays in favour of Italy, in the sense that the forecasts of the European Union are less pessimistic. But beyond the differences, in both forecasts it is evident that the debt in 2014 continues to grow, and much more so, which makes the rule of containment of the structural deficit more stringent by 0.5 points per year until you enter the security zone. I would like to remind all of us that we have returned from that safe zone by closing an infringement procedure for excessive debt. In October 2013, the Government had sent the 2014 Draft Budget Document to the European Commission, and the management was even in the sense of a containment, albeit light, trend that instead in this DEF has translated into its opposite. Then I think we should remember how dangerous and risky it is for us to be considered, not later than 5 March 2014 in a recommendation to the Council, together with Croatia and Slovenia, as a country that still has to take the necessary corrective action in accordance with the procedures envisaged. For Italy, in fact, it is written in another document that what has been done appears, at the moment, inadequate. As a result of the Treaties, there is now a constraint on the growth of expenditure. If it takes over from the parameters set, it must be immediately covered by more revenue. The same DEF approved by the Government recognizes that the parameters related to the so-called spending rule have not been respected, and this concerns us very much. Compliance with this rule would therefore require a corrective maneuver, or spending review or tax increase - inexorably one of the two - of about 7.5 billion in 2014. As I said before, there is a profound divergence between the views of the Italian Government and those of the European Commission on the state of public finance and the evolution of the cycle. Such differences must be settled in a close confrontation before taking decisions, such as those that we take today by voting on this DEF, which are likely to aggravate the Italian financial situation, exposing the country to a new risk of infringement. Without that necessary clarification, it seems to us that any attempt to seriously reason on IRPEF and IRAP reductions without worsening the structural deficit (and this for us would be unacceptable). But I would like to return to the big issues that, beyond the boundaries defined by the rules of accounting laws and agreements with the European Union, lie within this framework. Between the many inconsistencies and the many opacityes on the forecasts, I would like to remind you that there has been a wide debate on the estimates during the hearings held by the Joint Budget Committees of the House and Senate. Many of the estimates and forecasts have been largely denied by bodies such as ISTAT, with regard to the beneficial effects of the so-called IRPEF cut. In this case, as ISTAT reminds us, the bonus could vary between 451 and 796 euros per year, equal to 40 or 65 euros net per month, with random coverages that will have to be included in the relief, as announced Renzi. We fear that the weakness and fragility of those covers may also see ISTAT's estimates halved. So it is not just us who say that the somewhat pompous coverage announced by the President-in-Office of the Council is insufficient to finance the IRPEF cut for lower incomes. Bankitalia did the same: as we wanted to demonstrate, Bankitalia certifies - that, in 2015, the expenditure savings indicated as the maximum value obtainable from the spending review will not be sufficient alone to achieve the programmatic objectives if they were to finance the remission of the IRPEF and also give coverage to the disbursements related to the programs already existing and included in the legislation in force. I leave out the precise analysis carried out by the International Monetary Fund, because the International Monetary Fund also basically rejects this DEF, officially declaring what is known to all of us: in order to be effective for growth, the reduction of the tax burden must be permanent and structural. The Fund therefore talks about reducing the tax burden. And instead in this DEF the tax pressure certainly increases for the years 2014 and 2015. Too bad that the measures contained in this document, inconsistent with this principle, move over time that of reducing the tax burden which is the only weapon and instrument to really combat this crisis. I do not quote now, but I will certainly do so later on, the figures and concerns of the Court of Auditors. Here, united all together, these considerations give a picture that denies the serenity and tranquility with which many colleagues today, believing to vote a Document of economics and finance positive for the country, will instead - alas - sadly be denied by the trend. This government bet is too risky; we ask that it be more solid from the point of view of coverage and that it really helps our country to start coming out of a long crisis that, from financial, has poured into the real economy and that requires us to make very salty accounts with the balance between public accounts and resources invested for development and growth. I therefore believe, as a minority rapporteur, that this DEF, despite its optimistic estimates, which I consider - I repeat - a venial sin (because we would miss anything else that a government would make pessimistic estimates!) can be more contentful and realistic than the objectives it has set itself. Our judgment is, at the moment, very critical, and we will listen carefully to everyone's contributions during the debate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u14	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the time of the debate has been shared among the Groups. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the conclusion of the joint debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u15	Mr President, once again we are faced with a huge project of paper proposals, enriched with terms such as standards, spreads, surpluses, deficits, subprimes, elegantly sumptuous terms that end up assuming the value of word-fetish. But to restore dignity and strength to school, university, research and tourism do not need terms such as mission or smart: we need planning, projects, programs to be implemented, to be made feasible and practicable, with a real vision of the future. The impression that one gets by reading the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance, with particular reference to school, university and cultural heritage, is to be faced with a country that has very little to do with the real need, life and daily life. We are talking about improving quality and efficiency, without specifying the method for achieving these results, without rationalising the existing resources, continuing with the policy of self-transfusion as the only system in order to be able to finance the universe of the school. Keep in mind that the entire sector of culture for several years has been constantly sacrificed on the altar of the spending review and the insistent and often substantial cuts that have weakened every possibility of development up to the vital limit. In this document the real nodes are not dissolved like the blocking of salaries in the public employment, the continuation of the blockade of contractual renewals, the scarcity of resources for intermediate consumption. It makes you smile to hear about digital school and new technologies when institutions have to tax themselves for the purchase of toilet paper and photocopies paper. The recruitment system, the precarious, the serious and continuous lack of teaching continuity in the school: these are the focal points to be implemented, not with simple transfers of funds from the FOE to the FIR, to the FAR, in a continuous game of moving titles written on lids of empty boxes. Let us turn to university and research, which is the focus of a country that wants to renew itself and innovate: we must choose, evaluate the merit of researchers and teachers, between quantity and quality, and adhere to criteria of meritocracy for recruitment, because so far, with the ANVUR, all this has been to say the least obscure. Not to mention tourism and the enhancement of cultural heritage, where in this case we are faced with a real abyss of absence, disinterest and total neglect. Tourism, which for the richness of our territory should be the flywheel for growth and well-being, and cultural heritage, priceless heritage and value that instead is relegated to the underground, are in total and continuous carelessness. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] Yet, there are programs and guidelines that could give real scope and support to commitments such as the implementation of information and communication technologies, as well as the observations that have been made by the Conference of Regions and Provinces, with a partnership agreement for programming 2014-2020, where valorization, promotion and protection of material and intangible cultural heritage are the real economic development of this country. It is clear that the DEF program is pure propaganda, free of any possible implementation, where an explicit reference to the citizen who faces, often in solitude, the slow and cumbersome state apparatus is absent and where institutions, school, justice and health appear far away, unreal and managed in an irrational way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u16	We greet the students of ' [[Multi-comprehensive institute "Brunico-Val Pusteria" in Brunico, in the province of Bolzano, which today attend our works. (Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u17	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u18	Mr President, we have tabled a motion for a resolution which is very different from the one that is likely to be presented by the majority: it is also very different in its content and tone, especially in relation to the register used by the Government in the drafting of the 2014 DEF. We believe that all the measures and sacrifices demanded of the citizens by the government are bloody battles, but against windmills, precisely in the face of those much more stringent constraints to which unfortunately our economy is subject. The 2014 DEF presents disappointing macroeconomic data - a slow-down rate of growth of the world economy, the persistent decline in GDP and the increase in the unemployment rate to 12.1% in 2013 in the Eurozone - also accompanied by a persistently high level of debt that, as the Minister has just mentioned, will increase again. The spectre of deflation and stagnation are now agitating all economists. Our country is experiencing constant and widespread impoverishment. And it's not us who say it, it's ISTAT. More than 30% of people living in our country are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Since 2011, this indicator has been growing by 1.7 percent per annum. The risk of poverty or social exclusion is 5 percentage points higher than the European average. But the real excatombe is the one that emerges from the unemployment data in our country. Work is the real emergency, which affects every family: all those who have an exodus father, a young unemployed person or a mother in an integration fund. It is the work that gives us, as well as a sustenance, a dignity, a place in the world, the desire to build and plan the future. And it is precisely the lack of a working perspective that makes us ashamed, despair and think of extreme solutions. With Minister Padoan, in the hearing, and with many colleagues who have spoken, we have discussed the issue of fantastic 80 euros in paychecks, exquisite if it was right to give them in paychecks (so as IRPEF relief) or if, instead, to give this money to companies. I understand this is all the language of economic theories, but we're here to put people at the center. Workers are not just customers to be stimulated to buy more things, or production machines to offer more cheap goods. The market and GDP are key players in this reasoning. The reality is another. The people I see, at least on my territory, do not ask for any extra money as they please, but they want a country system and a labour market that offer the opportunity to demonstrate their desire to work and build. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Work is the first step to look high and confidently at reality, to build a family, to make projects. It is sad and cynical not to take into account the moral, cultural and social value of work itself. To restart the country in order to offer all this, especially to our young people, requires, of course, very expensive policies. It's the most trivial observation, but let's do some math. Since the introduction of the euro in 2002, monetary policy has been transferred to the ECB, while fiscal policy has been almost entirely devolved to the European Union, with the approval of the fiscal compact in 2012. Today, without the monetary and fiscal levers, it is no longer possible for a government of a Member State to pursue an economic policy. So, the DEF we know what it can be useful for. In the two years 2011-2012 two new Treaties were produced that have effectively cancelled the fiscal autonomy of the individual Member States, to the benefit of all and exclusively of the Commission of the European Union. The fiscal compact will impose a debt reduction of about 40 billion a year. Therefore, since 2016 we should find, in some way, 40 billion more each year to be allocated precisely to the constraints laid down in the Treaty. We're talking about 40 billion for 20 years. I repeat: for 20 years. This is a huge figure, which prevents any other economic policy of this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But that's not all. The European Stability Mechanism (ESM) - I am referring to the so-called State-saving fund - has a financial capacity of EUR 700 billion financed by all Member States. In the Italian case we have committed ourselves to an amount of 125 billion: 15 billion will be paid by Italy between this year and next, but if it happens that they ask us, within seven days of the request we should give immediately, unconditionally and irrevocably the remaining 110 billion. This is precisely to help countries in difficulty such as Greece, but also Spain, whose banks have taken the money, while we have not even those! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Faced with these EUR 125 billion, imagine how many things can be done. On the other hand, the EUR 7 billion that we could invest in workers is very little. All this is happening under the euro chains, which prevents us from taking any money and any action to promote exports that are the strength of our companies. At the moment, the only real support to our accounts comes from an incredibly low spread, which results in billion-dollar savings on our interest spending. In the DEF, however, the government expects that this favourable spread will last forever. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, I invite you to conclude. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, I'm almost done, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we who were there have seen how, instead, it is a variable gone crazy out of all control of the government. Mr President, there is a need for common sense and honesty: common sense on the part of those who govern and those who realise that we cannot pay billions of euros to Europe, in a situation where we do not have the resources to guarantee the essentials; honesty on the part of Europe in taking responsibility for its policies in solidarity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u19	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Government of the Slogans announced the package of labour reforms, it did so with great media twists, aimed at shocking people and making them smell the idea of a substantial reform. But, as Tomasi of Lampedusa wrote, everything changes to change nothing. This is a mode to which the majority is more than accustomed and so, as in a fairy tale, the slogans followed a series of ads in the DEF, since this is about: announcements of delegated laws. However, let us analyze the only concrete thing that the Government has succeeded in launching: Decree-Law No. 34 of 20 March 2014, or rather the decree on the new modern slavery. The aforementioned decree allows that the fixed-term contract can be concluded avoiding the imposition of the causality (i.e. the reason why it is concluded) and that it can be repeated, in this way, for as many as 8 times in 36 months. In short, with the countless possible extensions envisaged by the slavers of the new millennium, a contract that is not flexible is made flexible and labour law is being dismantled. The same decree, in Article 2, for the apprenticeship contract, eliminates the obligation of the employer to subscribe to the training plan, thus distorting the same essence of the contract and completely breaking down what is the didactic programming of the apprentice. All this is implemented by this Government and its hypocritical majority, violating the Charter of Human Rights, violating the rights enshrined in the European Social Charter, violating the Italian Constitution and - as confirmed by the jurisprudence produced by the Italian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice - violating the objectives and principles underlying the Council of the European Union Directive No 70 of 1999. Within the framework of the Directive, the Contracting Parties have agreed that the objective of the Framework Agreement on fixed-term work - I quote the words - in order to refresh the memory of senators who pretend not to know it - is to create a regulatory framework for the prevention of abuse resulting from the use of a succession of fixed-term contracts or employment relationships. What does the Renzi Government do then? It derogates precisely from the objective of the agreement contained in the directive and gives the Italian workers the blow of grace. The Italian workers thank Minister Poletti - absent from the Chamber at this moment - for having produced the anthem to precariousness: perhaps the workers of different cooperatives, from which I receive reports today, are accustomed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The low wages and abuse of short-term part-time contracts are symptoms of a sick system that brings people to a halt and exploits them to the point of exhaustion, without guarantees. For the past 12 months I've heard you talk about flexsecurity, Biagi, labor law. Well, now I want to tell you one thing: you have no right to do so, because you betrayed the Biagi White Paper, which has nothing to do with what you call the Biagi Reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Biagi himself wrote that there can be no flexibility without an adequate system of income protection and support. Biagi proposed a reform that you have betrayed in all its aspects, applying savagely flexibility and precariously the work. The proposal of the 5 Star Movement on citizenship income intervenes precisely on that part of the reform that you have never wanted to put in place; it brings economic security within the Italian families; it combines active policies with the unemployment and unemployment of the citizen; it makes the citizen the protagonist, putting at the center the project of life of every person, and avoiding the social marginalization and blackmail of the work to which the Italians are subjected. Yeah, I forgot that you know well our proposal on citizenship income: you rejected it when examining the law of stability. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Scibona]] , except then - Mr. Head of the Council of Ministers absent - copy its core principles and propose them in the delegation law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u21	Senator Catalfo, I invite you to conclude, because you have gone far beyond the time allocated to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u22	CATALFO (M5S). Not bad: that he should finally come to favor the Italian citizens. But I know that you will hardly be able to implement it, because it is precisely with the weapon of blackmailing work that you keep Italian citizens with your noose around your neck. We of the 5 Star Movement fight for citizens' rights, because we are Italian citizens. In announcing our no with respect to the non-existent work plan contained in the DEF, we shout today and forever what you want to make Italians forget: protection of rights, income of citizenship and freedom. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u23	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, government representatives, there are countless questions and contradictions emerging from the 2014 DEF. The Document that the Government presents for the examination in the Chamber, in fact, within the framework of the programmatic, an increase of the GDP pairs to 0.8% for the current year, to 1.3% for 2015 and to an average annual value pairs to 1.7% for the period 2016-2018. These estimates - as is easy to point out - are very optimistic compared to the European Commission's evaluations, which forecast a smaller increase in GDP for both 2014 and 2015. But this is not the only serious divergence with the Commission's forecasts. Even more worrying are the profound differences in the assessment of the structural deficit. The assessment of the development of the structural deficit, in the DEF, has significantly changed compared to the Update Note of September 2013; the latter, in fact, provided for a decrease in the structural deficit of 0.6 per cent, while the current DEF provides for only 0.3 per cent; a change that is defined in the DEF 2014 as a temporary deviation of the adjustment path towards the balance of the budget in structural terms. In Italy, this path provides for a decrease in the structural deficit of at least 0.5 points per year, an objective that is not achieved for 2014; the consequence is that the medium-term objective, which provided for the correction of structural net debt in 2014, is postponed to 2016. This lack of objective implies voting by an absolute majority of those entitled to the report, which justifies the deviation and provides for a return to the medium-term objective for the next financial year. However, I would like to point out an even more worrying point. In the DEF, the return to the medium-term objective is expected in 2015: a decline in the structural deficit of the 0.5 percent foreseen in the Treaties. From 0.6% in 2014, in fact, you expect to fall to 0.1 percent. Unfortunately, the European Commission has a completely different view of the Italian route: not a fall to 0.1%, but even an increase to 0.8%. This assessment of the country's financial situation, even opposed to that predicted by the DEF, reveals two completely different conceptions: that of the Government, which considers the excess of structural deficit merely accidental and therefore attributable to an exceptional event capable of triggering the procedure "salvifica" referred to in the Regulation of the European Union n.1177/2011 (as was later translated in Article 6 of Law n. 243 of 24 December 2012) and that of the Commission, which evaluates this imbalance as permanent and structural and which, consequently, is in full violation of the rules of the Regulation of the European Union n. 1175/2011, with the almost certain result of an opening of infringement for our country. All the more so since the Commission, on 5 March 2014, recommended to the Council that Italy, Croatia and Slovenia take the necessary corrective action in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Macroeconomic Packaging Procedure (MIP). As a result of the Treaties, there is a constraint on expenditure growth. If it exceeds the parameters set, it must be covered by higher taxes. In the present case, it is the same DEF that recognises that the relative parameters have not been met, justifying it with the fall of GDP in 2013. Compliance with this rule would require corrective action, be it a spending review or an increase in taxes, with a capacity of approximately €7.5 billion. It is therefore clear that there is a new profound divergence of views between the European Commission and the Italian Government, including with regard to the state of public finance. These are differences that require a powerful effort to be settled through a close confrontation before making decisions, which risk increasing the state of Italian finance, exposing the country to risks of infringement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to come to the conclusion, Senator Mandelli. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. Among the other critical issues that arise, particular attention must be paid to the reduction of the IRPEF: the coverage for this action, at least to hear what President Renzi has been saying for some time, seem to be difficult to execute, uncertain and, in any case, largely linked to one-off actions: of the 6,7 billion euros expected, in fact, 4,5 billion euros would result from the spending review, of which nothing is yet known and of which the real scope is doubtful; the other 2,2 billion euros would come from the increase of the VAT revenues deriving from the payments of the debts of the public administration, which is a simple maneuver of anticipation, and in any case is a one-off, and from the increase of the tax of the re-evaluation of participation in the capital of the Bank of Italy: this is also a one-off operation, on which however weighs the strong doubts already expressed by the European Commission, as well as those of the Governor Visco. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would once again urge you to conclude your speech, because it has gone beyond the time allowed. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking for permission to hand over the remainder of the speech so that it can be annexed to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). In view of the serious differences between the Italian Government's DEF and the European Commission's assessments, the objective risks of worsening the situation of public finance, the concrete possibility of opening up to us to infringement procedures by Europe, I see no other possibility for the Government to withdraw the DEF and retable it as amended and corrected. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u25	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u26	Mr President, we know that this year the DEF is important because, according to the rules of the European Union, the countries of the Eurozone will no longer be able to confine themselves in the various DEFs to a simple list of good intentions, but will be bound in order to strengthen the coordination of tax policies in Europe. Instead, this DEF, consisting of about 1500 pages (among macroeconomic analyses, tables and National Reform Plan) is just one unrealistic spot. Beyond the numerous statements of principle that have been repeated for years, the only novelty is the activation of the exceptional procedure provided for by the introductory law of the balance sheet, which, in order to be able to deviate from the plan of return in the medium term, evokes exceptional reasons. In practice, we are beginning to serve the bluff made up of the rules of the various packs that were to restore stability. For almost a decade we have been in this endless tunnel, waiting for a recovery always announced and served with tears and blood to the Italian people. Only a year ago we admonished the old government, governed by the same majority, about the usefulness of the 2013 DEF to impact the crisis and we proposed an alternative document to that. Only now is it admitted that the so called for and praised austerity policy has been a failure, but nothing continues to be said about how much it weighed, for example, on that failure the contributions that have seen us participate in the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Fund and the provision of bilateral loans to Greece, which weighed €36,932 million in 2012 and €55,620 million in 2013 on our overall debt, which now travels over 133%. On the basis of what we now expect to justify the procedure to convince the EU not to open an infringement procedure, we are unknown. No structural intervention is planned. Nor can it be defined as the one-off, so much declaimed and sold on the consent market, of the 80 euros per month (by the way for a single month) on the income of households, and not even all: only those that can boast an income of dependent labour. In fact, given the risk that the loss of the benefit for the deduction of the dependent spouse, foreseen in the famous jobs act, would come into effect, the benefits that should derive from this measure on domestic demand (truly weak point of the national macroeconomic framework) would be reduced to 25 poor euros, on which it seems very difficult to count for a restart of the economy. It is easy to understand that a normal family, which cannot even plan the monthly horizon, will keep this money entirely for fear of tomorrow. Only structural plans indicated are that of privatization and that of the sale of the real estate. The first provides for a collection of about 0.7% of GDP per year and we know that, every time it has been planned, it has turned into a sale of our industrial assets, without any benefit to the citizens (we have the example of Telecom); in a way that is not unlike the sale of real estate. But the conditions of access to credit continue to be the problem, as well as the problem, on which nothing is said, of how internationalization has changed into the relocation of Italian companies... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come to the conclusion, please. MOLINARI (M5S). ...which, in fact, has weakened the national production plant and the macroeconomic framework. Finally, nothing is foreseen to prevent the use of the few resources activated from being confined to specific geographical areas at the expense of the South. It is appropriate for the whole panorama of this bitter national policy that the South be crushed by evil and clientelism, continuing to be considered only a reservoir of nameless votes: it is good to let the hopes of the southern youths dry under the sun of blackmail of an unemployment rate that exceeds 50%, as in Calabria! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We are sacrificing the enormous potential of a territory and its inhabitants, which could be a factor of revival for Italy as a whole, for the bieco cynicism of a political class that has transformed it into a territory relegated to a shelter of waste and poisons of all kinds, where every day blackmail is consumed between daily survival and public health, where civil rights are subject to negotiation and those who should be citizens are still subjects. You will soon be called upon to answer the Italian people for this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u27	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has presented the Economic and Financial Document with the aim of reconciling growth with respect for the path of fiscal consolidation. A shared end. However, when you go to analyze the individual measures it turns out that they are only paper castles ready to fall at the first breath of wind. Let us see, in particular, a few points. How can we think that 80 euros more, in paychecks, can be a help to families if they are involved in a sick and corrupt economic system? The measure is therefore not structural: it is a one-off donation of money, a measure with electoral purposes, absolutely useless for the economic growth of the country. These 80 euros will not bring the increase in expenditure: they will only be used to pay the debts that grab Italian families. Moreover, the Government grants with one hand and with the other removes, if we consider these 80 euros in relation to the increase of the TASI (which falls to 80% of the Italian families owners of the first house) and to the employees receiving the IRPEF bonus in increase in this last year. It is also unclear what the Government intends to do for the so-called incapients or for the 5 million Italians living in absolute poverty. To these, as Fr Ciotti reminds us, we must add another 4 and a half million who live in relative poverty. So, 9 million Italians waiting for an answer! Where are the structural measures to restart the economy? Compared to cutting the tax wedge, there is still no precise date for the decrease of IRAP to companies. The government assures that a specific measure will be made shortly, but companies can no longer wait. I would not want government policy to be based on announcements and not measures. A policy that is certainly more attractive, more media, but it is always and only a policy that we will do it, calendarizations that are punctually ignored. What industrial policy is emerging from the DEF? What idea of development is there? What kind of country do we want in three or five years? How do we intend to save jobs and create new ones? How do we intend to make the most of our exports? Work, fight against unemployment. In the DEF, it is argued that labour reform will aim to make forward contracts more consistent with the needs of the current employment environment, but I have a serious fear that this will rather lead to an increase in precariousness and weakening of collective bargaining. As ISTAT noted, from 2008 to 2013, almost a million people lost their jobs and unemployment over the next three years will still be above 12%. These are alarming data that the DEF does not give that strong signal that Italy needs right now. Another process of privatisation of state-owned companies is worrying, and very much so. The privatisation programme will have to be monitored very carefully since there is a risk, as has already been the case in the past, of selling family jewelry, the most attractive for the market, and of preserving only bad companies. And we've come to the DEF coverage. How much of the cut in the tax wedge will be financed by structural measures? Many have already raised this objection. The covers aren't structural, they're only for this year. Taxation at 26%, rather than 12%, of capital gains on the Bankitalia share transaction, VAT on payments of public debt, regularisation and repatriation of capital from abroad are clearly provisional measures. The expected increase in VAT revenue, as a result of public administration debt payments, is worthy of the best creative finance as it is uncertain to think of the higher tax revenue before the State has paid the debts to companies. In order to be effective for growth, the reduction of the tax burden must be permanent and structural, as well as permanent and structural, must be its cover. Here, the covers. Two thirds of the coverage would come from the spending review. But which ones? As far as the planned cuts in health expenditure are concerned, I would remind you that Italian health care is in a disastrous state. He doesn't need any more cuts. The only sensible thing to do would be to increase controls, hitting those who enjoy huge profits on the health of their citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come to the conclusion, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). Yes, ma'am. This, however, is a taboo, symbol of the interweaving of politics and business, as evidenced by the daily scandals: procurement, false admissions, false invalids, real scams related to the National Health Service or, better, the National Party Health System In this context, which is certainly not happy, we continue to spend EUR 1 billion to finance the presence of Italian soldiers in Afghanistan. This is a cost to cut. It is not demagogy or easy rhetoric my, it is simple common sense to respond to the needs of a country in difficulty. In the DEF I did not read a measure to hit the eternal problem of Italy: tax evasion, which is twice the European average. The fight against evasion means about 60 billion a year of higher revenue. Did I get a reduced version of the DEF, or was this part in the attached slides? Public debt, which enjoys a goddamn growth, now at 134.9%, increases and will continue to increase if we do not really change course. It's not enough to change direction. The country expects a strong signal, a signal that will not come. Growth will be only 0.8%; 0.6% according to the European Commission: figures equal to those predicted by Greece. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). I'm going to conclude. The 2014 DEF will thus also bring about the same results as the last five years: less growth, less employment and more public debt. Mr President, I would like to add the part of my speech that I have not read to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAPp and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u29	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u30	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a different view of the reasons for the continuation of the crisis than that defined in the Economic and Financial Document. We have a different idea because we have opposed, since the crisis has manifested itself, the hypothesis that the solution is to proceed with a violent contraction of public expenditure, especially of productive expenditure, with a contraction of investments, especially of productive ones and which create employment, with a strong reduction, within a heavy imbalance in the distribution of wealth, wages and salaries as the number of wages and salaries and as the consistency of the same. And today - as the President of the Council of Ministers also says - we discover that we were right, or rather, today the supporters of the thesis of recessive austerity discover that we were right and that they were wrong. And then, with respect to this hypothesis it is thought that finally solutions will be found consistent with this admission of guilt. No, you don't. Basically in the document of economy and finance is confirmed - and there are fairly clear signs - the approach of recessive austerity to the solution of the crisis, the inconsistency of attempts to make the electorate appear, that in the coming weeks will have to be convinced of the goodness of the interventions of the Government, that there is a significant attention to wages and salaries, therefore of the wages of the workers, a attention to the system of the enterprises, to the productive ability of the Country. We see some signs, but - as the unions have said quite clearly - there is yet another block of contracts for civil servants. And the civil servants are those whose income is largely below 25,000 euros and therefore the 80 euros that sell themselves as a great conquest, a attention to the workers, then in fact what do they mean if we put in the balance yet another block of contracts? A minimal amount of attention, which in the balance is negative. They also rightly point out that those 80 euros are a tax reduction, they are not an increase in salaries, they do not go on welfare, they do not increase guarantees. It is an attempt, even a clumsy one, if we want to, to pass as good a thing that is not so good in the end. So there is consistency with the previous draft, and I have had the opportunity to say so in this House since the beginning of my experience as a senator. The pact concluded is valid throughout 2015, so we can change Governments (we have changed many in recent years: from the Monti Government to the attempt of the Bersani Government, from the Letta Government and now to the Renzi Government, but it is not said that we have stopped) and the result is that the only coherent thing is the behaviour in the management of economic policies, public spending, the state budget: a management of recessive austerity that hurts the country, families, people! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups and Senator De Pin]] We do not agree with this idea and we would like to see the spending review, apart from the eBay sales announcements of blue cars; we have sold so many of blue cars in the last ten years that I have not yet been able to figure out where we hide them, because every President of the Council of Ministers who comes sells blue cars! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-GAPp groups and Senator Centinario.]] And the Presidents of the Council are not enough: there are then those of the Region, there are the mayors and there are also the presidents of the Province, those expired, now there are the commissioners; whoever has to administer sells blue machines. And where did we hide them? Nobody knows. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] Unfortunately, our expenditure does not qualify. The revision of spending should be precisely this: to understand where there is waste and certainly to intervene; but also to understand where and how we spend money badly and leave spaces not considered to be citizens' rights. I take the example of prisons, because there is so much talk of justice in this House: ten million ongoing proceedings, almost six million in civil justice. Now we have a reform of the civil process that has triggered all lawyers and are doing strikes, even to the extreme, in many parts of Italy, because the costs to the citizen to get to justice are rising and the times are very long. So how do we use public spending, how do we revisit it so that it is also the driving force of a positive economic change? We discussed a lot about the commercial debts of the public administration. We would like the data, the real ones; we would like to know how many companies have cashed in. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli.]] We would like to know if there are any parts of that expenditure that are frozen at the local authorities' coffers. We would like to know whether the computerized platform to which credit certification was to be accessed works, works well or needs to be revisited. Therefore, the revision of expenditure is not only a reduction, it is a qualification of expenditure. I conclude, because we can only oppose this manoeuvre with our critical attention, saying that we would like to know when, finally, a government of this country, this or the next, will dedicate itself to finding real solutions to relaunch the economy through the production and full involvement of workers, through occupational stability and the right to plan life. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAPp Groups and Senator Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u33	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, in my speech I would like to draw attention to one sensitive issue: taxation of Italian savings. You have stated that you intend to increase the taxation of financial income to 26% and with the revenues decrease the IRAP. In fact, what you are about to do is an economically and politically dangerous operation. First of all, a myth of your demagogy must be broken: in doing so, financial speculators who in the years of the crisis would even become richer and gave nothing to the community would be hit. Actually, it's not really like that. I would like to remind you that the taxation of financial income does not concern companies, banks and financial operators, who are subject to a different taxation, whose financial incomes are completely equal to corporate income. It does not concern foreign operators, who are subject to tax legislation in the countries of origin. It is not about the large families of capitalism, whose qualifying holdings, which exceed 2%, have a different tax treatment that is not affected by this maneuver. In fact, the tax base you intend to hit is the savings of Italian households, nothing else and nothing more, a value, among other things, constitutionally protected by Article 47. You have ambitious revenue targets and I will show you that taking action in this area involves more risks than benefits. Let's start with the government bonds. Increasing taxation on government bonds is a mere round: the State will be forced to return to the investor in terms of net return what it obtains in tax terms. Increasing corporate bond yield taxation means increasing the cost of financing companies on the market. Increasing the taxation of current account yields and bank bonds means increasing the cost of collection, which will inevitably be reflected in a tight employment situation. Only the increase in capital gain taxation remains, but what revenue can lead to this increase? A certainly uncertain revenue, because it obviously depends on how well the stock exchange is. The last year was particularly successful for the Italian stock exchange, but the previous two absolutely disastrous. Can we therefore consider this revenue to be a sure cover for IRAP reliefs? I'd tend to rule it out. It is also completely unfair social taxation. It should not be forgotten that in this age of crisis there are not a few families who, lost their jobs, live from the proceeds of their assets invested on the stock exchange. These small shareholders are now subject to a total tax that exceeds 30%, considering that their assets are also subject to the tax of 0.2 per thousand on the securities file, to the weird Tobin tax, which we apply only, and to the indeducibility of the commissions. The taxation of these incomes is therefore even higher than that of labour, which, moreover, enjoys ample possibility of deduction, with obvious profiles of dubious constitutionality. With these considerations, I believe, Madam Representative of the Government, that I have shown no doubt that the intervention that the Government is about to launch is detrimental to the economy, unfair from the social point of view and also unconstitutional for violation of Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution. Meditate, Ministers, meditate! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u35	Mr President, the accounting law outlines the functions that the Economic and Finance Document should have within the framework for economic and budgetary policy planning, having to draw from a medium to long-term perspective the commitments on the consolidation of public finances and the guidelines on the various public policies, commitments that Italy should adopt in compliance with the European Stability and Growth Pact and the European Strategy 2020. As we heard during the hearings, it seems that this DEF makes an overly optimistic effort when it presents the macroeconomic and public finance framework. The Government expresses with excessive enthusiasm the modalities and timing by which Italy should achieve the structural consolidation of public finances, but above all it expresses, equally fervently, the ways through which it intends to pursue the objectives of employment, innovation, education, social integration, energy and environmental sustainability defined within the European Union. Basically, the criticism that the 5 Star Movement moves to this plan lies in the fact that there is no effective integration between the action of rebalancing the public accounts and the structural interventions that this reform aims to achieve, all in view of the fact that there are many elements of uncertainty due to the context, both international and national. This DEF underlines that in 2013 the pace of growth of the world economy experienced a slight - I repeat, slight - slowdown compared to 2012. The Government itself admits that the growth prospects of the world economy for 2014 are part of a recovery scenario in which a greater contribution comes from developed economies, reinforced by domestic demand, in a context of reduced tensions on the financial markets. This is not the case, especially given that only in the first quarter of this year the signs of the global economic recovery are becoming unevenly uniform in the different areas. Therefore, we cannot say that Italy will be able to be supported by a global economy if the latter shows all its instability. For the Government, our country could see an acceleration of growth able to completely close the delay compared to the European partners, who, being economically weak, could allow Italy to have very low interest rates. So what does that mean? That growth will be linked to a real recovery in the international economy. But, alternatively, if this does not happen, the Government has decided to make its own the exceptional possibility according to which, in the presence of exceptional events, the country that requires it can be authorized at a deviation from the budgetary constraints, declaring which is the entity and the duration of the deviation and defining a plan of return that allows to converge towards the medium-term objective - constituted for Italy, precisely, from the structural balance - within the programming horizon of the DEF. According to this Government, structural reforms will improve the growth rate of the Italian economy and will lead in the medium term to a structural improvement of the budget balance and the sustainability of public debt over time. The return would be completed within the programming horizon of the DEF, since already in 2015 substantial balance would be achieved, while in 2016 a value of zero should be reached. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Eat, come to the conclusion. MANGILI (M5S). It should be understood how this return can be made possible. According to what we understand, additional fiscal manoeuvres would be quantified at 0.2 points of GDP in 2015 and 0.6 points of GDP in 2016. All percentage points should come exclusively from the expenditure side. At this point, we ask the Government: while admitting the exceptional event of the recession in which Italy has also collapsed, is it not that with this greater flexibility you run the risk of monitoring the actual achievement of the return goals by de facto widening the public deficits compared to the objectives that the return plan itself has set itself to achieve? The negative effects that certain policies continue to have on both income and employment should be clear to all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. MANGILI (M5S). I'll finish. The extreme variability of the measure of the structural balance, compared to even slight differences, and of the nominal debt would force the fiscal policy to continuous adjustments that could prove not easy to navigate. At this point, we ask you: do you mean every year, in April, to use the procedure that we are inaugurating today? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u36	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to devote my time to paying attention to the issue of justice, which is also affected by the provisions we have read in the DEF. Let's remember that already last year, exactly a year ago, when we analyzed the DEF, it jumped to our eyes (at the time the Letta Government was in office, but we read the document written by the previous government, the Monti one), the public confession, written black on white, that the increase of the unified contribution for civil causes was a measure consciously taken to discourage citizens from bringing civil justice. And we already asked ourselves a year ago whether that intention of government policy in the area of justice would remain the same afterward. The answers have been assertive in the facts and in the legislative measures adopted by the Government, especially in the matter of justice, always in the perspective of a backwardness by the State in the effective provision of the services due to the administration of justice, of the civil one above all, to which we often pay little attention, overwhelmed as we are by the scandalous initiatives in criminal matters (and yesterday's news is the last testimony). In the DEF today we have the confirmation that unfortunately the political will of these governments continues subject to the European will of the budgetary constraints and policies of the backwardness of the services of the State in every field. As the title indicates, the intention for swift and accessible justice is to reduce appeals to the TAR: the fact of reducing the number of appeals to administrative courts is seen in itself as a conquest aimed at faster and more accessible justice. Obviously, there is a contradiction here in terms: we do not understand why reducing - forcefully, as is clear - the possibility of resorting to administrative measures by the public administration can be something to boast about. It is also intended to limit the nickname of civil sentences. This measure, which is being promoted as a virtuous measure to reduce the burden of justice, also results in a sacrifice on the part of citizens in being able to have a more just civil judgment, at the time when an appeal is made and the judgment at first instance is changed. It insists on strengthening compulsory mediation in civil matters. Here too we are in a substantial area of privatisation, outsourcing of the judicial function of the Italian courts, entrusting it to private bodies whose effective action is still to be verified. But the data in our possession does not suggest a virtuous intervention in order to limit the number of cases and, when this happens, it is because the citizen once again is put before the situation of having to pay further before being able to do the civil cause.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u38	Finish, please, the time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u39	BUCCARELLA (M5S). One of the most scandalous things that we read in the DEF and that comes from the so-called Chancellors package, which we thought had finally been locked in a locked drawer, are the paid sentences: that is, the possibility to read the motivations of the judgments of first instance, that was previously a guaranteed service, included in the payment of the initial stamps of the unified contribution, must now be paid. The Government, in order to discourage citizens, to remove them and empty out of actual concrete content Article 24 of the Constitution (which establishes the right to defend its rights), requires that the citizen, through the intermediary in the justice service, who is the lawyer (and here I speak also on behalf of the lawyer, who is going through one of the worst moments in our history of recent decades), be forced to pay to read the reasons for a sentence and to understand if he can appeal. Basically, you play cards covered: to assess whether and how to appeal and appeal a judgment that has wronged me, I am forced to pay for the reasons. Another totally out of line call... president. Please conclude: your time has already expired for one minute. BUCCARELLA (M5S). The discipline in criminal matters on the irretrievable has already been the subject of parliamentary legislative provision, therefore the intentions of the Government that we read on the DEF, of wanting to act in this direction to decrease the criminal burden, are absolutely empty, useless and ultrone, because it is already provided in the bill approved by the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u40	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my deep uneasiness about the method that has been adopted: the DEF arrived in the Senate on Monday morning and today we leave him with an embarrassing concern. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The majority feel represented by the majority rapporteur alone, Senator Luigi Marino, who is an excellent person, but frankly it seems to me that we do not do things seriously. We complain that Germany counts more in Europe, but Germany, before forming the Government, has discussed the programme for three months. We define the document of economy and finance in four days, but of course we dedicate a few hours to it, and the government was done within a few hours and the discussion on trust took place in half a day. [[Applause from Senators Bertorotta and Candiani.]] The Minister explained in a very concise and dry way the need to pay the debts of the public administration. The Minister is a serious person, the President of the Council is a serious person, but also President Monti and Minister Grilli were serious, also President Letta and Minister Saccomanni were serious. Public administration debts paid up to now amount to 22 billion. The country's economic situation in 2011 saw an unemployment rate of 8.9, today the rate is 13%: we were below the European average, today we are above. That's the situation. I would like to briefly touch on a few points. The 1,500-page Document does not explain why tax evasion will finally be fought now, which continues to increase. Yet, in the survey of the Finance and Treasure Commission, we have received all those who deal with the problem that has explained to us that they work well. If, however, the people who deal with it work well and the escape remains dramatically high, it means that something does not work. The document does not explain what. We are talking about the disposal of buildings, but we are leaving a system that has not sold one until now, but has paid many salaries to some bureaucrats. I also hope that the taxes that have been placed on banks will not result in higher rates for customers, because in this way the economy would be penalized instead of being improved. Finally, I would like to put a question to the Government: if we succeed in reducing the IRPEF on employees, we are happy, perhaps it would be good if there were a greater relief, but why not remember those who earn the same figures but are retired or have gone VAT or are self-employed? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u42	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u43	Mr President, I must associate myself with what Senator Carraro said, in the sense that the time you have given us to study 1,417 pages, at the cost of EUR 72.40, is ridiculous. If we want to do a job well, in fact, we must have time to study in detail and in depth the data contained in these pages. On the other hand, this is the document that should predict how we will move the whole Italy system from here to three years. So this way of doing things is at least shameful, and we charge it to the person who sent it to us, that is to say to the government. Having said that, I just wanted to focus on a few points concerning the infrastructure sector. There is talk of public-private partnership to finance infrastructure and attract foreign capital. It is said that we want to make legislation separate from the public contract code in order to implement these measures. As we have said so many times in the Commission, if you do not like the code of public contracts, change it: it is not possible to continually make separate legislation. In Italy we have so many laws that a poor citizen Christ can never respect them: sometimes it is not even his fault. If the words derogation, exception or synonyms recur 60,000 times in the laws of the state, regional and company singing, how do you comply with a law? It takes some reason and intellect. If you don't like the contract code then why don't we go back to Regulation 350 of 1895, which worked very well in this country for a century? It is not a provocation, but I say it in a serious and convinced way! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] From 1994 to today we've screwed up! Half of it was enough, just take Regulation No 350 of 1895 - who, like me, lived it as an operator in the sector knows it - and bring some corrective measures: it would have worked fine! We've made a crazy mess and now, as written in the DEF, we want to approve a separate law. Also in the DEF it is written - there are many interesting things written - that it is necessary to centralize the races and create specialized centers in order to combine the system of the races. In the decree by which, according to someone, the Provinces were abolished (but we know that nothing has been abolished), instead we gave the Provinces an additional role, that of single contracting stations. The Provinces have become something more, and not something less. We have given the Provinces the role of the single contracting stations, but they were born from an agreement with the Provveditorato alle opere pubblica in order to tackle all the problems connected with organized crime. We gave the Provinces an extra task, and in the DEF we write that we want to do something else: another idiocy. There are so many other interesting things. Reading the Public Works Plan, it seems to me that it is a bit identical to that of a few years ago: I don't see any big acceleration shots. It seems to me that we're really bad at this. There is always talk of ports and the port offer, which is badly reduced. Switzerland has given us, as a grant, 200 million euros to make the connection with Milan. He gave them to us! Think how bad we are. Switzerland gives us the money to connect Milan with Rotterdam! We lost this game and now it would take a little bit of pride. We would like to ask, not only the Minister but this Government, what kind of pride they want to assure this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to return to the agenda for this sitting, which contains two points. I think that colleagues' attention has been focused on these two items on the agenda. We are not approving the DEF. We are, first of all, having the Senate approve this morning an authorization from the Senate so that we can overcome what has been the previous programming. In practical terms, we - in particular, all Italian citizens - should understand that this morning we sanction the failure of previous programming. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here discussing this authorization. That, in practical terms, is the agenda and the figure for this morning. It is a programming that has not escaped us for the past, regarding which we have always had serious doubts, and which culminates this morning in the request, by the Government, of the authorization, pursuant to Article 6 of the Law 24 December 2012, n. 243, which allows this Executive to derogate from what was the previous programming. I do not want to repeat myself, but there are two reasons for requesting this authorisation, the first of which is exceptional events compared to an economic data of a European or global nature. I believe - I say this by the way - that the period 2008-2011 was certainly worse than the period 2011-2013. But the important thing is, if not this element, that we must proceed, as the Government says, to structural reforms. This is also very perplexing, because, ladies and gentlemen, if this government were to send to Europe, attached to the request for authorisation, the so-called Delrio decree, we would be unable to do so. Compared to the abolition of the Provinces, the Delrio decree is in fact a legal obnoxious and is a shame. Therefore, I do not know what the annexes to the request for this authorisation may be, except the alleged temporal exceptionality of this period. I am not referring to numbers, as my colleague Bonfrisco has done, but to macro numbers that want to mean this. When President Berlusconi was deposed we were at the end of 2011. These are not numbers I give: the Bank of Italy gives them. At the end of 2011, Italian public debt was worth 1,907 billion. Today, or - better - at a month ago, we had the record of public debt, so all 2012 and all 2013 produced 200 billion public debt. Today the record public debt of a month ago is worth 2107 billion euros (it is data of the Bank of Italy). I'd like to understand. Those who deposed the Berlusconi Government should at least admit their responsibilities and stop. "The government is on a path of development": precisely the Minister, in the closing of his speech, said that the country is on a path of development. He used the term "path" well, because it referred to a road probably small and narrow. Mr President, I would call it a mule track, because this path is full of pitfalls and pitfalls. We're not gonna get out of this. The majority rapporteur, who has my estimate, not only personal but also political, said that it is not known whether in the evaluation of the DEF the government has assessed the debt of the participants. Mr President, I am referring to non-my own data: at 31 December 2012, the Public Finance Coordination Report gives, as a debt not yet in the budget, EUR 40 billion. As we begin to assess this type of debtor, we can see that to date our public debt no longer amounts to 2,107 billion, but already to 2,170 billion. The DEF does not speak of Mezzogiorno - there are no traces of Mezzogiorno in this DEF - and of how to solve the problem of public debt, but focuses on the request for authorisation in order to be able to prolong the re-establishment of the re-entry program since 2015. Probably there is a passage for May 25 of this year to have to give the 80 euros to the Italians or better - as my colleague Carraro rightly said - to the civil servants. I am happy with this, but we will not give it to families; we will not give it to pensioners living with 500 euros a month; we will not give it to self-employed workers. I am very sorry about this, which allows us to burn 10 billion, Mr President, and it will not solve any problem. I also realize that this government left a month ago, but if - as you know - good morning is seen from the morning, I think we are already late at night. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna and the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u46	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u47	Mr President, the fact that the Government does not take much account of parliamentary work has been seen with the constitutional bill. The DEF arrived in the Senate in paper form last Friday, opinions were already given yesterday and is now before the House. In any case, from the effort we have sustained, what has been won? Yes, it is true, the national programme refers to green growth, but as an oboleum that we all have to pay by now. There is no society that has not written in front of it green, green or organic, otherwise it is not good; however, there is a lack of the supporting structure, the framework within which to write all the programmatic and economic actions of growth in the environment. The actions provided for in the document refer to the environmental link, which the Chambers do not know, and to a series of measures that we see in a perspective of deregulation and failure with respect to environmental control, while the Government considers them great results; I refer, for example, to Destinazione Italia that, in Article 4, simplifies the procedures for the Bonifice of the SIN, with a real pardon, not even masked, and gives the beneficiaries funds for the relocation of the plants. The power of the state is completely lacking in the face of widespread lawlessness, the mafia that rapes the rules. Reference is also made to the draft law on simplifications of the public administration with regard to environmental authorisations, which can certainly be an economic relief for companies, but surely reduces the ambition of environmental protection. On the waste side, we recognize the need for a timely tariff but, in the face of the great experience gained on the territories in this area, we postpone everything and rely on yet another group of experts, as if we still had to study the problem; and then, what do we do? The differentiated collection targets that we should have achieved in 2012 are postponed to 2020. The use of the incentives for incineration, although for existing plants, and the determination to end the process for the cessation of the CSS waste qualification, for which we have also tabled a motion because we are absolutely opposed to the incineration of the CSS, and then there is always recourse to the Commission. It is paradoxical to include among the objectives of protection the simplification also in the matter of the management of the groundwater, of the lands and rocks, of campings, of authorizations VIA and VAS of the decree of the doing. With regard to energy saving, the 2013 Decree No 63 is celebrated as a victory, which has been implemented one year behind the 2010 Directive and does not go beyond 2015 for the stabilisation of ecobonus, and we are already lagging behind with Directive No 27 of 2012. A new energy model would be needed, which would no longer be linked to the old fossil sources, as the Minister still strives to say. A plan to evaluate the actual energy needs, a plan to decarbonise the country in the short, medium and long term, an industrial conversion plan, inspired by the principles of energy efficiency of all sectors and a national plan for professional retraining, resulting from energy conversion. According to the calculations carried out by Confindustria - therefore not by the 5 Star Movement - the employment balance between the conventional model and the one with the highest energy efficiency is active, with a factor of 5": this figure doubles up to a factor of 10" if it is considered the entire energy cycle and not only the energy efficiency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u48	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u49	Mr President, the DEF is a very serious document, on which all the Presidents of the Council, who have been involved in press conferences, say that they have done a very good job. They are always the same press conferences between them, in which they say that we are misplaced, but it is added that, with this document, things will be going very well and much better from next year. Yes, Mr President, there will always be improvements next year. Senator Carraro, allow me just one quote: I'm perfectly in line with what you said about the fact that two or three days to check and evaluate 1,417 pages of DEF are actually very few, but I can tell you that at least we didn't waste time and maybe we'll spend Easter a little more serene, not having read a series of documents that would probably only make us angry. On the contrary, I must say thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, who has been here in this House: I greatly appreciated his report, not so much for its content but for its brevity; so he did not have to summarize the 1,417 pages of this brick of DEF and he did not even have to explain all the distortions it contains. The Group of the North League will present today a motion for a resolution to the DEF, which everyone knows is an act by which Parliament directs the Government: only God knows how much we would have wanted to direct this Government. It is a very serious and rigorous document, it must be taken into account, so serious and rigorous that the Euroburocrates really take it seriously, and the economic newspapers, economists and journalists themselves do the same. It is such a serious, timely and precise document, Mr President, that it needs maintenance during its course. We know what it is to do maintenance to a car: we are always faced with some surprise. In the middle of the year there will be a good review and it will also be very serious and rigorous, Mr President. Let's see how serious and rigorous the drafting of the DEF has been, reminding everyone that this Document is the framework that includes all the content of the country's economy. First I saw President Monti in the Senate. A few months ago, not in the Middle Ages, he predicted GDP growth in the DEF of 1.3%, a deficit of 1.8% and a debt of 129 percent of GDP - all completely wrong. With the President of the Letta Council, to whom I offer my personal greetings and best wishes for a good Easter, a few months after the forecast of the mountains we move to a growth reduced to 1.1 percent, a deficit of 2.5% and a debt of 133 percent: mistaken also these. To date, we come to the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi: the forecast for GDP growth is going to be 0.8%: 0.5% less. The professor's error, however, is macroscopic, or the predictions of this new unelected President of the Council are actually wrong. Yet, you hear, you hear, the recovery will be there and the accounts will improve, again from next year: from 2015, gradually, until 2018, with a GDP increase of 2.6%. So, be careful: there will be a corrective maneuver from 0.5 to 0.7%, with an estimated figure of about 11-12 billion, but not now, clearly; now there are Europeans. It will be after the elections; now there is the history of the 80 euros, which has put in fibrillation millions and millions of Italians, the one that clearly has the most effect, with tones, however, very low, and under trace it is silent on the same audience of taxpayers that perhaps will receive the 80 euros, but that are the same to which approximately 65 euros per month will be removed for deductions for dependent family members. If anyone is good at counting, 80 euros minus 65 euros is 15 euros, Mr President: a dry and succulent increase in income! The DEF predicts real GDP growth rates from now to 2018 that we were not used to even in the years when the President of the Council was Berlusconi: 1.5 percent average per annum; exports to 4.2 per cent; imports to 4%; investments to 3.2 per cent. These are data never seen before, not even in the pre-crisis period. In short, Mr President, the DEF is a serious matter, and the only serious thing in it is to correct the forecast of economic growth: it is wrong that, Mr President, everything else has gone wrong: it has been wrong about debt, employment, tax revenue and deficit. Mr President, just as I said earlier than the previous governments we were talking about, these forecasts certainly do not lay down in favour of the government. With our motion for a resolution, we call on the Government to negotiate a revision of the Treaties at European level, in particular with regard to the single currency and fiscal policies, including considering the opportunity to withdraw from the euro area, to account for the costs of the operation 'Mare nostrum' and also to anticipate and demand that they be shared with our European partners. We also call for a reduction in the tax wedge for a real revival of employment and the repeal of Article 24 of Decree-Law 201 of 2011, which created the social drama for over 400,000 exodati. Mr President, I would just like to make one point for those who follow our work from home, those who have a colf or a caregiver: these ladies will probably be entitled to 80 euros more per month, but let us know that those who anticipate them will be the family, the employer. So I wish them all a good Easter, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u50	I wish you well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u51	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u52	Mr President, this year, for the first time in history, the DEF introduces the intention to postpone the budget balance target to 2016, with the attached desire to ask the European Commission for authorisation to deviate from the policy objectives. In fact, this Government has notified the European Commission of a specific request for authorisation indicating the size and duration of the deviation, as well as a return plan that allows convergence towards the medium-term objective. I would remind you that the economic forecasts and developments on which the desire to deviate from the parameters imposed by the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union is based are all too optimistic and not easy to achieve. In view of the fact that the austerity measures taken in Italy, first by the Berlusconi Government and then by the Monti Government, which did not produce the positive effects hoped for, have increased the negative effects (they had as their aim the reduction of public expenditure and aimed to balance the budget, with the obvious consequence of further reducing national expenditure without significant results in terms of recovery and growth, as well as in reducing the ratio of debt to gross domestic product) and that they produced as a result a reduction in aggregate demand and, directly and indirectly, have weakened the purchasing power of workers (for example, reducing expenditure on public services, health and education), it is concluded that the bad performance of Italy is to be found in bad economic policies, in particular, relating to the non-protection of jobs. This position is, among other things, confirmed by a recent document produced by the European Commission dated 5 March 2014 which is entitled "Macroeconomic imbalances - Italy 2014". I would like to point out here that Articles 99 and 104 of the Treaty of Rome, establishing the European Economic Community (as amended by the Maastricht Treaty and the Lisbon Treaty), are implemented through the strengthening of policies for the supervision of public deficits and debts, as well as a particular type of infringement procedure. We know that if the country's deficit approaches the 3% ceiling of gross domestic product, the European Commission proposes a preventive warning (in short, a little bit of ears!) and that if, despite the recommendation, the State does not take sufficient corrective measures of its budgetary policy it will be subject to a sanction which takes the form of an unfruitful deposit to be converted into a fine after two years of persistence of the excessive deficit. One possibility for the state that knows how to pass the parameters is therefore to temporarily depart from the programmatic objective, establishing the purposes to which to allocate the available resources as a result of it and defining the plan of return to the programmatic objective. We're not in the 5 Star Movement! Renzi's choice opens a path that, instead of getting us out of the swamp, will make us swallow up from this! We therefore ask that the report annexed to the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance be withdrawn, re-presenting it only after the consent obtained by the European authorities, as required by law n. 243 of 2012 and supplementing it also with the data, currently missing, necessary for the purpose of compliance with article 6, paragraph 3, of the aforementioned law, or indicating exactly the measure and the duration of the deviation, the purposes to which to allocate the resources available as a result of the same and a precise plan of return to the programmatic objective, composing the duration to the gravity of the events. Therefore, Vice Minister, please invite your Premier to stop campaigning by promising and deceiving people, if he is not able to make real and necessary reforms for the economy of our country! Let him know that you don't do politics on the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u53	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u54	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, again this year comes the long-awaited Economic and Financial Document, which, in keeping with the alas only announced disposals, does not spare us the disappointment. It is also a beautiful programme, but it dances little, and certainly not alone, because this year we have also added the letter of justification for Europe. It will not be this DEF that will allow us the structural consolidation of public finances and pursue the objectives of employment, innovation, education and sustainability. Over the last five years we have seen a negative trend on all the main economic parameters: gross domestic product (reduction of 9%); household expenditure (less 7 per cent); public administration expenditure (less 3 per cent); reduction of investment (more than 26 per cent); import (less 16 per cent); export (less 5 per cent). We have unemployment around 13% and Italian families not only do not save any more but are struggling to reach the end of the month. Yet, just a few steps from us, at Palazzo Chigi, optimism reigns supreme: an increase in GDP of 0.8% for 2014, of 1.3% for 2015 and, for the period between 2016 and 2018, around 1.7%. Chapter health: in Rome it would be said 'n'na sòla'. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Much more would have been expected for the management of a health expenditure planned for 2014 of over 111 million euros, about 7-8 percent of GDP, which according to government estimates is expected to fall to 6.8% in 2018. Minister Lorenzin, at his inauguration, proclaimed the end of the linear cuts. Well, the linear cuts, if you don't want to define them that way, are there, but in my opinion they are certainly not on time and aimed at reducing waste. Social security costs should be distinguished from welfare costs, such as expenditure on the provision of care in the strictest sense from administrative costs. How can we not be puzzled about the impact of the ageing population on health expenditure, which is beyond logic? But no more announcements, let's get to the facts. Unique central purchasing all over Italy: the famous syringe must cost the same from Aosta to Pantelleria. Real and serious policy on the cost of staff: it is useless to block the possibility of hiring with anti turnover decrees or even to keep older people at work or to resort to rented work and talk about services, when it comes instead to actual work. Rapid updating and approval of the tariff nomenclator of prosthesis and nettles, with rational use of resources. When a patient dies, 90 percent of the time relatives cannot return the help to ASL because they often lack the competent office. It is absurd that investments to improve energy efficiency in budgetary liabilities should not be counted. Let's remember that in Rome we spend 10 times what they spend on heating in sanitary facilities in Munich. The DEF focuses on online health care to increase efficiency and sustainability of the National Health System. All right, cheer up the electronic recipe! Let's remember that computerizing the medical records means a billion savings per year. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u56	FUCKSIA (M5S). For the sake of complete information, I would remind you that Italy is eleventh in the ranking of IT expenditure per inhabitant relating to public and private health (19 euros versus a European average of 33). We publish the National Health Service to import patients from abroad and not export patients out. Do we want to forget about the ASLs? We talked a lot about blue cars: but the gray cars, those of the administrative and health managers of ASL? We have an excessive number of ASLs, an excessive number of apical managements, in the face of a health worker who, on the other hand, goes beyond his working hours, has no rest, and here too we are in a situation of infringement of the European directives. That is why we must distinguish between managers who perform health duties from those who perform administrative functions, which are too many. Medical and staff contracts have been on hold for five years, yet we continue to waste everything, even on dispensing drugs. We still don't have a single dose and there's a waste of everything. But among the many shortcomings... president. Conclude, please. FUCKSIA (M5S). ...I discover with amazement - and with this I conclude - the lack of a very important word: prevention. This word is completely missing. Perhaps because every euro spent on prevention saves ten in treatment? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Rationalizing resources in a health service means not only cutting but saving by preventing. Cutting the salaries, already blocked for five years, of health managers who every day fight against diseases and the wicked political choices of the waste of the usual known, pushes me to ask myself: to protect who goes this DEF? Of the usual known or citizens who will find themselves, as usual, increasingly lacking services at higher costs? I conclude by saying that politics must take a step back. Health should not be administered by an armchair. The Palaces of Democracy give only the lines of address and stop using the Health and Health Service as an ATM. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u57	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u58	Mr President, the fact that I am most impressed by the Government's document concerns investment expenditure which, according to the Economic and Financial Document, is reduced by 12%, thus reaching almost half of the same expenditure incurred in 2008 and thus implementing a further economic policy manoeuvre, which I would definitely call recessionary. I think it's definitely recessive, isn't it, President? If this Document of Economics and Finance had written it with its contents the 5 Star Movement, probably Senator Zanda would have defined it, rather than decidedly recessive, decidedly fascist. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Confindustria shows very clearly that the level of production in our country is still almost 24% lower and in some sectors it is more than a third compared to the pre-crisis peaks: again recession. Since 2007 some 91,000 Italian manufacturing companies have ceased their business. I have also found other things in this document: there are, in about 720 pages, those relating to the PNR, a policy that contains a summary - in my opinion - of simple declarations of intent, if not often empty titles, absolutely without context, even if full of print characters, and of decisions that I would say have been taken in the past, many of which have already been implemented, but as many never implemented. In all the policies that characterize the action of the government in the field in support of the enterprises (relaunch of the competitiveness of the industrial system, relaunch of the investments etc.) the PNR insists on the necessity of construction of the environmental conditions within which they can be born and develop viable enterprises and able to stand on the market. However, the document which we have examined does not specifically address the crisis in which certain sectors of our production system are located, and the same document does not clearly indicate the areas in which the most important investments are to be made. Just one of the cornerstones of the Italian economy, the export of Made in Italy, is in crisis; this is what the DEF says. In fact, exports of goods traditionally associated with Made in Italy productions have dropped dramatically; for example, the clothing, leather and footwear, textiles and furniture sectors have increased to -22 percent; still: rubber-plastic sector, food industry, but it is especially in the energy management sector that there are absolutely worse holes. A study by the Foundation for Sustainable Development states that the energy bill paid by Italian households and businesses is 18% higher than the European average. The same pay for natural gas from 24 to 35% more than the European average. This means about 300 euros a year more per family. What does the government tell us about this? President Renzi talks about a random proposal of -10% to small and medium-sized enterprises for the next period, forgetting absolutely the families. But -10% is an absolutely inconsistent indication, because we know that in our country we already have, free-at-frontier, prices on average 33% higher than the European average on the purchase of gas and other energy sources. This is not acceptable at all. President Renzi is campaigning on this. We would like him to make more facts and less words. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u59	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u60	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is the first economic and financial document of the new Government. We would have expected a document with more reliable financial contents and more responsive to reality, because on May 25 the world does not end: if the accounts are wrong, as I fear, a corrective manoeuvre will be needed immediately. The document of economy and finance was built on the assumption that Italian GDP will grow by 0.8% in 2014. If we take into account that GDP fell by 2.4 per cent in 2012 and by 1.9% in 2013, this is not plausible in our view. For the benefit of inventory, I would remind you that both the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission estimate Italian GDP growth in 2014 by 0.6 percent: if growth is only 0.6, instead of 0.8%, there will be 3 billion missing in the accounts. The DEF revises GDP growth downwards compared to last October's Draft Budget Document from 1.1 to 0.8 per cent, giving this decrease to the continuation of credit restrictions to the private sector. In December, you brought the IRES rate to banks from 27.5% to 36% and the down payment from 120 to 128.5% and now increase the tax on the Bank of Italy's re-evaluated shares held by banks from 12 to 26 percent, with a cost for the banking system of 1 billion. Will these measures increase or reduce the availability of credit for companies? The DEF estimates for 2014 a further fall in employment of 0.2 per cent compared to 2013. I remember that a million jobs have been lost since the beginning of the crisis. The unemployment rate would rise according to the Economy and Finance Document from 12.2% to 12.8%, but ISTAT has already noted that in February the unemployment rate is 13%. I will conclude, Mr Vice-Minister, by saying that in the DEF the public debt for 2014 is expected to be 2.079 billion, while three days ago the Bank of Italy announced that the ceiling of 2.107.2 billion was broken, a debt that you expected to reach in 2015. It is not enough: you announced the payment of public debt of 68 billion by July, and it is obvious that these payments will also bring out public debt. You expect interest, equal to 82 billion, to remain unchanged in 2013, 2014 and 2015, but if public debt increases, how can the cost of debt be the same as the previous year? These are just some of the elements that make this DEF feel completely unreliable. I hope that after the May elections we can come back to reflect on the real accounts of this country. For these reasons, my opinion on the proposed Economic and Financial Document is extremely critical. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u61	The debate is closed. The Presidency received three motions for resolutions concerning the Government's communications on the report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. Five motions for resolutions on the 2014 Economic and Financial Document were also received by the Presidency. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Luigi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u62	Mr President, there is not much to reply to, because the positions that emerged in the debate are the same that had already appeared very clear in the Budget Committee. However, I want to underline one aspect: in several interventions, also of the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, it has been emphasized - and Senator Comaroli (which is not part of the 5 Star Movement) has been very explicit in this regard - that this DEF perhaps does not address the fundamental problem of making our country system more competitive. Instead, I believe that this DEF, as I said at the beginning of my drafting, puts more than other Documents of the past in close correlation with the three essential elements, the three sections that make up the same DEF: public finance, the stability plan and the national reform plan. In fact, the country becomes more competitive if each of us does our part: if the government does it, if Parliament does it and if civil society does it. To be more competitive, we certainly need a reform plan. This DEF, of reforms, predicts several, perhaps even too many, and also indicates, for the first time, the times through which these must pass from theory to practical choices and directions. However, this must be achieved in compliance with budgetary discipline which remains a fundamental point, not only for the consolidation of public finances, but also for national and international credibility. Therefore, budgetary discipline and structural reforms in this DEF are an important and essential element in giving confidence to our people and to international markets and institutions. This will enable civil society, entrepreneurs and workers to play their part: entrepreneurs can be asked to return to investment, while workers and trade unions can solve the problem of greater productivity in order to give more competitiveness to our businesses. This seems to me to be the central point on which we have discussed, both in the Commission and in this House, and which this document, for the first time, tries to tackle organically. [[Applause from the PI Group and the Senators Russo and Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u63	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Bonfrisco.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u64	Mr President, the debate in this House has perhaps not been too broad for the timing, but it has certainly expressed its concern about a DEF that indicates many objectives, to support which, however, the financial cover does not appear certain and the expenditure commitments seem insufficient. It looks more like a dream book than a real DEF. I think that the debate that has taken place and the clarifications that have been put to the attention of the Government are sufficient to make my reply confirm the many concerns about the procedure and the content of this DEF.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u65	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled on the Government's communications, and to indicate which motion for a resolution, on the Economic and Financial Document, you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u66	Mr President, first of all, the Government thanks the rapporteurs, both majority and minority, for their comments and all those who have spoken in the debate. As has been reiterated, we all want growth, we want the return of the country on a path of growth or, at least, we all declare that we want it. Now, the conditions for success of the growth-oriented economic and fiscal policy strategy are, for the most part, three. The first, that the Italian political-constitutional system closes the gap of legitimacy, understood as capacity for representation, and effectiveness, understood as capacity to decide, that separates it from the political-constitutional system of the great European countries our partners in the euro area. The second condition is that the economic and fiscal policy stance prevailed in Europe in these silent years, going to attack symmetrically the macroeconomic imbalances that have been the basis of the euro area crisis. Starting from the fundamental one, in my opinion, that is the imbalance that sees in the same monetary area coexist countries with a gigantic trade and balance sheet surplus of the current account and countries that instead make mark a dramatic deficit, a dramatic deficit both on the commercial and the current account. The third condition is that economic and fiscal policy acquires temporal depth. If we continue to move in the very short term, we can adopt buffer measures that are desperately facing emergencies, but they do not affect the system of expectations. As Germany's example from the early 2000s to the end of the decade shows, only a long cycle of reformist government can halt and reverse the trend towards decline. Within the very short-term horizon, within the emergency horizon, there is no solution to the structural problems that our country presents. On the first condition it is important that the country, not the Government but the country, at this moment can count on an agreement for electoral and institutional reform that goes far beyond the majority that supports the Government. It is now a matter of implementing that agreement. On the second condition, that of the orientation of European policies, conditions are finally being created more favourable than those which characterized the phase that ended a few months ago. Firstly, the agreement now almost reached for the banking union, which is a huge step forward in relation to the previous situation. Secondly, the statements by the ECB and its President on the readiness to implement unconventional monetary policy measures to counter the risk of falling into a situation of permanent deflation. Thirdly, the first significant signs of a policy of support for domestic consumption that is developing in Germany, also following the new agreement for the great coalition. They are all elements on which Italy, not the Government, but Italy as a whole, can and must work, also using the imminent opportunity of the Italian Presidency. With regard to the request for deviation from the rate of improvement of structural debt, let us at least try to say the things as they are: what we are moving forward, and on which the Senate is called upon to rule, is a request for a limited but significant deviation from the rate of improvement of our structural debt compared to that provided for in the agreement. We are not denying the content of the agreement at all and we are presenting, together with the request, the minimally defined return plan that allows us to return to the path of improvement provided for in the agreements and now incorporated in our Constitutional Charter. This request shows that there is room for flexibility in the European context to improve the anti-cyclical nature of policies to be developed at that level. Finally, with regard to the temporal depth of economic and fiscal policy action, it seems to me that this is the essential core of the Economic and Financial Document that we have discussed today. Basically it provides immediate interventions (yes, immediate, like, for example, on the IRPEF and the IRAP), but consistent with the strategic objective, which has to do with the structural structure of the Italian economy, to be realized by 2017 (here is the depth of time), to reduce - be careful - the tax and contribution wedge on work and on the company, that is on the producers, to the dimension that that wedge has in the main European countries. By doing the average, we are distant: the tax and contribution wedge on work and business in Italy is 32 billion euros away each year from the average of the big European countries. The strategic objective behind the choice on the IRPEF and IRAP that we are fulfilling with this DEF and that we will achieve with the decree that will be approved, with regard to the IRPEF in particular, already in the Council of Ministers of tomorrow, is to reduce, in the medium term to 2017, the size of the tax wedge and contribution on labour, decidedly higher in Italy than in other European countries, to the average size of the large European countries. I see, among other things, having examined the motions for resolutions tabled, that this objective is also shared by other political formations which do not support the majority: the Northern League Group, for example, has made a clear statement on its strategic character. This intervention, immediate but consistent with a plan of profound transformation of the Italian economy, is financed by the revision of the expenditure; in turn this revision has in the multi-year character of its design, its design and its realization its fundamental characteristic. It is no coincidence that the Economic and Financial Document foresees that the revision of the expenditure must achieve in 2016 savings of 32 billion euros. Why 32 billion? This is the figure that is needed to guarantee now, not tomorrow, immediately, the plan of reduction of the tax wedge and contribution to the job, that we have announced and set as objective to 2017, noting for the purpose of the reduction of the public expenditure the fact that we get the resources to finance this intervention, that translates into a structural reduction of the revenues. The structural reduction in the tax burden on labour and business corresponds to a structural reduction in public expenditure, which in turn can achieve its objectives (32 billion in 2016) only if the very structure of public administration changes profoundly, because maintaining the current structure of public administration is not feasible. For this reason, the medium-long-term horizon of the intervention on expenditure in 2016, far from the sporadic and immediate nature of the intervention on the IRPEF that has been denounced here, is essential in order to make sense of the structural reduction plan of the tax and contributory wedge and to make sure that everyone perceives today's intervention as a credible first step in a direction that has strategic importance. Not only that, but this intervention is financed by the revision of the expenditure that can be carried out in the meantime, as it radically improves the performance of the public administration: we have three years to have a completely new public administration that costs less and is able to produce better results. Finally - I apologise, Mr President, if I have been a little longer - I would like to make a comment on the political sense of the request for authorisation of slight deviation from the rate of improvement of structural debt which the Minister for Economic Affairs formally put forward this morning. I just want to point out, in this regard, that the resolutions tabled (and I am going back to referring to the motion for a resolution tabled by the League) confirm that they are also shared by forces outside the majority of the Government. I have noted, in fact, positively, that the League is tabling a motion for a resolution which, in its motivations, does not of course find the Government's consent (in fact, it finds a radical dissent) but in its disposition authorizes the Government to carry out what is provided for in the report. Therefore, it means that the request contained in the report is shared not only by the forces of the majority but also by forces outside the same majority. This request shows, Mr President, that obviously the new constitutional rule (let us stop talking only about European constraints, because the objective that binds us to the systematic improvement of the structural balance of the budget we have written in the Italian Republican Constitution) is less rigid and less stupid than it was defined at the time when we introduced it into our budgetary system. That rule offers spaces for anti-cyclical policies. The government's choice is clear. We think that those spaces should be used, because the situation in which we find ourselves is exceptional and therefore deserves an exceptional response, firm the return plan that we immediately present and that we will respect in the coming years, where we will have to recover the deviation to which we in this year will give life, not with respect to the objective, but with respect to the rhythm of approximation of the objective. It's not exactly the same thing. With regard to the motions for resolutions, the Government accepts motion for resolution No 2 on the Government's communications, and motion for a resolution No 100, on the DEF, both tabled by the majority group leaders. On motion for a resolution No 1, on the Government communications submitted by the North League, as I have already said, the Government welcomes and approves the proposal, which is identical to that of the majority motion for a resolution, but cannot agree with the premise and, therefore, expresses the opposite view. Of course, as far as the other motions for resolutions on the DEF are concerned, pending any examination of the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution on which the Government has given its assent, I am opposed to the contradiction that inexorably separates these other motions for resolutions from that of the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u67	The Government has accepted the motion for a resolution No 100 on the Economic and Financial Document tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. It therefore takes 30 minutes to table any amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u70	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the document on economics and finance we are debating today is a realistic document, characterised by estimates of the growth of the prudential economy and in line with those of the main forecasting institutions. With this document we go beyond the old tradition of the DEFs that told scenarios often overly optimistic, excessive growth rates and deficits punctually underestimated. A practice, that, which had strongly compromised the credibility of our country in the European and international context. With this DEF, however, we strictly stick to the 2.6% deficit on GDP in 2014 and to a growth of the economy limated downwards to 0.8%. This document is also new in form, because it combines stability programme and public finance analysis with the national reform plan. In fact, the national reform plan is the real lintel of the government's action. It is the reforms that will allow us to emerge from the harshest recession since the post-war period, and that will support the fragile economy and the difficult situation on the labour market. It is still the reforms that will allow us to bring about a change in the cooperative rules in Europe. The government, in fact, asks Parliament, first, and then Europe, to postpone the balance of the budget from 2014 to 2016: it asks it because of the reforms planned and because of the low growth of our economy. The DEF also envisages major structural and permanent spending cuts, which are confirmed at 5 billion in 2014, up to a total of 32 billion in 2016. Another important chapter is the confirmation of privatisation. In fact, they are previewed collections from public cessions for 12 billion per year, beginning from 2014. All this does not mean that there are no problems, that everything is fine and much less that it is the best document possible. Italy is in many ways devastated. From 2007 to 2013, GDP fell overall by 8.7 per cent; household income decreased by 10.4%; consumption by 7.6 per cent and investment by 27.6 per cent. The crisis has destroyed 802,000 jobs and brought unemployment to a ceiling of 12.2%, which is the highest post-war level. In order to restart growth it is therefore necessary to act yes on enterprises, with particular attention, however, also to the income of the families, in particular that of the large families, that they have seen reduced their ability to purchase, with consequent increase of poverty and inequality. The studies of the Bank of Italy, the OECD and the Monetary Fund indicate, in fact, that Italy is among the countries that show the greatest inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth and the least intergenerational mobility. The improvement of the Italian economy therefore remains closely linked to the improvement of the living conditions of its inhabitants and this can only happen by respecting budgetary discipline, gaining credibility and real reforms. The DEF represents an important step towards this change of direction. In conclusion, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Marino, for the punctuality and depth of his reflection on a document that is certainly full-bodied both for quantity and - I could say - also for quality. By stating that the Per l'Italia Group shares the policy lines outlined by the Government in the Economic and Financial Document, I declare, on behalf of my Group, a favourable vote. [[Applause from the PI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u73	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I rise to declare the Citizen's Choice Group's vote for Italy's motion for a resolution approving the DEF. A DEF that we believe marks the beginning of a hope, because it shows a light at the end of the tunnel: a very dark tunnel, which has made our country experience the most terrible crisis since the post-war period, with a loss of internal product, wealth, occupation, but above all of hope in the future. I believe that the thrust that this Government is trying to impress on the economy and our society has above all this positive element: to reverse expectations, to give back the desire of companies to invest, to give back will to the most talented young people in our country, who have studied and on which our society has invested in terms of training, to build their future here and to spend their intelligence and creativity here. In fact, the loss in terms of brains that we have suffered in recent years is among the most serious and among those that undermine the capacity of accumulation of the country system. We also vote in favour of this DEF because we believe it to be a serious document: it combines hope, seriousness and credibility. This document, in fact, assumes as its own the estimates that international bodies give for the economy of our country, indicating those that are the desired effects of the reforms, without amplifying them and incorporating them in the tendencies. This means that the reform plan, to which the objective of economic growth is closely associated, is another important element: to make reforms, as has been the case in the past for other major countries (we remember Germany in the 2000s), is the lever for growth, and with this to make the political system responsible for reforms, because only in this way will they ensure a perspective and a future for our country. We therefore, without focusing at this stage on the macro-economic elements that are articulated in a ponderous document, consider the plan that is expected of Parliament for the coming months to be very important, starting from the first commitment that will be fulfilled by the Government and Parliament, within the framework of the new system of macro-economic constraints that will now be voted on with an update of the structural budget data. The decision that we are called upon to take today, by applying the procedure laid down in the constitutional law that has innovated, in the implementation of fiscal compact, the system of budgetary decisions, I believe signals as unfounded the criticism of that law: that is, a suffocating and too rigid system, in the face of a need for flexibility of macroeconomic decisions. Today, on the contrary, we see that, although on the basis of discipline and monitoring with the European Union, we can recover margins of flexibility within the cornerstones of the stability of our public accounts. Therefore, I believe that this test shows that this is an operation that combines stability of public accounts, budgetary discipline and flexibility of economic policy decisions. That is why we will also be voting in favour of the change in forecast data on the structural budget, noting that the media scandal is completely unfounded. Those who had read the DEF would have seen that it was announced within that Document and, therefore, it is really - as the Minister of Economy said - a storm in a glass of water. I believe that the capacity of the Government and its majority will be measured in the coming months on the implementation of that reform plan to which we would say challenged to achieve the growth objectives: constitutional reforms announced, on which we will have to translate the announcements into decisions, but also deep engraving of the organization of the state. We heard the announcement that was made on the spending review. We have also heard the Prime Minister's announcements about the measure to be adopted tomorrow and that he should include, for financial cover, a general shearing - as it were - of the remuneration of the senior managers of the public administration and the enlarged public sector. It is certainly a measure of morality and sobriety, but we must know that the competitiveness of the country system and the budgetary results are measured not on those operations, which are important but symbolic, but on the ability to go not with the scalpel, but with the acceptance on the organization of the public administration. From this point of view, then, I call on the Government to accentuate certain points that I have only seen caught up in the Document: first, the issue of liberalisations, because liberalization means giving efficiency to the whole system of public services or public services managed by state, regional and local actors that are now to be measured on the market. We must proceed with the machete to the elimination of all that plethora of societies that absorbs like a hydrovora public resources and that will now be no longer sustainable. The accounts of those companies will have to be consolidated in the public budgets according to the new budgetary rules: because they will weigh down both the deficit and the debt, we need an operation not only of transparency but also of reduction. That is why I call on and urge the Government to do something which - in my opinion - has not yet been done in its own right and interpreted with a medium-term vision. I am referring to the digital transformation of the public system, which means transparency. The fight against corruption, in fact, is certainly done with anti-corruption authority and with good magistrates, but it is done first of all with the prevention of corruption, through mechanisms of efficiency and transparency. Moreover, only the implementation of an administration capable of moving into the digital age will reduce costs. Therefore, we expect an industrial plan of the public administration, which will show us how it will be restructured, in the context of the economy 2.0, and how the redundancies, which will result from this process, will be used in the coming years. We therefore believe that this policy framework, which, I repeat, guarantees stability of the accounts, discipline and courageous reforms, must soon be transformed into initiatives, on which the majority demonstrate that they are able to meet the challenge of the future and to give the country a hope, made of concrete things, translating this hope in support of an economy that is recovering. I believe that our business system, which is the only one that has been in place in recent years, keeping the balance of payments positive and our GDP high, thanks to the export system, will have to be supported by measures for competitiveness and a reduction in the tax burden, which we know, however, once again, will only be achieved in the face of reforms. So, well the DEF and well work in this direction. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u76	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to show the document to the cameras, for the television archive or for direct streaming. This is the DEF: 1,500 pages, for a weight of about two kilos. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The pages are 1,417: it has been said several times. FERRARA Mario (GAL). The price is 72.40 euros: since about 5,000 copies have been printed, to the eye and cross are almost 500,000 euros. In the time of spending review, this is the consideration of two top managers or about ten parliamentarians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna]] We could have saved a little, partly because it was signed by the President-in-Office of the Council on 9 April and arrived in the Senate on 11 April in the afternoon. It was printed last Monday and was made available on Tuesday: let's say that we had two days to read it, comment and discuss it, being today required, by the majority, to vote and approve it. (at 12.42 p.m.) (Ferrara Mario followed). Why do I say that? Mr President, what today is the DEF, I used to be called DPEF, then we thought of changing the acronym, even if we did not give journalists, parliamentarians and commentators the opportunity to call it "Promises and fairy tales." Of the promises today the only President of the Council has copyright and the letter "P" has disappeared from the acronym. As for the letter "F', then the fairy tales, they have remained and are all in this beautiful "Matthon'. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In order to be able to speak of fairy tales, however, it is necessary that there is the context, and therefore the enchanted forest and the fabulous garden. So, in order to forget the reality, made of fatigue, sweat and rules, the Government has tried to forget that to make a DEF there is the law of accounting, and the law of constitutional reform n. 243 of 2012. This is true even if the Minister has conducted the discussion with some caution, indeed with some modesty, so much so that the Minister does not sign the DEF. As an authoritative member of our Group said, Professor Tremonti, many times, especially in Parliament, form is substance. It is not enough simply to say: "I agree." If only that could be said, it would be enough for the Minister of Justice to say that he shares it, in order to ensure that at the bottom of the laws the signature of the Minister of Justice may not be signed. Therefore, to say "I agree" to us is not enough, as it is not enough that the Government, in the person of its representative for the economy, to a specific question made by President Boccia and myself, at the moment when it was asked if paragraph 3 of article 6 of law n. 243 of 2012, has - with caution? With modesty? - answered in terms that in reality, if we were in an Anglo-Saxon country, they would make us say that he lied to Congress, because on a specific question, when we asked him if he had heard the European bodies, he said that he informed them that having informed them was the same thing as having heard them. However, the next day it was denied by the President-in-Office of the Council, by himself and by all of us at the time when we heard from him that the following morning, on Thursday mornings compared to Wednesday evening, he sent this request: so this information had not been there. Previously, only the DEF had been sent and not the specific request for authorisation. Not even this morning in this House - out of shame? For lack of knowledge? - requested permission, and Deputy Minister Morando considered it appropriate, in his reply, to say that the Minister requested authorisation. But the minister didn't ask for permission. The Minister said that in the light of these considerations, the Government considers that macroeconomic and financial conditions require consideration of the profile of the approach. But this is not a specific request under paragraph 3 of Article 6 of Law 243 of 2012: but a little respect for Congress - blessed God! - do we want to have him in this House? [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Or do we have to keep making fun of ourselves and building the fairy tale garden? Because the garden of fairy tales the government continues to build it when, when it talks about coverage in its press conference for the presentation of the DEF, it continues to say that the money is there. But let's do some math. I understand that when it comes to economic measures, the use of numbers is poorly communicated, but the accounts have to be made. The President of the Council says we have 6.7 billion, of which 4.5 billion will come from the spending review and 2.2 from the VAT that we will recover for the payment of debts of the public administration. Apart from the fact that the construction of the enchanted wood continues, because the law of accounting is forgotten because against a permanent expense such as that which he at the press conference says he wants to implement, that is the cut of the IRPEF, there must be a permanent coverage, and the collection of VAT is a one-off measure and indeed, as he says - I quote again - Professor Tremonti, more than a one-off seems to me a "pocum" and, in addition to the "pocum" of the 2.2 billion VAT, adds the 6.7 billion spending review. But the accounting law always says that the coverage must be not only for competence, but also for the cash register, that is, it must be covered. But the Bank of Italy has come to tell us that the requirements are not covered, that there is no cash. So, how do we do the cover? Simply forgetting that the accounting law exists: let us forget the accounting law, let us forget the constitutional dictation and let us continue to tell the fairy tales and make promises. What's the promise? To solve everything by giving 80 euros, which are no longer 80 euros but 60 for the recipients of a salary ranging from 1,200 euros to 1,500 euros, while for those who take less than 1,200 euros, since we had already made the no tax area, there will be 80 euros, but 50 euros. Therefore, at this point the promise is not kept, as is not even kept the deadline, because they are racing to the government on the DEF and whatever else to issue the decree tomorrow. Yet, at the press conference, the President of the Council had talked about the end of 17, but he was confused; perhaps he mistransmitted: instead of "Rischiatutto" he had to go to "Amateurs in the Mistake" because he always confuses DEF with measures. The laws must first be signed and then sent to Parliament; it is not enough to make a document like the DEF to say that the IRPEF is cut, that is not enough. There must be a cover, the signature of the relevant ministers and also the signature of the Head of State and that, in our case, we do not take two slaps in the face of the European Community. At this point promises are made with these 6,7 billion but, about the 6,7 billion, let's make two reckonings. If the government says it needs 13 more billion euros to pay part of the 40 related to the promise made in the past by the government Monti means that it needs 13 billion euros. However, it is said that the 13 billion does not affect because they go to the public debt. What are we gonna do? Let's take the 6.7 billion of the spending review and a VAT pocum and use it to cover the needs resulting from the IRPEF cut. Adding up €6.7 billion and €13 billion is an increase in public debt of €20 billion. So, what are we building? We are building a disproportionate increase in public debt (perhaps the government has not noticed and has not corrected what the Ministry's technicians have included in the DEF) to achieve a 0.1% improvement in GDP. So much for the investment! We spend EUR 7 billion, or 0.3% of GDP, on achieving a 0.1% improvement. What are we gonna do at this point? We give little money to those who already have the job instead of creating the job for those who do not have the job. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Madam President, there is no live television. Give me a few more minutes. Among other things, there is a precedent in this respect. Did you know that President Merzagora, when he spoke with his arms and didn't read, refused to use the hourglass? Besides Merzagora, Terracini did.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u77	It was a different time, Senator. There was a more sober use of time. Anyway, keep going.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u78	FERRARA Mario (GAL). It would be good to go back. If the time allocated reduces us to talk about the DEF for only two hours, to comment 1,500 pages, it would be good to go back. Back to the previous reasoning, what's the fairy tale? The fairy tale is that Renzi says "we rise to the banks to give to the workers". But the workers, according to a survey (but the Government itself states this because the improvement of GDP considers it to be 0.1%), compared to these 80 euros before they have to become convinced to perceive them. Second survey: 30% of Italians will pay debts already contracted, 50% will not spend them, while the remaining 20% will spend them. At this point 80% of the maneuver is returned to the banks. So much for the measure! We'll get the banks to give them back to the banks! We raise everyone, we still produce an increase in public debt for everyone to give only to a few. At this point it is really a document of fairy tales, not a programmatic document. In fact, neither fairy tales nor program: it is a fraud, and we do not vote for it! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u81	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the expectations that the presentation of this document has given rise to are largely confirmed by the text on our examination. As pointed out this morning by the Minister of the Padoan economy, three objectives are essentially pursued: to support the timid recovery that has occurred since the end of 2013, to acquire competitiveness and to continue to maintain a good discipline of the public accounts aimed at containing the burdens for the public debt. In fact, the interventions and measures envisaged are, in our opinion, consistent because if implemented in the right times and ways, they will give shape to the will and commitment of the Government to give a strong acceleration to the process of structural reform of the economy that is aimed, in particular, to the reduction of the tax on employees, to the gradual reduction of the IRAP for the enterprises, to the greater equity of the tax system, and to the simplification of the compliances through the implementation of the fiscal delegation. The urgency and ambition of the reform action are clearly legible. The fundamental transition of the state of crisis management to a clear desire for policy change is emerging, as we are aware that increasing credibility is essential at this stage. It represents, in a globalised world, as we have had the opportunity to assess in the Budget Committee and as the majority rapporteur said this morning, a heritage which can only be relied on if it is consistent with the commitments made and the announcements. Therefore, it will be essential to assume the responsibility of Parliament, that is to say of each of us in dealing with and implementing the ambitious programme contained in the formula used, including in the text at our examination, for the change of course. We very much appreciate the indication of commitments with their implementation deadlines. The roadmap set out in the document sees, within December 2014 (within a few months therefore), the approval by the Council of Ministers of important measures among which those on welfare, those in support of motherhood, those that foresee the reduction and simplification of the recourses to administrative justice - that often block, thanks to the professionals of the recourse, resources already committed by the local authorities - to the investments on human capital, to those aimed at the reduction of the cost of energy, to the operations aimed at facilitating the return of the capital, to those directed to increase the funds of ulterior 13 billion destined to the payment of the debts of the public administrations. On this subject, we also welcome the commitment to regulate payments themselves with a new system in order to meet the deadlines and prevent the accumulation of arrears. However, we are aware that parliamentary approval times, with the exception of the use of decree-laws, are often quite long. In addition, the effective implementation of the reforms must be accompanied by systematic monitoring of the implementation of ministerial decrees and subsequent acts which make the measures operational. We also hope that the administrative and bureaucratic burden on businesses and citizens will be reduced and that unnecessary increases in the implementation of the European directives will be avoided. There are examples, even recent ones, from which we simply ask to copy, as other countries of the Union do. Only in this way can institutions accompany and support citizens and businesses who often face, in solitude, the slow and cumbersome public apparatus. On the other hand, it is the government's merit to have called into question the provision on electoral reform which, together with constitutional and institutional reforms, represents an attempt to reconcile citizens with politics and restore the relationship of trust in the institutions and the international credibility, which I mentioned at the beginning. On the subject of institutional reforms we want to draw the attention of the Government to the sensitive issue of the division of competences between the State and the Regions and how these must be well studied in order not to weaken the territories. We believe that the system of self-government must be strengthened and not diminished because we believe - and the history of our country has shown us several times - that this often triggers a virtuous circle of responsibility and good administration. And as I had the opportunity to say directly to President Renzi on the occasion of the vote of confidence in his Government, we believe in a virtuous pact between the territories and the central state. Returning to the most macroeconomic elements, we believe that the space of maneuvering of the accounts remains unfortunately rather limited and the cover for development interventions must be found through two areas of action: a more stringent action of contrast to evasion and tax avoidance, still too high in our country, and an energetic, but real action of interventions, such as those provided by a selective revision of the expenditure where it will have to pay only those who are inefficient avoiding further recessive effects. It is true that in the first case, the fight against evasion, the so-called raids are an instrument, but not the one structurally more effective, while the hypothesis of a system entrusted to the new technologies could certainly give more results. It will be important to assess how much these interventions are capable of identifying so-called occult incomes, which are currently outside taxation, or how it is imagined to counter the heavy blackout resulting from the profits of organised crime infiltrated in some well-known areas. As I have already said in other forums, it will be essential for our country to make the most of the presidency of the European Union. Since next July, Italy will take over the presidency; I think it is our interest to ensure that the community, Europe, recovers its inspiring principles by adopting a policy aimed at growth and employment, our real emergency, which are the two objectives to which all the countries of the Union are concerned. I say this precisely because the malaise - and I say this on the eve of an important electoral competition - is not only of Italy towards the Union; it is also a malaise in countries that perhaps have the best economic fundamentals of ours. A very thorough analysis must therefore be made and the opportunity for the six-month Presidency will be crucial. We have already taken the stage of rigour; we must now make Europe grow in a balanced and supportive way, using all the existing flexibility spaces to make it possible, while keeping public finances in order, to relaunch public productive investment. We therefore agree with the Government's decision to strongly reaffirm the need for a breakthrough in economic policy in Europe, confirming the choice to use the flexibility clauses made available by the Stability and Growth Pact. For these reasons, the Group's vote for the Autonomous PSI will be in favour of majority resolution 100. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u84	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we believe that the Economic and Financial Document should be the most important document for a government, not least because it is planning the country's life for the next five years. The most important document, therefore, is the presence of the President of the Council: where is the President of the Council? Maybe that's the only promise he'll be able to keep. In fact, Renzi told us, the last time he passed, it will be the last time that a President of the Council will come to the Senate. He thought that he understood us for trust, but perhaps he meant that he really doesn't want to come to this House anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Reading this document, the only thing that is clear is that we are under the full protection of the European Union. In fact, today we should be voting for two votes, and the second is not to approve the document, but because the European Community wants an absolute majority of the two chambers in order to allow a government to break the balance of the budget. In fact, you have been able to do this kind of game: move and procrastinate the commitments you made for 2014 to 2016. However, dear Government, Deputy Minister Morando (I speak to you, but the President should be here), you cannot think of going on with games or clever. As far as the history of the 80 euros is concerned, if after all the times we have talked about the 80 euros you have given only the interests to those who belong to it, they would already be rich. My colleague, Senator Council, has already touched on this. We heard the announcement that, because the blanket is short and you pull it a little bit over there and a little bit over here, for colf and caregivers the 80 euros will be paid by the families that use these workers. But what was the operation? The cost has shifted, they have shunned the families to give them to some workers. And when will families be returned? Happy Easter, meanwhile, to families! Another shock announcement: sell an aircraft carrier. President Renzi thinks he's selling Garibaldi. I don't know if he thinks he's gonna put this on YouTube too; maybe even a buyer can pop up. However, President Renzi, it is one thing to sell some blue cars, which is also there (it's a bit demagogic, it's news; it certainly doesn't cash, indeed it's fresh), other is to sell a ship, an aircraft carrier. The ships normally either replace themselves or mean that they were useless even before. It is too delicate a field of defense to play on, also because defense means security of the country. To modernize ships and aircraft there are very long plans, they last ten to twenty years. We cannot therefore think of changing our minds every other day according to the requirements of the quota fund. What has to be changed is register, yes. The "Mare nostrum" programme predicts that our ships must be used to curb illegal landings and not even take them, as is the case today, on other shores to facilitate this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] After launching the spending review, emphasized the role of Cottarelli, the hunt for waste and so on, today - today - the government still sends mail, and out of bustometer, which costs 30% more, to whom? To professionals who collaborate with the State administration, who by law must be equipped with certified mail, therefore with communication at no cost. What the state administration is responsible for is € 4.65 per communication. The numbers you write should tell you something. If we look at consolidated GDP 2013, we notice that in the euro area (where we are) it is -0.4%, while the figure of the European Union at 28, i.e. including all countries that are not in the euro area, is +0.1%. The same is true of the 2014 forecast, where GDP in the EU 28 compared to the euro area is 0.3% higher. It means then that the poor Hungarians, the poor Czechs, the poor Poles, the Romanians, the Bulgarians, the Croatians, the Danes and the Lithuanians without euros may be better off than we are. And that's exactly what the data says. In fact, you certified it. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] What saves you, and that saves us, is the Italian miracle, that is, the myriad of small enterprises that despite the wrong currency, ours, too heavy, still manage, with difficulty, to export. In fact in the document of economy and finance is the only section that records a surplus of beyond 30 billion, that they are 2,2 points of GDP. Let's think if we had an adequate and competitive currency: this sector would be able to blow up the whole Italian economy, generating induced and relapses: the real new Italian miracle. If then the banks did their job, which would be to provide credit and not financial speculation (which is then what you write that is a limit to our exit) would be a nice help. Try to think of a reform to bring back the banking system what it was before: business banks and commercial banks and the latter limiting the employment to the collection at the customers. Today, banks receive money from the ECB at 0.7%, invest them in various government bonds, speculate 4-5 points and refuse credit to companies. And it is small businesses that suffer the most from this credit crunch, they are those that suffer the most from the crisis, but they also know how to overcome it because they are the most elastic, because when you earn less you start to work more and so they manage to move on. The big companies that you say you support and whose model you say you have to aim are and have always only been able to ask for subsidies and state aid and then, when things go a little better, privatise profits. The only useful intervention - I have here in front of a former Minister - at this moment would be to refinance the Tremonti-b, the only instrument to increase investment, to stimulate the modernization of companies and to consolidate them - already fragile - in their competitiveness, undermined on all fronts. You have a fortune that you almost don't deserve: the debt needs have dropped, for a number of cyclical elements. This saves you 4 billion a year. Well, don't throw them away like you did with those 2 billions to sign up for financial instruments to save the communist bank, ergo Monte dei Paschi di Siena! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The Italian semester should be used for another important reform: to revise the Stability Pact. Differentiate between virtuous and not virtuous entities and unlock those resources that are there and are firm to start something, at least the local economies. But let us get back to the point: the euro - we have certified it in our document - depresses our economy, it is too heavy and we need monetary sovereignty to return to growth. A great scam has been consumed on the purchasing power of the euro. You told us: why produce this item in Italy? We buy it from abroad that costs half, so we buy twice as much. Suddenly we all become rich because it doubles the purchasing power. And what happened? Time has been a gallant man and we have stopped producing, our companies are shutting down; the unemployed have increased; the State must intervene to subsidise the social sector; new money is needed; the withdrawal is increased and we have reached the situation in which we are today. Some of you continue to argue that you cannot get out of the euro. Who said that? Meanwhile, the only thing irreversible is death. But we see that death will be certain if it doesn't change things. The exit from a currency Italy has already experienced it in 1992. The forerunner of the euro was then called the EMS. We saw it hurt us. We went out and returned to our sovereignty. The lira of 30 percent flared up and those years marked...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u85	Divine Senator, you should finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u86	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm about to finish. I was saying, they scored the last economic boom in our country. He even decreased inflation and took off exports. Today, even seven Nobel laureates claim that the single currency cannot be good for different economies; that a single currency cannot be good for different taxation regimes (Italy has a 24% more than the European average); that a single currency cannot be good for different levels of indebtedness, which also involve different fiscal policies. History teaches us exactly that. We cannot therefore endorse this document, first of all because it does not touch the real core of the problem, second because even to want to be optimistic this will inexorably lead to the decline of the country judged by everyone in the world as the first for environmental, cultural, historical and artistic goods. It's all a big scam, so we can't vote for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u89	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the report by the President of ISTAT should be read in the chapter on poverty, because in those few sentences, in those two paragraphs there is the tragedy of this country; there is the tragedy of a country that does not come out of the condition of poverty, does not come out of the grip of the crisis, but remains there in a lasting way. Between 2011 and 2012, absolutely poor people go from 5.7 percent to 8 percent of the population. We are talking about people in absolute poverty! Percentages that correspond to about 1,725,000 families, which are mainly found in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which are mainly numerous, with three and more dependent families. But the devastating figure on poverty is relative poverty, which is 15.8% of the population. The relative poor are 10 million. These data cannot be transformed from a contribution of 80 euros for tax reduction... Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. No one ever thought that. URAS (Misto-SEL). ...to a relatively small part of our population. That's not what we call a structural measure. It's a propaganda measure. It's a pre-election measure. It's a small signal to try to inject confidence, but that's not what it takes. It is also supported by the CGIL, which is now one of the least listened unions (and I tell the comrades of the Democratic Party) because it is necessary to make an effort and listen to it when it says that even appreciating some signs that have been introduced by the Government, they are not sufficient. We have to make an investment plan, we have to introduce elements of real recovery of the economy, we have to create work and not wait for work to be created through favorable dynamics of the market, as if this capacity of the economy were a kind of god capable, alone, of promoting virtuous behaviors. It's not like that. At a stage like this, when private capital is mainly focused on itself in order to become rich, it is not oriented towards production, it is not made available and it is in its most selfish dimension, we must contribute with public capital, we must make public investments and we must put them in a combination that must be stimulated with private capital in order to promote a great investment plan, because things to do are there and must all be called to do them. Comrade Broglia, a Senator from Emilia who has taken great care of natural disasters and their effects - we Sardinians are trying to understand how we can obtain the public support needed to rebuild - reminds us that by now natural disasters are not an extraordinary event, but the norm: they arrive in November, sometimes even in spring, at least twice a year, and if for a year we do not have an earthquake, surely we have at least a couple of floods. The damage that floods cause is also the result of a deep breakdown of our territory, which is not the subject of any maintenance. And every year we must take part of the public budget and devote it to interventions aimed at remedying the damage that we should have prevented through a process of public investment (but not only public) destined for the maintenance of the territories. This is one of the many examples that can be made to try to make good use of public spending, which must be reviewed and should not be deleted. We must not feed the egoisms of the incomes that favour few and damage many, which hide certainly significant capital that can instead be usefully employed in the development of the economy and employment. We are not afraid of public debt, but we are afraid of something else: the risk of not being able to pay debts, which cannot be paid if this country continues to be compressed by a policy of austerity that condemns it, more than any other country in Europe, to a recession that is now intolerable. It is for this reason that we are preparing to give a technical vote of approval to the motion for a resolution No 2, which allows the deviation from the path of reduction of the indebitably structural, while voting against a document of economy and finance that is still very backward. To those who promote reforms at this stage, I say that the reforms, the true ones, are not the reduction of democratic spaces and the debate, they are not the reforms that prevent participation, that do not value the contribution of each citizen: they are exactly the opposite. It is the reforms that make the country responsible and therefore allow and promote participation. We must think about them; for those reforms we are available. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u92	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Madam President, the New Centre Group will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions tabled by the majority and will then approve the Economic and Financial Document and will also approve the motion for a resolution, to be voted on by an absolute majority, which authorizes the Government to deviate from the process of reducing structural indebtedness. With regard to this last question, I would like to point out that the method of approval which we have chosen, i.e. the adoption of two separate resolutions and which are not implied, seems to me to be extremely appropriate. In fact, the Government has chosen a rigorous path of request for authorisation that could have led to an excess of rigour in the majorities required for the approval of the DEF. On the other hand, we believe that the Economic and Financial Document should be properly voted on by a simple majority and that only the authorization should be voted on by an absolute majority. We understand, therefore, and we are in favour of this distinction, in order to guarantee the necessary margins of flexibility for the Government and the necessary control by Parliament. I want to say at once that, overall, this DEF is characterized by a sufficiently reliable forecast framework. I would remind everyone that the most difficult element of forecast, on which the entire document of economy and finance is measured, is GDP growth in the year. At this moment, the growth forecasted by the DEF of 0.8% is supported by the consensus of the major international study centres and the major international control institutions, which speak of a GDP of +0.6 percent. This, of course, means that the maneuvers that the Government is about to approve tend more and more to a growth and therefore to an improvement of the general conditions of the country. This is the political effort that can be seen in this document of economy and finance, which will have to find in the decrees of implementation its fulfilment. This is the sense that the majority, by approving the DEF, intends to give the political path that the Government is about to face and propose to Parliament. The second question of public finance that concerns me and which has been particularly addressed in the debate in the Commission, also by the Government and Deputy Minister Morando, is the question of the structural nature of the measures that we are going to approve. We know that and the rapporteur has also said it well: if we were to limit ourselves to one-off measures, the effect would certainly not be that expected. Therefore, we must think that the framework of measure that will be taken in a few days' time will then have to find a context of structurality in order to be able to continue this stimulus to demand over the years, which is considered important because it is one of the two essential components of the recession that has hit the country: a serious reduction in domestic demand. The incentive measures are designed to act on this side, and for these measures to be effective they must be structural over time. It will be the government's job, of course, to also find structural cover; and if, as the Minister has said, it is considered transitional 2014, the majority is well aware of this, but it expects these measures to be structural in nature and will cooperate to make them so. We know that this depends very much on the measures of the spending review that are expected by the majority and the government, but we also know that particular attention must be paid, especially because the maneuver has immediate cash effects and therefore, in a short time, we must also cover for cash the maneuvers that are being carried out. I say this because Europe's lens on this issue is, of course, a careful lens and we absolutely cannot fail to make this appointment. I want to say in this regard, concluding my speech on public finance, that the great element of reflection is that Italy today, from the point of view of the magnitudes of public finance, stands out in the belt of the most virtuous countries. There are no countries today that are expected to have a deficit of 2104, 2.4, 2.6 and perhaps even 2.8 percent as a trend element, and therefore below the figure of 3%. Above all, there is no country, except Germany, which like Italy has a primary surplus. The primary surplus, as you know, is fundamental to the aspect of debt, which is what particularly affects Italy. And today Italy is one of the two nations that have a primary surplus of some importance. These two dimensions of public finance give us, from this point of view, a certainly positive and virtuous profile. But (and on this I want to draw the attention of the Government) if, in this context of virtuosity, the Government is forced, however, due to structural debt, to make a modest (as has been said) deviation from the path or, better, a departure over time, one wonders why this happens. If the government is so virtuous in public finance, why does this happen? The request that I make and to which I draw the attention of the Government and Parliament is on this. It is quite clear that it is not by chance that all public finances are fractions, such as the deficit-to-GDP ratio and the debt-to-GDP ratio. Why are they fractions? The fact that they are fractions represents an advantage, because it is possible to act on the numerator and the denominator. If on the numerator, as we have said, we have particular elements of virtuosity, it is clear that on the denominator we have to intervene better, and the underlying magnitude of the denominator (I would say in a sense corresponding to the primary surplus as the underlying magnitude of public finance), that is, that of GDP, and therefore of the real economy, is the competitiveness of the country. Well, Italy's competitiveness is flat. Expressing myself in non-technical terms, I feel that public finance maneuvers are not able, at some point, to keep the country system together. So politics must be concerned about this; the majority and the opposition together must now be concerned about this. If GDP does not start to grow again, it is difficult that, with the only aggregate of finance, it is possible to make it. For GDP growth there are things that the public does: for example, the loosening of the tax wedge; for example, the reduction of IRAP; for example, the intervention on demand. But there are things that can only do that the real economy and the public can only intervene on this. Then political will counts here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very specific point. In order to breathe again competitiveness there is something that does not cost and that, therefore, the public can do well and on which, therefore, the political will must focus: I am referring to simplifications. Let me say one thing nicely, and then I start to close, Madam President. Lords of the Government, I ask you kindly: you no longer present me any draft laws or decrees-laws in whose title it says "simplifications" and which then contain 89 articles of additional norms! I'm asking you out of kindness. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Molinari and Sangalli]] If we infect the legislation, let's not simplify it. I hope that one day a measure will come and say this: with Article 1, heading "Simplification', that law is repealed and those articles are repealed, etc. Look, it would be serious and discerning. I would entrust the sector's parliamentary committees with the task of identifying junctions and giving them the medium term. There is no need for haste: I am an elderly man and the haste can sometimes make unfriendly jokes. Something can be done, not in a hurry, but well: one of these things is simplification. Let me turn to another aspect. I'm saying this to the government's attentive ears. I wish I couldn't hear the high-ranking bureaucrats say, These laws are subject to them. No, they do not suffer, the laws do not suffer: the administration applies the laws and the quality of the law makes it the legislator and responds to the beneficiaries, that is, the citizens. This sovereignty lies in Parliament, in the political bodies and, therefore, in the overall political will. These things would bring an extraordinary benefit to Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u93	You should finish, Senator Azzolini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u94	Mr Azzollini (NCD). I have finished, Madam President, and thank you if I have passed by a few minutes too, but allow me. This is the element that would complete the effort that the government is making right now. Therefore, with conviction we adhere to this approach of the majority, which is positive, but with the conviction to complete it. I'm really done, Madam President. There was a rule that was fine. I call you in English, and you'll excuse me if I don't speak it right: I think it was called "jobs act" (before you say it I did the exercises, Madam President). It was simple: I have the impression that it is getting complicated. Let's hope not. We will make a contribution to our majority. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Sangalli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u97	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, this year the DEF has been transformed from an indispensable programming document to an electoral instrument. We passed from Letta pretending to do to Renzi who pretends to do quickly and, despite the efforts and accounting artifices to show that everything is okay, emerges the photograph of a country that struggles to move forward and perseveres not to create any realistic condition for growth. Not only do we struggle to grow, but while GDP in Europe in 2014 will grow by 1.5%, which will rise to 2% in 2015, the situation is dramatic for Italy. In 2013, GDP, instead of growing, contracted by 1.9 percent, after a further 2.4% contraction recorded in 2012 and the future is still black, despite the favourable global economic situation. For Italy, the European Commission expects a GDP growth rate of 0.6%, less than all other European countries. Italy has lost 9 percentage points of gross domestic product since 2007 and this means that we have all become poorer. To be clear, I want to point out that every point of GDP lost is equivalent to 14 billion in real terms. So we multiply this by 9 and realize why we're a country on our knees. Renzi must pretend to be fast, therefore, like Monti and Letta, coffins with GDP growth rates. Evidently, his travel, first from Merkel and then to the European Council, has served very little: the rules of rigour at any cost have remained unchanged, they have not softened at all; on the contrary, they force him to pretend to make reforms, but above all to predict a growth rate of 0.8% for 2014. As has already been said, the growth that the Commission gives us, supported by the Monetary Fund, is 0.6 per cent. Indeed, some independent international bodies tell us that it will not exceed 0.5%. But we know: even if the accounts have to be brought back on paper, in order to justify themselves before the European Commission, and what better instrument than to continue bluffing? 0.2 percent difference means tampering with accounts for 3.2 billion in nominal terms. Our Parliament has been committed throughout 2013 to trying to recover about 4 billion to abolish the IMU. The DEF of Renzi reports that, between 2018 and the beginning of 2019, Italy will have recovered the 9 points of GDP lost during the crisis. You prefer to hide the truth from the Italians. It does not mean that, with the growth rates not disguised, 2007 GDP would be reached only in 2022; that per capita would return to the level of 2007 in 2025, as well as the unemployment rate. The public deficit will hardly go near zero, but will always be higher than indicated in the DEF and, above all, the debt-to-GDP ratio will be above 125 percent even after 2018. What I wonder, and the Movement wonders, is whether Italians (families, businesses, young people, women, the elderly) can wait until 2025 to return to the conditions of 2007. The tragic thing is that we ate an entire generation of Italians. We owe this to the unserious politics, the easy spending and those who subordinate the interest of the country to the realization of electoral ads that are paid at a high price, as well as the rules that impose on us the European Treaties. The fiscal compact, to which this DEF bends and responds to command, reserves us an unsustainable social, economic and financial perspective. The vicious path is always the same: the same one we have followed in recent years and that has choked the real economy. Renzi's miraculistic prospects, which include fake tax cuts and indeterminate spending cuts, are unworkable. The truth is that we will proceed with the usual linear cuts and above all with the sale, to the worst bidder, of the assets and public assets. The revenues expected from privatisation are 0.7% of GDP per year, which is 12 billion per year. Speculators call it an ambitious programme, which requires a rapid and decisive disengagement programme. The invitation is to sell as soon as possible: the appetites to satisfy are many. Other than the expected results of the fake reforms! After pressing the Italians, now we aim to sell off the public heritage. Then it is clear that the accumulated expenditure savings for 2014 and 2015, expected by the spending review, indicated as the maximum value achievable in 17 billion, would not be sufficient to achieve the objectives set by the DEF to finance the relief of the IRPEF and to avoid the increase of the revenues contained in the law of stability as a safeguard clause (which is worth 3 billion new taxes in 2015, 7 billion in 2016 and 10 billion in 2017 and that it represents between 26 and 62 percent of the greater tax revenues provided by the DEF between 2015 and 2018, as the Court of Auditors supports together with the 5 Star Movement). So, immediately after the election, the avalanche of taxes is already ready for the Italians. When the Movement denounced the cheating provided for in the safeguard clause, no one listened to us, but now the Court of Auditors does. Moreover, since the taxes never fail anyone, within the DEF, since Renzi has promised 80 euros to a audience of 10 million Italians (money that will clearly give themselves with one hand and then take off with two), it is already planned to remodulate the deductions per dependent spouse, but that will be done after the elections. Who knows why smoking is thrown into the eyes before the elections, the harmonization of deductions is done only after! But since we are talking about issues related to the structure of the tax system, would it not have been more reasonable to delegate it to the tax authorities? But deception is never reasonable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Renzi is willing to do anything to finance the election campaign: he made promises, but to a large extent he has already changed them; he promised to pay the entire debt of the public administrations, and instead here there are only 13 billion compared to almost 100. In order to recover consent and not to precipitate the situation, he is now requesting permission to use the procedure for exceptional events provided for in Article 6 of Law No 246 of 2012. In fact, Renzi left fast and nobody in Europe believed it. In addition to taking back everything he has promised, he is now trying to put a piece in it, asking us, in Parliament, for permission to depart from the policy objectives for the balance of the structural balance. The German-led Europe will allow the Premier to circumvent the rules: the electoral consensus of those who want the Europe of peoples and not the constraints is at risk. In fact, Italy is subject above all to three constraints: the first requires us to reduce our public debt exceeding 60% of GDP at an average rate of one twentieth a year: (one of the rules contained in the famous Six Pack); the second, that is, the deficit rule, requires us that the net debt of the public administration must not exceed 3% of GDP; the third was introduced by the famous fiscal compact and constitutes a further constraint on public finance balances: a limit of 0.5% of the ratio between structural debt, i.e. debt net of the economic cycle and one-off measures, and GDP. Our government, despite optimistic forecasts, says that due to its pre-election donations, in 2014 our structural deficit would stand at 0.6% of GDP, falling by 0.2 percentage points of GDP compared to 2013, instead of 0.5 percentage points, as required by the Stability Pact. In addition, the Commission requires that the aggregate of public expenditure, for countries which have not achieved the objectives of the medium-term structural balance, such as ours, should be reduced by an amount that guarantees a reduction in the structural budget balance by at least 0.5 percentage points each year. Again, for periods from 2014 to 2016, while the required reduction is 1.07% each year, Italy will reduce the rate of real expenditure growth by 0.64 percent in 2014, by 0.74 percent in 2015 and 0.41 percent in 2016. The 5 Star Movement does not fit us, because in its full responsibility, as it has worked throughout this year, it demands a serious and authoritative Government, that goes to Europe to free Italy from all these constraints. To free it, so that there is also a real fight against tax evasion. I refer to the resolutions of the PD: we are not in the fight against the evasion of small and medium-sized enterprises choked by the meter, but we want the fight against the evasion of organised crime, lobbying, gambling [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because we are good people who want to free the country. And the country will be released only if the debts of the public administration are paid, only by removing us from this European schizophrenia, only if we have a serious country, which will abolish public funding to the parties! PRESIDENT. - The debate is You should finish, Senator Lezzi. Mr Lezzi (M5S). On the other hand, electoral ads are made on the financing and you get 91 million euros every year! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That's how you lie to the Italians! We need to reduce the tax burden by 7-8 points to give oxygen to our country, because out there are the entrepreneurs who kill themselves and the employees who lose their jobs! It's not just us who get this kind of email! Don't smile, Deputy Minister, don't smile because you have full responsibility for what I'm telling you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Lezzi. Mr Lezzi (M5S). We too, ladies and gentlemen, remember this, are part of the institutions and, as such, responsibly, we are voting no! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u100	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mr Morando in particular, whom I thank for his speeches. I regret, however, to remind you, as we had the opportunity to say to you last night in the Commission, which did not convince us yesterday, in the Commission, and does not convince us today. We are even less impressed by the fact that we have been able to record, during this morning's debate and explanations of vote, that the Red Aid also arrives. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] What this Government is proposing cannot convince us or the Italians. The Commission's famous letter arrived last night, and I would like to be able to read it, because everyone knows that there is a letter, but perhaps few know exactly what its content is. And this is it. Dr. Marco Buti, Director-General of the Commission's Directorate for Economic and Financial Affairs, on behalf of and on behalf of Vice-President Kallas, writes: The European Commission takes note of the announced temporary deviation from the budgetary objectives and the delay to 2016 of achieving that medium-term objective. The Commission will assess the adjustment path towards the medium-term objective in the context of its evaluation of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme within the framework of the European Semester, to be published on 2 June. In the light of the answer given by the European Commission, in which, in fact, it is stressed that it will assess it itself, Parliament is now in a difficult position to assume responsibility for a financial policy capable of translating, as we have already said in our minority report, into a hypothetical infringement procedure, which would be proposed by the Commission to the European Council in accordance with the procedures laid down. We therefore see even more, Mr Vice-Minister, the need for the Government to assume a clear responsibility before Parliament, in order to allow each of us and the entire Assembly to take the necessary decisions with full knowledge of the facts. I am not here to repeat what my colleagues from various parliamentary groups have said about cutting the tax wedge or about the return of the spending review needed to support that cut. But I cannot fail to recall that in the Document, structural interventions in this area, after 2014, are supported by the returns resulting from the fight against tax evasion and erosion. It doesn't seem to me that the government has discovered such an extraordinary or unexplored source! I would remind you that, among other things, last year it gave only 300 million structurally. Moreover, as we have already mentioned in the debate in the Commission (to give just one example of those lower revenues due to excessive taxation), we have already recorded in this first quarter a reduction in excise duties on fuels of up to 150 million, which disappear from the hypothetical cover. In the same way, I cannot fail to point out that the choice made by the Government for the planned facilitation of employees (the low-income workers we want to support) may appear partial and will be partial (maybe a few subjects) and, above all, will be discriminatory compared to other categories of taxpayers: for example, those of self-employment or pensioners. A judgment that I do not think can be deleted from the announcement that you made, Deputy Minister Morando, of an intervention in favour of the so-called incapienti: are pensioners, the self-employed, perhaps less important? On the contrary, I believe that today's self-employment, without guarantees or certainties, faces the hardest and rawest part of this crisis. I do not believe that in its recovery strategy the Government can forget a significant segment of the national economy such as VAT matches, which works as much as and more than employee work, which is paying hard for this crisis and for which a lowering of the deduction on labour income would not only be a small incentive but a real breath of oxygen from the imminent poverty. In addition, the emphasis that the Government is giving to this fiscal stimulus seems to be countering with the effects that the Executive itself points to in its DEF. Here, the Government is a little more cautious, since, to the point of view, the effect on GDP of IRPEF deductions is limited: in the first two years that effect is worth less than half of the resources committed to defining those deductions. As far as revenue is concerned, it seems to me to be naive - to put it mildly - to consider how to automatically acquire more revenue such as, for example, VAT linked to the delay in payments by the public administration. The Court of Auditors has also been very clear on this point: those revenues are not certain and have, however, been one-off and not structural. It is no coincidence that the tax burden is expected to rise for the next two years (i.e. this DEF raises taxes for the next two years), while investment costs continue to decrease (a trend that strongly contrasts with the needs of structural interventions). What can I say? The Berlusconi Government was criticized when the capital expenditure (i.e. for investment) was reduced to 25% in government finance restraint manoeuvres: in this DEF it is reduced to 12%, half of those commitments! This is a situation which, instead of supporting growth, is a depressing factor. Nor can it count on the leverage of the payments of the famous debts of the public administration because, apart from the 60 billion euros to be unblocked immediately, as Renzi says (which in the meantime have become 13), it is still not clear what will be the mechanism that will really allow - I quote my colleague Sangalli - to quickly unblock those payments and not to be entangled in the handrails, in the maneuvers of the red tape. Without that growth, which is possible thanks to that liquidity graft, there is no and there will be no employment. This year's unemployment figure of 12.8%, rising compared to 2013, which is forecast to fall below 2% only at the end of the next four years, is likely to remain a fixed and dramatic figure. Another fact on which to reflect is that of debt, as President Azzollini rightly said just now, whose sustainability is an essential priority for us. In the government programme, the reduction of its relationship with GDP is partly entrusted to the ambitious privatisation programme that foresees in four years, from 2014 to 2017, revenues of about 40 billion euros total. Nothing, however, is said - even in the timid mention of the rapporteur, whom I thank for his excellent work - of the new accounting rules that will make the public debt of the public administration part of many companies participated by the state and local authorities, as well as by all public bodies. A rather subtle question, given the importance of the number of such companies (if they count in Italy at least 7,000) and the value of these holdings, which would bring public debt to a significant amount which, according to various analyses, could be of the order of tens and tens of billions. That debt, further burdened by all this, will prevent us from really developing manoeuvres useful for the growth and economic recovery of our country. I therefore do not see anything new or good in this economic policy programme. A little redistribution and no real disruption of the intermediation, Madam President, of the public budget in the economy. No stimulus to growth on the supply side, only a timid hint at the reduction of the IRAP, also this futuristic and uncertain in the amount and the audience, which is considered substantially... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). ...ineffective, since its intervention on GDP is considered almost null until 2017. That is to say that until 2017 we at the companies will not give anything at all! We look forward to structural reforms, those concerning the institutions, simplification, first mentioned by President Azzollini. He made an example; I would like to remind him of another, just one in this House. President Azzollini, Commissioner Gabrielli remembers today about the Patatrac of disposal... PRESIDENT. You have to finish, Senator Bonfrisco. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). ...of the wreck of the ship Concordia, that the disposal will take place in Turkey because it is more convenient, President Azzollini, and also simpler from the bureaucratic point of view. And also because it costs 40 million dollars against the 200 million of the port of Civitavecchia. These are some of the many elements that lead us to vote against the majority resolution. The Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura for Berlusconi President votes against this DEF, this great tome, an optical illusion contained in all these pages (about 1,500) that the Italians will soon discover and with deep bitterness have been alone, precisely a great illusion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u103	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the document on economics and finance is in a moment of transition, from the most serious economic recession of the post-war period to a recovery of the economy still very fragile, but finally, after so many sacrifices, so much unemployment, so many restrictive manoeuvres (mandatory in previous years) with the positive sign. And then the Democratic Party positively considers that the Document of Economics and Finance explicitly sets itself the objective of strengthening this growth in 2014, to give it continuity in 2015 and subsequent years in order to finally bring it stable, within a short time, over 2%. Here it was a bit ironic - and I am sorry - about these predictions, judging them as imaginative, optimistic, fairy tales. It has forgotten to say that with realism and seriousness towards the country this DEF corrects the previous objective that was 1.1 percent and therefore takes responsibility for the difficulty, but to go beyond and overcome it. To this end - and this is the second reason why we will vote in favour - a strategy is being implemented, a strong project for the country. This too, I am sorry, has not been noticed by my colleagues who have spoken with mainly undervalued or preconceived criticism. How can we define, if not in this way, as a strong project, the objective of a structural reduction in the tax and contribution wedge for companies and workers, starting with the first two measures that will be launched tomorrow with regard to incomes of up to EUR 25,000, including the lowest incomes of the incapients, and the reduction of IRAP for companies? What, if not this, is the plan to remedy completely, finally, the shame of the late payment of public administration debts to companies, allocating additional resources so that by next autumn we can and, we add forcefully, we must complete this payment so late and that so much damage is being done to our country? [[Applause from the PD Group]] 13:56 p.m. (Saints follow). What, if not this, of a project created to create by politics and in favour of recovery, industrial policy, as well as services, tourism, agro-food of cultural goods, in short, of our productive sectors the conditions to be able to restart and play their future bet? But I would also like to point out that little reference has been made to the strategic choice, which has been claimed in other debates by the Groups that are criticizing it today, to a reduction in public expenditure, in order to finance the reduction of taxes with a thorough and rigorous revision of expenditure, especially from inefficiencies, waste and the many forms of overlap that exist. Why not say that it is courageous what the DEF proposes in terms of concrete objectives? 4.5 billion this year, 17 next year, 32 billion in 2015 cutting this inefficient public spending! Why not take on together the challenge of really doing it, of doing it in a fair, fair way, without cutting the essential services but cutting privileges, waste, doubles? Why not take on this goal together? [[Applause from the PD Group]] And what, if not a strong project, is that of institutional reforms to make it easier, as President Azzollini, our legislative and administrative apparatus, rightly asked, to make our democratic system more effective? I do not go into this, too, but it is a theme that will help the country to start again. Still, why not jointly support this project, which strongly relaunches investment in school construction, to combat hydrogeological failure, for the more effective and coherent use of European funds? If we add to the elements that I briefly referred to the labour market reform that is in progress, to the reform of the public administration which is a key element in this reform plan, I believe that then we can say that the objectives that the DEF measures, the objectives of the National Reform Plan are possible if everyone will play their part, if the Government engages in coherent implementation projects, if Parliament will be directly involved in proposing, monitoring, changing - if necessary - these guidelines. A final reflection on the subject of public finance and the return of the deficit: the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the resolution which provides for the possibility of extending the budget balance by one year; it will vote in favour firmly. It is very curious (I say this to my friends who have spoken and who generally attack the Democratic Party and the Government by subjection to Europe) that when, with courage, taking responsibility for doing so through structural reforms, the Italian Government uses procedures provided by the European Union in order to be able to flexible for a year and in any case within the time frame of the DEF the balance of the budget, this is judged critically, so in this case too preconception. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's look at it inside: it will help our country, if the country wants to make these reforms; it will give the opportunity to give more momentum to growth, if we want to make the passages that are contained here. We must point out very strongly that, together with this plan, we must demand, when we have the leadership of the European Semester, that Europe's policy can change, that Europe's policy, especially with regard to growth and investment, gold rules and co-financing of European funds, can be removed from the tight budgetary constraints, from which it has, unfortunately, been conditioned in recent years. In conclusion, in these weeks, they are so convulsive because they are marked by the fibrillation of the vote for the European elections, in which there are strong fears of the widening of anti-European populist symptoms that rely on a social discomfort that is very strong, but to which we must respond not promising things unrealizable and imaginative but seeking consistently, day by day, with policies to give a breath to growth, to give an answer to the topic of employment, to ensure then that finally we can offer solutions to this country, we believe that the DEF, which is put in the vote today, represents a political platform and government able to impress that necessary change for our country to return to growth and above all to have confidence in its own future. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote strongly in favour of the DEF and the resolution which provides for longer time to balance the budget. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Zeller. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u104	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions relating to the Government's communications on the report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place by electronic procedure by simultaneous ballot, in accordance with the order of presentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u107	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I listened very carefully to Mr Morando's speech, I treasured it and appreciated the openings to my motion for a resolution; having found his opposition to the part in premise of the motion and the sharing instead of the device, I expunge from the premise the words from "despite" until "2015". The text would then remain as follows: The Senate, after hearing the Government's communications, approves the aforementioned Report and authorizes the Government, pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3, of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243, to give timely implementation to the measures indicated in it. In view of the premise made in the Vice-Minister's speech, I would like to ask whether the opinion on this new text is favourable, as stated above. PRESIDENT. - The debate is What is the Government's view of this change?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Calderoli for listening to my reply and for accepting the implicit call in my speech to remove premises which, of course, would have made, at least from the government's point of view, certainly impossible to deliver a favourable opinion. The opinion is, however, of course, in favour of the provision, which is identical to that of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Heads of Group of the majority supporting the Government. At this point, if I may, before proceeding to the vote I would ask the majority leaders to remove the premises from Resolution No 2 in turn, leaving the words "heard today' from the Government's communications, and then only the disposition part, which is identical in the two motions for resolutions; in this way I believe that we will proceed with a single vote and that the Senate will be able to approve the Government's proposal with the very large majority required. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Casini.]] Sunta (SPI). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are the authors of motion for a resolution No 2 available to accept the proposal of Deputy Minister Morando?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk. Mr President, on behalf of the Group, I had asked for the floor immediately after Senator Calderoli, having clearly grasped his intention to limit the Government's opinion to the approval of the device, identical to that of the majority resolution. Since, of course, we agree with the Government's observation, and it was evident even before, in fact, that that would be the destination of the interventions, we modify our motion for a resolution in the first paragraph, writing, at this point, "hear the Government's communications", we expunge the second paragraph and leave unchanged the third, which is identical to that of Senator Calderoli (or better, I would say that that of Senator Calderoli is identical to that of the majority). It is clear that the intention is to approve the arrangement authorising the Government to make the change in the budget. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u111	Senator Calderoli, I don't think there's a dispute about which one is identical to the other: if they're identical, they're identical. Please have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u112	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, they are identical, but at this point I could also do mine the part that Senator Ghedini gave up. Not wanting to have this issue, identical for identical, it is clear that the first signature is Calderoli [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sonego.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u113	Senator Ghedini? Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, both are approved. I think it's a very peregrine dispute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u116	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, as a signatory to the motion for a majority resolution, I agree and above all to the substance: there is a broad consensus that is emerging, and that is what matters. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups and Deputy Minister Morando.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u117	Does the other presenters, all those who have signed, want to comment on the proposed amendment? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we agree. ROMANO (PI). Mr President, we agree too. Sunta (SPI). Of course we agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u120	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to point out to all the Groups and also to the Presidency that the motion for a resolution thus presented in the preamble does not comply with Article 6 (3) of Law No 243 of 2012, because in the premise it would be written: "listen to communications". But it is specifically provided for in paragraph 3 that those are not communications and that the Government is required to submit a report - contained in the DEF - as well as a specific request for authorisation. I would therefore suggest changing the premise as follows: "hearing the request for authorisation" because if it were not specified it would not be satisfied with the provisions and therefore the authorisation should not be deemed to be granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u121	This is a suggestion which may be acceptable to those who have tabled the motion for a resolution. If they do not intend to do so, we shall vote on the proposed text, because we have no competence to change it. But let's hear Senator Calderoli. (Senator Calderoli speaks to Senator Ferrara Mario.) Senator Calderoli?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u122	Mr President, I didn't mean to be rude to you, but I was trying to explain the change that should be included, because I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u123	Senator Ferrara, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u124	[[Comments from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u125	Good Friday is tomorrow. We're working today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u126	Senator Ferrara, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u127	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Paragraph 3 says the government... president. Paragraph 3 of what? FERRARA Mario (GAL). President, we have been talking about this since this morning! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is better if he repeats it, also because he has not been able to make himself understood. FERRARA Mario (GAL). The President-in-Office says he's studying a lot. I believe that this is an example for all of us: we also study. Paragraph 3 of Article 6 of Law 243 provides exactly what we are doing now: we are trying to vote, there are those who will do so in favour and those against, an authorisation to the Government to implement a procedure of derogation from what is laid down in the Constitution, that is, the achievement of a balanced budget. Paragraph 3 of Article 6 of Law 243 says that to do this the Government must ask Parliament for specific authorization. The authorization in this case is given... SUSTA (SCPI). He asked for it! FERRARA Mario (GAL). It does not appear to me that it has been asked: therefore, for the procedure to be perfect I cannot hear the communications. I have to hear from the government asking for my permission, and then I authorize it. If the Government makes a communication and I authorize it, it may have been given permission, but it is all Parliament's responsibility, whereas in these cases it would be good for the Government to decide once and for all to assume its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u128	Senator Ferrara, have you read the motion for a resolution? It says: "It approves the above-mentioned Report and authorizes the Government." FERRARA Mario (GAL). There's no request! [[Comments from the PD Group]] In my opinion, the request is contained in the Report. Anyway, he'll take care of the proposers... FERRARA Mario (GAL). In democracy, the form is substance. Then do what you want. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you intend to welcome...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u131	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, having to vote on an act of particular importance, since a text is presented in this skirmish, I would ask everyone, including Mr Calderoli, to consider my request. The text says: "It approves the above-mentioned Report." But it is not specified what this report is; it would then be better to write: "It approves the Report..." Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. This is not good, because it must be foretold. Mr Azzollini (NCD). ...as referred to in article 6, paragraph 3, presented in Section 1, Chapter III, of the DEF 2014 and authorizes the Government to give, etc., otherwise we do not understand what the aforementioned Report is. We must specify what the report is, and that is what was in the second point of the majority report, and that the specification is that presented by the Government in the DEF to Section 1, Chapter III, of the DEF 2014. I think that Mr Calderoli will also have to agree on this small amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Deputy Minister Morando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u132	Mr President, I would just like to make one point. I understand President Azzollini's remark, which further specifies what report we are talking about, but I would like to point out that the premise is: "Hear the Government's communications". This morning Minister Padoan made it clear in his communications that he was addressing Parliament to accept the request contained in the report contained in Chapter III. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario]] of the document of economy and finance and, consequently, authorized what the government had requested. In my opinion, therefore, the text, also in the original wording of Senator Calderoli, is precise - that is my opinion - and does not give rise to any misunderstandings. However, if you suggest that this is the most timely reference, i.e. a reference to Chapter III (I don't remember which section) of the Economic and Financial Document, which contains that report, I think we can also adopt that solution. But I would like to say that if we approved Senator Calderoli's text as it is, we would not have a precise reference to the report contained in the DEF, because this, in the communications we have heard, was very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u135	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Morando's speech anticipated me. It seems to me that the report to which we refer is the report that has been presented this morning in this House, so it seems to me to be absolutely supplementary and I would maintain the original text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ghedini, do you have any comments? [[Brusio]] Please, it's to be sure of what we vote for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u136	Mr President, I find Senator Azzollini's speech to be a useful clarification, even in lexical terms, on the subject of this report. At this point, however, we certainly refer to the report that Minister Padoan made this morning with reference to Article 6 (3) of Law No 243 of 2012.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u137	There was also the possibility that Senator Calderoli would play the part of the motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u138	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Ghedini. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). If we all agree, for the punctuality of the deliberation, to assume the reference of Senator Azzollini, since we are doing an important act, I believe that this reassures us on the content of what we are going to approve and on which we agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u139	Senator Calderoli, will you repeat this, please? The House must be sure of what it votes. Therefore:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Exactly. Reminding everyone that the premise of everything is: "Hear government communications". Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. He's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Communications containing the Report. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Exactly. Otherwise, we could also add to the full respect of the Constitution and the Charter of Human Rights, but it seems to me to be ultra-rheavy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u142	FERRARA Mario (GAL). The correction, as stated by President Calderoli, hear the Government's communications, is fine. To be precise, I had brought the report and had already read the statement, and I had pointed out to Deputy Minister Morando that the Government, in the person of Minister Padoan, had not made the request referred to in paragraph 3. But when we say that Vice-Minister Morando asked for it, we overcome that lack in what Minister Padoan said in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u143	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), which is identical to motion No 2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u146	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Since there has been some confusion, I would like to explain the position of the Group of Forza Italia, which will vote against, because, if anything, it shared the premises of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Calderoli, in particular the point where it is stressed that we are asking for more debt for non-structural measures and - I add - electoral measures. That is why our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group 17th roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u147	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli, identical to motion for resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We now proceed to the examination of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance n. 100, presented by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta, accepted by the Government. I would like to say that six amendments have been tabled to this motion for a resolution, the texts of which have already been distributed, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on page 23 of the Economic and Financial Document we find an area reserved for justice. In particular, the Document affirms a principle that, in truth, can only be shared by everyone, namely that a swift justice, accessible and that produces results of quality and reasonably predictable is a precondition for a good functioning of the economic system and for the resumption of productive investments also by foreign companies. If citizens and entrepreneurs have confidence in the timing and merit of the decisions of Italian justice, it will be possible to make considerable progress on the road to economic recovery. This is the correlation between the justice service and the economic recovery of the country. But when we move from proclamations to action, we read how the Government anticipates its understanding of intervening in the management of the civil and criminal process with quite significant changes. [[Brusio.]] I would like the attention of my colleagues, particularly the Senator citizens of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u149	Senator Falanga, you have little time, so take advantage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u150	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, a summary statement of reasons is anticipated, at the request of the parties, in defence of the judgment. In other words, it seems to me that it is the understanding of this Government to carry on the path that had already anticipated Minister Cancellieri: a citizen subject to a sentence will have to pay in order to obtain the motivation of the sentence. The second point concerns the appeal judgment: the court of the degree of collegiate appeal becomes monocratic, with a reduction, obviously questionable, of the guarantees of the citizen. Finally, again, there is talk of judicial geography, which has already entered into force following the Chancellors reform. In view, however, of the different arrangement of the courts' surroundings, the Government does not anticipate the need to possibly revisit the organic plan of the individual judicial offices. It then happens that the courts to which additional territories have been added, with a substantial increase in the catchment area, find themselves having to handle the demands of justice with the same number of magistrates. An example for all is that of the court of Nocera, which is attributed five municipalities but with the same number of magistrates, paralyzing justice. So, if it is true that justice is a necessary activity for the economic recovery of the country, I wonder how it is possible that no mention has been made in the motion for a resolution No 100 of the majority in this area. I simply ask, with amendment 100.1, to add the following commitment to the part of the motion for a resolution: not to insist on the introduction into the Italian system of a procedural institution, such as the justification at the request of civil decisions, which presents profiles of dubious constitutional legitimacy; to revise the hypothesis of changing the composition of the second-degree courts; to intervene on the geography of the judicial offices. It is an amendment that I believe can be accepted by the whole Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u151	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendments 100.2 and 100.3. The first calls, in the context of reducing taxation on labour, not to discriminate against self-employed workers and pensioners in reducing taxation. In fact, it has already occurred in recent years that a preferential formula for certain categories has been rejected by the Constitutional Court, with the result of having to clear that penalty (in that case operated on the state over the private). In this case too, we would probably go against the Constitution but certainly against all self-employed and all pensioners, even on a level playing field. Amendment 100.3 calls for a reduction in the tax burden over the next few years to be included as the main objective of the implementation of the tax delegation. We have asked here for at least one percentage point per year, but if the government thinks that it is proposing lower percentages we could accept them. Of course, we are very concerned to see that in one of the most important tables of this huge Document is expected, for the years starting from this, an increase in tax revenues, that is, taxes that come out of the pockets of the Italians, between 2.2 and 3 percent per year, until 2018. How can one think of breathing the economy in this way really escapes us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u152	Mr President, I shall briefly table two amendments. Amendment 100.4 points out (and proposes to include in the motion for a resolution a request to the Government to take this into account in the manoeuvres envisaged by the DEF) on the whole taxation of savings (which already exists under current legislation). It is asked not to forget this aspect so that, on the day that such assumptions are translated into economic decrees (probably the one that will have to reduce the pressure of the IRPEF on incomes from 8,000 to 25,000 euros), no further taxation of Italian savings is used as cover. The vocation to saving seems to give small signs of recovery that, in some cases, can be read positively or, on the part of others, negatively. The fact remains that this is one of the pillars of the solidity of our economy. We find it particularly risky, as well as wrong, to insist on the taxation of Italian savings, not only that already safeguarded of the holding of government bonds, but also that, more generally, that it should continue to guarantee that liquidity to the banks that then so much is invoked when the credit crunch is denounced from the front of the companies. I would also like to explain briefly Amendment 100.6 which, on the other hand, draws attention to the adoption of legislation on rentals for non-housing purposes relating to small-industrial activities. This rule stimulates competition, as well as greater flexibility, allowing operators of industrial, commercial and artisan activities of tourist interest, with reference, however, to norms of the civil code, as an alternative to the current legislation on rental. We have a serious real estate problem, which is annoying for many small owners, and therefore for the investments of our families, but also a very negative element on the micro or small business that constitutes - I want to remember from the point of view of numbers - 96% of Italian companies. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u155	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to add the signature to Amendment 100.5 and briefly explain it. Above all, I call on the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to reflect. This point of the DEF excludes a number of sectors from the cuts, rightly so. He says to intervene more carefully and preserves them: we talk about infrastructure and culture. We propose to extend this greater caution and protection to safety issues. I also say this out of consistency, Deputy Minister Morando, with the statements recently made by the same Government. A few days ago, in the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a hearing was held by the Minister of the Interior, Alfano, who announced a whole series of important measures (here in the Chamber, with us, Vice-Minister Bubbico): I unblock contracts, I reorder careers and a whole series of events that have the costs that must rightly be addressed for the world of security. This sector, among other things, is protected by the rules that sanction its specificity (this is a law that we approved in 2010). We know that the DEF is a programme from which no operational decisions arise, but we would also like security to be mentioned in this list of areas of particular attention to the risk of cuts. I say this also in line with the announcements made by the government here in the Senate days ago, which are all relevant and onerous. I think it is a mention that could be made and that should be dear to everyone's heart. Then, how and when the DEF will translate into concrete acts, we know well to be a whole other story. In any case, however, Deputy Minister Morando, we believe that the programmatic indication on security can be included, with the sharing of the House, among the areas to be protected from drastic interventions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u156	Mr President, the arguments put forward by the authors of the six amendments are certainly, apart from the terms used, very critical of the DEF. These are certainly important issues, but there is the attention of the Government and this majority (I think, for example, about pensions). These amendments, however, intervene on a majority motion for a resolution which, in its operative part, places at the first point the Government's commitment to observe the government's balance of public finances in terms of net debt relative to GDP. As these amendments are not irrelevant, they are, on the contrary, heavy in relation to public finance and would require a revision of those budget balances that we want with the motion for a resolution to be respected, the rapporteur takes the opposite view on all of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u157	Mr President, in addressing the Senate, I would like to make a very brief premise. The Government's opinion will be against all the amendments tabled to the majority motion for a resolution, depending on a position that I would like to try very quickly to argue. The document of economy and finance draws a path of public finance management, structural reforms and relationship with Europe regarding the modification of the fundamental orientation of the economic and fiscal policy of Europe, which - in our opinion - defines a stable balance that shifts the country, in the relationship also with the European context, along a line that we consider practicable. The motion for a majority resolution, approved by the DEF, from this point of view, certainly intervenes with some accentuations, but respects this balance, and that is the reason why the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on it. At a time when, with all due respect for every single amendment tabled - on which I will say something very quickly anyway - we were to approve this or that other amendment proposal, the Government's opinion is that the balance of the majority motion for a resolution in its relationship with the Economic and Financial Document would be altered. That is why the opinion is against all the amendments. In particular, on the first amendment, on the one relating to justice, I would like to ask the proposer to consider that it is difficult for the Government's opinion to be contrary, given that all the chapters of the text begin with "is unacceptable," "is not acceptable," "is serious," and so on. We think it is legitimate to think so, but the proposer will allow us to say that it is also legitimate to say that we do not agree. On Amendment 100.2 the opinion is opposed, for the general reason that I have already explained. Specifically, however, we are not discriminating against anyone. I have dedicated my reply to the search - not convincing, for goodness sake, Senator Bonfrisco, and I understand that well, but this is the government's position - to demonstrate that the intervention on the IRPEF in favour of employees and on the IRAP in respect of companies, which, as a whole, draw an intervention to reduce the tax burden on labour and on the company of more than 10 billion euros, is a first step in the direction of reducing the tax wedge contributory on labour and on the enterprise to the average European dimension. That is why we are not discriminating against the self-employed or other workers: we are pursuing an economic policy plan which has this content and which will continue to take place in the coming years. With regard to amendment 100.3, we believe that the constraint, ceteris paribus, i.e. leaving all other figures of public finance unchanged, to reduce by one point the need for [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Petrocelli and Repetti urge Deputy Minister Morando, with applause, to finish the speech]] Colleagues, if amendments are tabled, twenty years of this House have taught me that the government must also give opinions on the subject. I understand you're in a hurry, but I'll be very soon and give these opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u158	Go ahead, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u159	Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. On Amendment 100.4 the opinion is also against the substance, as well as for the general reason that I have already explained. To harmonize the levy on the tax base is certainly necessary, and it must be done with a general design that the Government will certainly deal with in the coming months, but in the DEF we specifically announced and confirmed our choice of rebalancing between reduction of IRAP and increase of the levy rate on one part - not on everything, Senator Malan - of capital gain. With this choice, we want to be consistent with Recommendation No 5 of the Commission and the Council of the European Union, which says that there is too much pressure on work and business in Italy and too little pressure on other tax bases, including capital bases. Finally, I am also opposed to Amendment No 100.5 because, as is clear from the text of the motion for a majority resolution, we refer to areas which are not exempted from the expenditure review. The revision of expenditure is a way of governing and covers all sectors of public administration. Of course, we think that expenditure savings should be achieved in some areas, in line with this recommendation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u160	Colleagues, please have Deputy Minister Morando finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u161	Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Finally, with regard to Amendment 100.6 I would like to point out that there is a tax delegation to be exercised, and there is no need to include this point in the motion for a resolution on the DEF.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u163	Senator Calderoli, I remind you that we must proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u164	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since colleagues have disturbed me, I would like to understand Mr Morando's motives better. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u165	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.1. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 100. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.1, tabled by Senator Falanga and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.2 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.3 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.4 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.5. [[Senator Bonfrisco points out that she wants to intervene.]] I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u167	Senator Bonfrisco, the vote is already open.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u168	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I asked for your attention earlier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonfrisco, the vote is already open. I would remind you that in addition to being a minority rapporteur, you have already spoken in the debate and you have presented the amendments. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked for an explanation of vote. FERRARA Mario (GAL). He's got time! BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe I still have the guarantees in this House to ask for an explanation of vote on an amendment, one of those tabled and which we are voting on. [[Applause and comments from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrara Mario]] I am referring, Mr President, to Amendment 100.5 on the safety sector, and I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u169	The House will be grateful, as you can understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u170	I therefore call for the annulment of the vote, which I had already declared open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind the House as a whole, and especially those who have a greater responsibility, especially in the area of safety, that with this amendment we are calling for it to be considered as a priority or as a priority for all other sectors, which are, instead, safeguarded within the motion for a resolution, such as those relating to education and many other important and vital sectors of our society, which we intend to select, in the measures to revise expenditure, so - I imagine - more careful and precise. Above all, we are asking for it to be applied to the security sector, considering it to be important and strategic and, above all, worthy of our attention. I say this above all to the Minister of the Interior, who was present in this Senate a few days ago and was very committed to this. I would like to remind my colleagues in the NCD Group how important it is to guarantee to women and men in the Italian security sector our attention and the attention of the Government. In the same way, I would like to remind the Government that, in the vote just ended, not on the amendments or the DEF, but on that very important motion for a resolution, Mr President, which allows us to be in line with the European system and its rules, of the 170 votes we have collected (one hundred and 161 were needed to approve the motion for a resolution on the communications of Minister Padoan), the seven votes of the SEL Group were very valuable. Aside from Calderoli with its "calderolata", today we consider it particularly embarrassing for our colleagues of the NCD Group to be in a majority where SEL guarantees that this DEF can be approved. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. That's not true! Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 100.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 100.6 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of document LVII, n. 2, and of the communications of the Government on the report referred to in article 6 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 100, which was accepted by the Government. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an important communication to make. At its meeting on 16 April, the Presidency Council, in relation to the facts and circumstances at its meetings on 9, 10 and 16 April, agreed with the Presidency's proposal for the timely application of Rules 66 and 67 of the Rules of Procedure, considering it necessary to recall that it represents a serious violation of the institutional decency to display signs (see more if they bear images of the highest authorities of the State and public figures), to prevent or continuously interrupt the interventions of the senators, to disregard the Presidency's calls or, worse, to fail to respect its role and function, as well as the continued reference to the Rules of Procedure or to the order of work in clearly uncontroversial situations and therefore in a totally pretentious manner. The Council shared the Presidency's invitation to Senators Quaestors and Group Leaders to ensure that their cooperation is effective and correct, in relation to the President's requests to the senators belonging to the various parliamentary groups. With the abstention of Senator Bottici, the President-in-Office decided to deeply deplore the verbal and behavior of Senators Airola, Centinario, D'Anna, Santangelo, for having seriously upset the order in this House and for having offended the Presidency. For the same reasons, the Council deplores the manner in which the Senators belonging to the 5 Star Movement Group participated in the Senate's work at the sessions mentioned above. Should such situations arise again, it will take the subsequent decisions until the suspension of the parliamentary work of the senators that should repeat conducted in contrast to the regulatory and damaging predictions of the dignity of the Senate. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 4 p.m. with immediate questions on matters falling within the competence of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Happy Easter to all. (The sitting was suspended at 14.49 p.m. and resumed at 16.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u173	Let's resume our work. The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure on questions relating to strategic infrastructure interventions and initiatives relating to air and maritime transport, to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi, will respond. I'm sensing that RAI's live TV is on. Let us turn to questions about strategic infrastructure interventions. Senators and senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u176	RANUCCI (PD). Madam President, Minister, the Naples-Bari rail link is a strategic priority for the country. The European Commission has included the work in the proposals for the regulation of priority projects in the framework of the major trans-European networks for the period 2014-2020. On 5 February 2014, Italferr, the engineering company of the Ferrovie dello Stato group, terminated the contract for the execution of the works concerning the realization of the double track of the railway line Foggia-Caserta, within the project of the High railway capacity Bari-Naples. In 2013, work on the first section of Cervaro-Bovino track, a total of 23 kilometres long, was suspended for a long period due to the financial crisis in which the contractor was operating. A considerable delay has already been made in relation to the initial forecasts for the duration of the work. Of the 150 million euros of financing for the Foggia-Caserta section, 90 of which are already committed, 60 million remain unused. Minister, I would like to know from you what actions are deemed necessary for the rapid implementation of such an important infrastructure. As for Roma-Latina, I would like to know what is the point for the completion of the competition for the realization of the works, being a strategic infrastructure not only for the Region, but for the entire country. Being in project financing, it goes in the direction of public-private partnership policy, recalled in the DEF as a flywheel for the construction of infrastructure in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u179	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, the Corridor Genoa-Rotterdam is a European-wide railway infrastructure designed to make Europe and Italy more competitive worldwide and represents an opportunity for economic and social development not to be missed for Genoa and the whole of Alexandrian territory. This railway line serves 150 million people in the most populated and rich part of Europe (the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, the Po Valley). Being out of this axis means being out of European traffic. For Genoa is fundamental work for the increase of the traffics of the port, in order to break down the transport on rubber and for the fast connections, creating a strong interdependence in the tourist development, harbour, industrial with Switzerland, Germany and the richest Countries of Europe. Currently many of the goods that arrive in the Po Valley are disembarked in the port of Rotterdam, even if the ships pass from the Suez Canal and the Mediterranean. This is because it is not convenient for them to land in Genoa and to arrive in the Po Valley through the transport on rubber. Mr Minister, what action does it intend to take to speed up the construction of the "Third Jupiter Pass," a railway line at High Speed/High Capacity (AV/AC), 53 kilometers long, 37 of which in the tunnel, which affects twelve municipalities of the Provinces of Genoa and Alexandria, in order to speed up the connections with the cities of Milan and Turin, which was finally approved by CIPE in March 2006? It is considered necessary the rapid execution of the work since the third pass is fundamental priority for our country and represents one of the most important axes of Europe for the commercial exchanges as it will connect Rotterdam to Genoa; moreover, from 2015, the current railway network will be saturated and, therefore, insufficient to the necessities that the market demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u182	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, Torino-Lion at high speed is not provided for in any European legislation. This was confirmed by the then undersecretary at his Dicastery Girlanda in the Chamber on June 5, 2013. In fact, Turin-Lyon is part of the European Axis 6 that is not expected at high speed, while other axes are expressly provided at high speed. This is also reflected in the Annexes to European Union Decisions No 384 of 2004 and No 661 of 2010 and in EU Regulations 1315 and 1316 of 2016. Axis 6 is therefore not expected at high speed. Why do you continue to report erroneously that the TAV Torino-Lione is required by Europe? With regard to the recent ratification of the Treaty for the new Turin-Lyon line, the transfer of sovereignty to France has been extensively illustrated and demonstrated in Parliament, where we know that there is no advanced anti-mafia legislation like ours. What is the ratio for which it was decided to entrust all future contracts in Italian territory of the common trade according to French law, removing them in fact from Italian anti-mafia legislation? It appears that there are no such situations and there are no such situations in Italy. How can the Italian Government intervene on the French State and its regulatory framework to avoid infiltration of the Mafia into the contracts of the Turin-Lyon TAV line?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u185	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, Minister, the RFI joint-stock company of the Ferrovie dello Stato group, both directly and through the subsidiary TAV, is increasing the national network through the construction of new high-speed line branches along various lines: Turin-Trieste, Milan-Salerno (which also includes the adaptation of the very direct Florence-Rome), Tortona/Novi Ligure-Genoa, and so on. We all know that the exchange of goods and the movement of people in Europe are constantly growing and require a broad and integrated transport network that takes into account the need to remodel the transport system, which is not fully implemented today. Just think of the eastwards, including the Milan-Venice, and towards the South, the Naples-Reggio Calabria, infrastructures of fundamental strategic interest. In Sicily, to date, in 2014, there are still no high-speed trains on the networks connecting the various provincial capitals, including high-density passenger lines, such as Catania-Messina and Messina-Palermo. Then, Minister, I ask you what programmatic actions the Government intends to take, or have already been assumed, so that the lines under definition are completed and made functional, also in order to avoid ulterior works unfinished on the national territory; if in the National Program of the transports they are included, besides the completion of the already existing lines, also the realization of new railway lines and the strengthening of existing lines along the routes of greater traffic; if the commitment assumed from the Government to double the total ability of the Italian railway system is realistic; if it is possible to increase the efficiency and the speed of the connections between the terminals served from the high speed and the other existing railway lines; finally, if it will be possible to create new interconnections with ports, interports and airports.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u188	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Minister, on the subject of sustainable mobility, many issues are of concern. Among these, there is the search for a shared solution on the final draft of the state road 1 "Via Aurelia" which takes into account the demands of the citizens. It is a project, approved in 2012, on which depends the appeal of the Province of Grosseto and the Municipality of Orbetello, completely different from the preliminary of 2008, on which I submitted a question on February 19th. These are the perplexities: the assessment of environmental impact has not been re-elected; the definitive project is not such, since three lots have been removed from the definitive planning and the resolution CIPE of 2012 already identifies the maximum total cost of the work (including the three lots still undesigned), in fact binding the planning for these parts of the track; there is no coplanar roads, nor are there certainties of exemption of the toll for the residents for the period of the concession; the delicate balance of the territory is not taken into consideration with regard to the hydraulic risk (remember the tragedy and the damages caused by the flood in Albinia in 2012), nor are they known - waiting for the decisions on the Tyrrhenic - interventions for the improvement of the safety of the state road "Via Aurelia" in the sections at greater risk of incidentality, especially between Grosseto South and Civitavecchia. The ratio of the case becomes even more important if it is consistent with the relaunch of our development system. In this perspective, Minister, our concern is strengthened about the need to harmonize all the design dedicated to cross-cutting connections, especially for strategic territorial macro-areas such as that of the Province of Grosseto, respecting the delicate hydrogeological and landscape balance, in a wonderful and fragile territory, such as the one we are talking about. In this sense, having eliminated the Provinces only in their democratic part, we ask you to provide for an extraordinary consultation of the population concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u191	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you about the Variante di passico that you know very well. The Variante di passico, the new motorway section on the A1 that connects the North to the South of Italy, is a strategic work that the country has been waiting for twenty years and that has been happening for eight years. But we have a big problem: the two main tunnels - the Val di Sambro and the Sparvo - landslide and, in addition, we exceeded the costs in an exorbitant way. On the question of costs, I note that 420 million were estimated and there are reserves of more than 550 million. We get to almost a billion operas: an absurd thing. Moreover, the tunnels are breaking apart, they are not testable and you cannot do the inauguration and open that strategic highway section for the country. I would like to point out that the Commissioner for the work, Dr Coletta (commissary of the Variante di passico and - I remind you - director of the structure of surveillance on motorways), is responsible for not stopping the work when, arrived, at an overtaking of 200 million (for example), perhaps it was necessary to look into it. In the realization of this Variante di passico, for which 13 lots have been previewed, the society Autostrade for Italy has massacred the enterprises, and many have also failed. What we want to know, Minister, is: what do you plan to do? In the two galleries that cost 420 million, to which an additional 550 million have been added, you can put only cheese, Minister: you can use them as cellars, but the cars of the Italians will not be able to pass. As I said in the Commission, I expect you to find solutions to this serious problem. As a technician, I tell you that it will be difficult to find alternative solutions, which is to throw the work away and do it again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u194	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam President, Minister, the European Union has identified the Helsinki-La Valletta corridor as one of its infrastructure priorities as a key instrument for economic development and integration of the Member States. A work that assigns a central role to Italy and qualifies our Peninsula as a European logistic platform aimed towards the Mediterranean basin and towards the East. In this sense, the infrastructure connections of High Speed and High Capacity are fundamental and cannot be separated from the construction of the bridge over the Strait of Messina. The realization of the bridge would in fact allow not only the widening of the market with the intensification of the exchanges between enterprises and the birth of new entrepreneurial occasions, but also the improvement of the connections is on the short that on the long haul, the requalification of the current harbour systems that, lightened from the functions of local ferrying, will be able to concentrate on the crocieristico market and diportistico and, finally, a positive urbanistic impact with decongegation of the vehicular and marine traffic and consequent an environmental improvement due to the reduction of the pollution in atmosphere and the sea. Moreover, the Sicilian railway system - as has been said - is equipped with 1,450 kilometers of railway network, of which only 753 electrified and, above all, only a hundred kilometers to double track (just 20 percent of the entire line). On the road network, on the other hand, it is necessary to finance the completion of the Licodia Eubea-Libertinia itinerary. If a part has been realized, it remains the terminal section, that connects Caltagirone with the grafting of the highway 117, because the failure of the latter section would vanish the entire work. I, therefore, ask you to know what initiatives you intend to take... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. The time at your disposal is over. I invite you to make the question. COMPAGNONE (GAL). ...for the financing of the completion of the itinerary Licodia Eubea-Libertinia; what initiatives does it intend to take, Minister, in order to be able to proceed to the modernization and the efficiency of the entire Sicilian railway line and what actions it intends to put in place so that the plan of the bridge on the Strait can be resumed as the absence of such infrastructure would mean... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. COMPAGNONE (GAL). ...make the European Corridor Helsinki-La Valletta stunt, with serious prejudice not only to the spirit of the European Union on international infrastructure connections, but also to any hypothesis of development of Sicily and the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u197	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Minister, we have had the opportunity to learn from the Document of economy and finance and from its declarations that shortly will be launched the long-awaited plan of harbour reform, a program that the Country awaiting for years and that we are certain will be able to increase the potentialities and the international competitiveness of our harbour infrastructures. As you yourself point out, the greatest aspiration at the moment must be global competition, certainly not the defence of territorial aspirations, which in fact have very limited management of these infrastructures. It is known that some Italian port structures are the subject of ambitions and investments by international giants. I remember, for example, the PSA of Singapore, the world's largest terminal, that wants to invest 100 million in the terminal of Voltri, to which are added some important investment projects from Indonesian entrepreneurs in the port of Livorno, just to make some example. Investments likely to be slowed down or devalued by bureaucratic scaffolding or limited organisational capacity by local and port authorities. How, then, could the new port reform exceed this limit? By innovating and improving, I believe, the management and administrative capacities of the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u200	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, Minister, a study commissioned by the Veneto Region has recently confirmed the desirability and feasibility of a draining channel on the route of the old Padua-Venice waterway project, already largely expropriated for hydraulic purposes, capable of transporting part of the Brenta water into the lagoon, starting from Vigonovo, south-east of Padua. Such channel would have at least four advantages: it would protect the territories of Padua, Vicenza and part of the Venetian from the exondations of the Brenta and the Bacchiglione, to which the works previewed today are not able to cope in case of important fillings; it would contrast the erosive phenomena that are interested part of the lagoon of Venice, especially the central part; it would guarantee a relief to the agriculture of the Venetian in case of drought; finally it could be an important step towards the realization of the Padua-Venice hydrovia, economically valid in case of construction of the offshore port of the Upper Adriatic, already inserted in the objective law. For the realization of the work, which costs about 250 million, much less than the hydraulic damage of the last three years in the provinces of Padua and Vicenza, it is also possible to access European funds, but it is necessary an agreed action of the Veneto Region and the State. In its 2014 budget session, the Region allocated a fair amount for the executive project. The Regional Council also approved an agenda to this effect. Several municipalities have expressed their views in favour of the adoption of appropriate resolutions. Does the Government intend to support the realization of this work, strategic for the hydraulic safety of one of the richest and densely inhabited areas of our country? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u201	Madam President, I thank the interrogating senators. I will try to answer the questions I have been asked on time. The first question, among other things fundamental, is that linked to high speed and high capacity Naples-Bari. On several occasions, even in the Commission, we discussed, both in the presentation of the infrastructure programme for this Government and during the subsequent hearings, the fundamental importance which the Government attaches to the realization of the High Speed Naples-Bari. In fact, the government has repeatedly pointed out that, unfortunately, it happens that too often we think some works are strategic and too often they remain on paper. This is one of the most striking examples. It is in fact paradoxical how, at the moment when the Italian State decided to invest on the High Speed linking all its Tyrrhenian dorsal, from Turin to Battipaglia, and to connect the West and the East of the Country, we only have on the map, and there it remains, the realization of the connection between the Tyrrhenian and the Adriatic dorsal, fundamental and strategic not only because it is located in the South of the Country, but precisely because a Country that invests on infrastructure and high speed is a country united by infrastructure and high speed. On Napoli-Bari, to move from words to deeds, we have done two actions. The first, which the Senate approved by a large majority, is, indeed, unanimously, to allocate additional resources in the law of stability for the realization of Napoli Bari. As for the second action, since it was not enough to allocate resources, as the senator knows, we are working on functional lots, and already so many resources have been allocated (we have reached EUR 2 billion 980 million allocated to the state budget for the realization of this fundamental work). The point is that the resources are allocated, but the work does not start: they do not start work for the procedures that rightly need to be followed, for the authorisations in progress and, as has been pointed out, where the work has been started, they do not continue for the opening of disputes between the actors and the enterprises. In summary, the answer is as follows: we have set up a task force to monitor, step by step, week by week, the progress of the work. The Government is even willing to ensure that Napoli-Bari can be an example of extraordinary acceleration of procedures, precisely in order to ensure that, even in the South of the country, a work like this can be carried out in certain times. As for the high speed in another part of the country, allow me to take advantage of this question time first of all to express the solidarity of the Government, but I believe of the whole Senate, to the Mayor of the city of Susa, who today has been threatened, once again, in carrying out his function as Mayor, that is, as garrison, witness and institution on the territory. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LN-Aut and Senators Di Biagio and Dalla Zuanna). He received a letter of threat with bullets, with the sole fault of being Mayor of Susa and of being a loyal collaborator of the State, against procedures of involvement of the population and approval of a strategic work such as Turin-Lion, and therefore, to testify that one can serve the State in this way. Criminals and violents must be isolated, because they are criminals and violent. Another thing is to work together in the comparison, even with those who opposed the work, to verify the progress of the work. High speed or high capacity? It is very simple: Italy invested so that both people and goods could travel on iron. High capacity is the possibility both to travel, with high speed, people, and to move goods from rubber to iron. With regard to the anti-mafia rules and maximum transparency in the implementation, you discussed them in the Senate and we also discussed them in the House of Deputies. It will of course be up to the Government to bind and ensure that even the strictest laws of our Government, even in an international Treaty on the rules of transparency, precisely, against mafia infiltrations, are applied on the realization of Turin-Lyon. High speed must not connect only the East and the West or only the Tyrrhenian dorsal with the Adriatic dorsal: I think it is fundamental - it is the question that Senator Mancuso asked me - that High speed does not reach only where there is the question. High speed and large infrastructure are also a tool for enhancing and accelerating the redevelopment of a territory and creating demand. It is obvious that this is the task of a government. The State Railways are instruments for implementing the policy of a Government and, therefore, we told the State Railways that the High Speed must continue from Battipaglia and reach the South of the Country, up to Reggio Calabria. We have asked the State Railways and the RFI to do the design of the High Speed, because this is the task of a country that has the duty to invest on the High Speed and - at the same time - to requalify the regional transport. In fact, local regional transport cannot be in the conditions we are in, but it must have this task. So, from this point of view, we are moving forward and we are addressing ourselves with great clarity and certainty on this line. Here is the question of the Strait of Messina, because it is evident that, in a unitary plan of the Country, the High Speed should connect the whole Country, including Sicily. Beyond the personal political positions, which I repeat (in the sense that I have always agreed, in all the legislatures, for the realization of the bridge on the Strait, so much so that in the moments when we were at the government of this country - I think of the center-right majority - the planning and the realization of the bridge on the Strait were planned), there is however an issue. Today the current government (but I also believe Parliament) must take account of a law, which was voted by the previous Parliament, which has eliminated - by law, in fact - not only the prediction of the construction of the bridge over the Strait, but also the instrument with which this bridge was realized. I am referring to the company Ponte sullo Stretto in Messina. Therefore, in any case, it would be impossible, by any Government, to proceed to the realization and the planning, if not in the presence of a new forecast, no longer of programmatic direction, but legislative, precisely because - explicitly - it has been foreseen, by law, that that work must not be realized, and indeed it has actually dissolved society as an instrument. Therefore, on this subject remains the opinion, obviously political, my staff and my Group for which the bridge on the Strait remains an important work to be carried out in completion of the country's infrastructure design. As a government, however, there is nothing we can do at this time but proceed in the direction of the other priorities we have set ourselves. As far as Sicily is concerned, I will give a few punctual answers at another time. Now, however, I can say that, for the completion of the Licodia-Libertinian coast, there are about 140 million missing. I would add that the efficiency of the Sicilian railway line is in any case one of the inputs we have given to the State Railways: the Messina-Catania line and the node of Catania are fundamental challenges for the modernization of an area of our territory that is a resource of the entire Country. We must stop reasoning in compartments: the problem is Sicily, Puglia as well as Lombardy. The problem of infrastructure investments concerns the entire country: it is a bet for the whole country and we cannot leave someone behind. With regard to the Aurelia state road and the Tirrenic Highway in the Grosseto area, the Government considers that there are all the prerequisites to continue in the realization of the highway work, which today represents the only possible solution to solve all the problems of the Aurelia state road in terms of sufficiency and incidentality. The question of ports is fundamental. We are committed to presenting the overall reform by the end of May. We are working together with the Senate Commission to define a comprehensive text that allows - as the Government hopes - a truly rapid acceleration of the approval of the reform as a whole, both in terms of the reorganization and reduction of the number of port authorities and the modernisation of a law dating back to 1994. On the Padano-Venetian waterway - I conclude, President, and I apologise if I have taken more time from you - it was good for the Senator to remember that it is the competence of the Region. We will have to discuss with the regions the twelfth annex to the infrastructure. If the Veneto region raises the question to the Government, together with it we will evaluate the inclusion of this strategic asset in the new protocol of the program agreement of the Veneto-Central Government objective law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u204	RANUCCI (PD). Madam President, I am pleased with the Minister's answers. The commitment that the Minister has made is important. I would like to remind you that the real infrastructure is given by the interconnections air, land sea. Just today the press reports of the existence of difficulties with iron, as Etihad is taking a step back because we do not give the interconnection of high speed with Fiumicino. Together we must support an effort to ensure that our country becomes an absolutely modern country and that all interconnections can function and thus become competitive in tourism, trade and industry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u207	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). All I can do is point out that, on the Third Jupiter Pass, you, Minister, did not give me an answer. I hope, therefore, that I will be able to give a more detailed answer later on or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u210	SCIBONA (M5S). Minister, allow me to question the logistics of state investment, as it does not exist. If we spend EUR 400 million on adapting the existing railway line and then make a new one or we would like to make a new one, that doesn't make sense. Moreover, at the same time, we are making a second motorway rod, and therefore we do not understand where the rubber-iron transhipment goes. With regard to fears about openings to the Mafia, the Minister reassures me, but I still have great doubts, also because it is explicitly written in the Treaty that the only applicable legislation is the French one. I agree with your words of solidarity with the Mayor. These are absolutely not the methods of opposition and struggle, indeed they are certainly a negative fact, which affects the goodness of the logic of the opposition, which is absolutely right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Scibona. You know what the times are. SCIBONA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. I also remember that we are on the electoral campaign and this could also be one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u213	MANCUSE (NCD). Minister, I welcome your commitment to strengthening the rail network, which will also enable us to rebalance the transport system, which is currently in favour of road transport, with absolutely negative consequences in terms of environmental pollution, energy consumption and the safety of transport. If we are talking about rebalancing, there must also be a geographical dimension, particularly for high speed, because it seems to me that it is now imperative to have a design that includes high speed also in the South. Since we will no longer talk about the bridge over the Strait for quite a while, Sicily in particular needs to make the existing railway network more efficient and modernized, which I think is considered by all to be outdated and insufficient... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u214	I'm sorry, Senator Mancuso, but he had already exceeded the time limit.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u217	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr. Minister, I'm completely dissatisfied because you didn't answer. This zero is in fact absolutely posthumous, in 2008, but it took place in 2010. We do not know that lots 4, 5B and 7 have been removed following the conference of services, as the dealer has previously deleted the project of these lots, having failed to achieve a shared result. Moreover, I point out that on the project depends the appeal of the Province of Grosseto and of the Municipality of Orbetello and there is the critical question of polluting sludge, as it turns out from the detention of the yards. In this sense, I renew the request that, at least on this, a step be taken, that is to hear and consult the populations, who have already manifested their total opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u220	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, thank you, but the Minister has not answered me and you know that, in psychology, you have psychological trauma when you want to forget about something. The Minister is well aware of the problem: I do not know if the problems stem from what we saw this morning, so it does not end on Alitalia and anything else, and so the Minister is terrified. I know you forgot, because today is a very stressful day. I ask the Minister only one thing, namely his personal commitment, not that of the Renzi Government, to which I do not believe. I would ask him to make every effort to ensure that this problem, together with the Commission, can really be dealt with. This is a very serious problem, the Minister is aware of it and we know it very well. That is why I call for the Minister's personal commitment to this issue. If you wish, you can answer me in writing, and the answer will still be welcome, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u223	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam President, Minister, let me say this with all due respect, but at this point it is clear that high speed will never reach either Calabria or Sicily. This is evident from the debate, because it is obvious that without the bridge on the Strait you will not be able to make the High Speed, and therefore the High Speed in Sicily will never arrive. I do not think that a government can go to achieve high speed only in Sicily, without being connected to the rest of the Corridor. So, I'm sorry, but this is nonsense, and as usual we'll be fooled this time too. By the way, at least an act of good will from the Government, as I have asked several times, would be enough to open a serious debate table with the Sicilian delegation - and not with me, very modest senator - to review the infrastructure problems of the South of Italy. Among other things, there is an approved agenda that reopens the debate on the bridge on the Strait: a careful government would have understood that the closure of the concessionary company for the bridge on the Strait in fact costs the Government how much the realization of the work would cost.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u226	DI BIAGIO (PI). Minister, I am satisfied with your answer, and I thank you for the information you have shared with this House, also with respect to a topic, like that of the harbour reform, which has been stationary for several years, in reference to which the priority is to overcome the tendency to conservatism that so far has conditioned the management and the development of these infrastructures. What makes us particularly reflect is that the potential of the country, because of its geographical conformation, are many. To these goes to add the highly strategic character of some harbour ports of call, that however are objectively limited from the infrastructural profile. We hope, Minister, that what you have pointed out, which I fully appreciate and agree with, will soon be implemented, and that cross-border vetoes and territorial authorities can be easily overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u229	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Minister, I am partially satisfied, in the sense that I am pleased to know that there is the willingness to include this important work in the objective law, but I would also like that on the part of the Government there was the awareness that works of this kind have a value not only local, but also much wider, especially in a logic of portualità, of which we spoke before, in particular in the idea of transferring, through barges, the containers from the offshore port to arrive in the heart of the Po Valley. This would undoubtedly have an ecological advantage, as well as an advantage with a view to contending traffic to the ports of Northern Europe. So whoever lives will see: we'll see how this project can move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u230	We now come to questions concerning air and maritime transport initiatives, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u233	FILIPPI (PD). Minister, I put two questions to you, the first of which concerns air transport, and the vexed question of Italy and the fantastic plane of airports. For days press bodies, still today "Il Messaggero" but also authoritative voices more and more insistent, seem to accredit the presence among the alleged demands of Etihad for the entry in Alitalia, as well as a reduction of the debt and an increase of the redundancies, also of the substantial modification of the structure of our ports of call, with an infrastructural endowment today unavailable. We talk about transforming Malpensa's hub into a cargo port of call, returning Linate to its original passenger role, and connecting the Fiumicino port of call with high speed. I ask you, Minister, to know whether these indiscretions correspond to the truth, and whatever the Government's intentions in this regard, regardless of Etihad's demands. Finally, I would like to ask you once again, Minister, when you intend to hand over to the competent parliamentary committees the plane of the airports, which has not been lying in the drawers for four years now, but without quiet is being acted on the ministerial tables, and not just on those tables. A plan is an instrument; it is not the table of the law written on imperishable stone; it is even natural, therefore, that, due to specific conditions, it knows updates and functional changes also to seize opportunities and opportunities. But, as for the tables of the law, it must know its public evidence, otherwise it risks to become, as it seems for months, an improper instrument of negotiation: yesterday for the length and the rating of a track to ingratiate itself an Argentine tycoon; tomorrow, perhaps, for a change of destination not just and certainly not of any kind. The second question is practically a flash: it concerns the reform of the harbour order in its aspect perhaps more salient and innovative. I refer to the harbour integration and logistics: the harbour reform 2.0, as I define it. In this regard, if you think so, you can tell us your intentions on how you mean... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u234	Please, Senator Filippi, ask your question quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u235	FILIPPI (PD). ...that is being recorded between a hypothesis of construction of logistic systems with a bottom-up approach, according to the logic of variable geometry structures able to develop public-private partnership projects, corresponding to the actual logistic purposes... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The question, please. FILIPPI (PD). ...and the concept of logistic district that still in the DEF is reproposed according to logic instead more dirigistiche than already little luck have known regarding the industrial districts. I apologize, Mr President, for stealing more time than I had to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u238	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, your airport plan seems to be rather selective, especially for the North West, where the plan operates a drastic selection from the Passera plan of February 2012 (essentially never approved): a single strategic airport in the North-Western area (Malpensa), while Turin and Linate, which are part of the core network, remain excluded, as well as Genoa and Bergamo. A choice that responds to a very iron logic: the division of Italy into ten areas and, for each area, a single strategic airport plus several airports of national interest. In addition to Malpensa, in this first level of strategic ports of call there are: Venice Bologna, Fiumicino, Naples, Bari, Lamezia, Catania for eastern Sicily and Palermo for western Sicily. There is an eleventh port of call identified as "strategic" and it is also the only exception to the rule of a strategic port of call for each area: it is Florence-Pisa, that the plan admits to this main rank only on condition that the single management is realized, that is, the full corporate and industrial integration. The exception is justified in view of the morphological characteristics of the territory and the size of the ports of call. The classification of airports plays a fundamental role for our country because, at this time of serious and ongoing economic crisis, depending on the choices made by the Government, it can influence positively or negatively on several sectors such as tourism, business, trade. In this respect, Mr Minister, we are asked to know what the real criteria used for this classification have been, given that, for example, as regards the area identified as North-West, the second, third and fourth places in terms of national passenger traffic are occupied by airports in Lombardy (Malpensa, Linate and Orio al Serio respectively) and of these only the first has been elevated to strategic airport, while the others, in constant growth, have been relegated to airports of secondary interest. At the same time, as regards the area identified as Centro-Nord, hiding behind merely morphological criteria, three ports of call (Bologna, Pisa and Florence, are to single management) have been elevated to strategic airports, although they appear to be respectively to sixth, thirteenth and nineteenth place, always in terms of national passenger traffic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u241	CIOFFI (M5S). Minister, since you are a candidate for the European elections, I would like to know whether, if you are elected, we can continue to speak with you as Minister or we must speak with the next Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The question would cover the order of business. CIOFFI (M5S). However, this is a fundamental premise, in my view. I'd like to go back to port reform. There are important points we are discussing in the Commission, and the Minister knows that. I would like to know, since you have told us, even before, that you want to assemble and propose a part of the interventions as Government, what do you think of the hypothesis of naming the presidents of the harbour authorities with contest. I would also like to ask you whether, when we talk about financial autonomy, we want to make real financial autonomy and whether, instead of using VAT money, which is part of general taxation, we are thinking of liberalising airport taxes or imposing taxes for the purpose of implementing infrastructure. Otherwise we do not make real financial autonomy. From the point of view of the harbour system, moreover, the two tunnels that Switzerland is realizing on the Gotthard, have connected directly Milan with Rotterdam. We are, therefore, in extreme delay on this front, also because Switzerland - if I understood correctly - gives us 250 million euros to connect the tunnel with Milan and Novara. We are in a strange and absurd situation, for which we are always late. I would like to understand how we intend to deal with this problem. Is it still conceivable to talk about realizing the Palermo-Berlin axis without considering that, perhaps, we could more usefully use the ports, like Livorno or Genoa? Strange things happen. We're talking about bringing together port authorities. I am an example of the reality that I know best: Naples and Salerno. That of Salerno is a small harbour authority that, however, works well, while Naples works a garbage, but must spend 650 million euros. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u242	Finish it, Senator. You know that only questions can be asked to the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u243	CIOFFI (M5S). I would like to understand how we combine a small efficient authority with another inefficient authority. How do we do this?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u246	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, Minister, as I see it, the Province of Messina is the one that has the greatest tourist interest in southern Italy, due to the presence of the Ionian coast, Taormina, the Aeolian Islands, the Nebrodi region, which has great landscape and naturalistic value, up to Cefalù and so on. This territory is difficult to reach and is marginal compared to the main roads; it lives mainly of tourism and therefore needs a strengthening of the communication routes for a definitive take-off in terms of economic and employment development. It is necessary - in my opinion we have the need - the presence of an airport in the territory of the Province of Messina, moreover already identified with feasibility studies between the Municipalities of Milazzo, Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto and the small town of Torrenova, in the heart of the Nebrodi. The catchment area of the structure would include almost 800,000 residents, including the tourist poles of the islands and Cefalù. At the present time the inhabitants of the area of Messina use the port of call of "Fontanarossa" (Fontanarossa), some of that of Reggio Calabria, with all the inconveniences due to the transhipment; others, still, use the port of call of Palermo. All solutions that impose hours and hours of journey on the highway, with increased costs and times. I ask you, Minister, if you do not consider it appropriate to intervene, taken note of this situation, with acts of competence, to support a project that sees, after so many years of waiting, the birth of the airport of Torrenova-Milazzo-Barcelona, giving opportunity to the Province of Messina to assume a central role - which it deserves - and to allow that area the opening of new opportunities for economic development and tourism, development that would benefit the whole island. Alternatively, Minister, it would be essential to consider the construction of a fast road link between the northern coast of Sicily, the Aeolian Islands, and Catania Fontanarossa Airport.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u249	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Minister, these days the news of your meeting with Etihad has appeared in the press, with which the negotiations have been missed over the past few hours. We ask you therefore what is the orientation of the Government and whether the Government is aware of the fact that Etihad intends to invest in the expansion of the fleet and the routes, especially intercontinental, and what functions it intends to assign to the major Italian airports. We ask you, above all, if the Government is aware of what strategic function Etihad wants to reserve to the airport of Fiumicino, if it intends to develop and to promote concrete initiatives in order to become Alitalia and Italy a sort of platform to the center of the Mediterranean for the Asian and the North African markets, still, if it wants to promote the cargo sector of the company addressed, in particular, to the emerging markets. Finally, we would like to know its position and that of the Government on the construction of the fourth and fifth runway of the airport of Fiumicino, on which there is already the opposition, as well as of the populations and local committees, of the same Municipality of Fiumicino and of the Lazio Region. We would also like to know if you are aware - or if it is a question of indiscretions - of the fact that Aeroporti di Roma is rebuilding its corporate structure during this period, implementing a policy of re-acquisition of sectors that in recent years had instead ceased. We are concerned about the fate of so many workers and their families, already vexed by the behaviour of a society that continues, only for economic reasons, to contract contracts even below the hourly cost of trade union workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u252	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, the question we are asking you concerns the news of these hours about the relations - already mentioned - between Etihad, the Government and Alitalia. Certainly this is no small thing, if we think about what can then be the influences on the national airport system. Malpensa is an important resource for Expo 2015. The fact that there may be choices that go instead to place on the territory of the carriers, liberalizing - as it has been already evidenced from the press organs - slots on Linate, rather than on other airports, simply condescending in this case to the foreign investor, does not make neither the interest of the flag company - or of what remains of it - and certainly not even of what is the largest basin of airport users of the Country. Too often we talk about fragmentation. We do not want this to be a system built a bit on what has been the model of the construction of the metropolitan cities, so with many small airports scattered here and there, without considering that Malpensa was born to be hub, it was born for a territory, that is not that of the Province of Varese or that of Lombardy, but that of the entire country and, above all, that Malpensa compared to Expo 2015 is the only real resource available. On this we need guarantees and to know what the government's address is: the territory needs it and investors need it. If today we think, through Etihad or the carriers that collaborate with it in the European Union, of being able to transport people to Linate and then to make them cross the city of Milan by a small bus as happens today - especially since the City of Milan is late in the realization of the infrastructures - we deceive ourselves. We sell off what remains of the flag company, probably to satisfy the shareholders who participate today in the corporate structure, but surely we bury that great opportunity that in Lombardy can instead represent a resource for the entire country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u255	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Minister, a few months ago the issue of the extension of the Alitalia regional fleet emerged in the media. Specifically, we remember that in 2010 Alitalia has manifested the necessity to widen the regional fleet taking into consideration the proposals of three airlines. Between 2011 and 2012 he leased 20 new regional aircraft of the Brazilian company Embraer, completing the purchase operation started in 2010. We remember, however, that among the proposals there was that of the superjets of Alenia-Finmeccanica, more competitive, but in reference to which we feared a slowdown in the delivery times. In order to meet this limit, Alenia proposed to lease vehicles of a higher level than required, such as Airbus, for the duration of the delivery. Despite this offer and the fact that superjets were cheaper than Brazilian aircraft, Embraer's offer was preferred. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you can clarify the reasons why Alitalia's summits did not accept the offer proposed by Alenia, which seems to be more advantageous, in favour of a foreign company. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u256	Madam President, allow me first of all to apologise for not having previously answered, for lack of time, two Senator colleagues who had raised the question of the Third Pass and the Variante di Valico. The two questions - or better, the two macroarguments - that have been placed in this second round of question time concern, on the one hand, the National Plan of the airports and, of course, the theme always current of the flag company, and on the other, the new harbour reform - which I had already begun to mention in my previous answer to the Senator Di Biagio - and therefore that that that the Senator Filippi calls "the harbour reform 2.0". I will therefore start from the National Plan of the airports, and then address the issue of Alitalia and then move on to the topic of the reform of the ports. On the national plane of the airports, as I have said since the beginning of the inauguration of the government, I think that a government must absolutely have an instrument not only of address, but also normative that defines a national plan of development of the Italian airport system, in order then to allow the market to enter, work and invest regarding the priorities that a country gives itself in one of the strategic fields like that of the air transport, for a great industrial country like Italy. The previous Government had presented an act of direction, approved simply by the Council of Ministers, without even passing through the opinion of the State-Regions Conference. We wanted to present instead a National Plan of the airports, which will be issued by a decree of the President of the Republic, therefore a binding legislative act. In order to do this, we conducted a first general negotiation, the elements of which were also mentioned by Senator Pagnoncelli; several times Senator Filippi and the Commission all rightly asked us to present the overall plan; I asked the Council of Ministers for membership in the forthcoming sessions for the approval of the National Plan of the airports, which is an overall document. It will then begin the formal process to transpose the opinions of the State-Regions Conference, the State-City Conference and the Senate and Chamber Commissions, with an in-depth discussion and an in-depth debate. Before moving on to Alitalia, I remember that the fundamental principle is one: we need to rationalise, make strategic choices and give clear vocations and rules. We will not change the law, therefore no one will be penalized: there are airports of national interest that were provided for by the Passera plan and that, precisely for their national interest, draw on the resources and funding provided for by the law. Passera identified 37, within which we decided - without downgrading any - to identify 11 strategic ones, which make reference and system, having at last the courage to say that they cannot continue to coexist without dialogue between them four or five airports in an entire region or in a total strategic area. We will discuss this and we will discuss it in order to understand the comments that will be made. As for the Alitalia issue, I say very clearly and without demagogy about something that is fundamental for our country, that the flag company since 2008 is a private company. The Alitalia flagship company, which we believe to be, also as a private company, a strategic asset of our country, in November last year risked yet another closure and failure. As a government we have decided not to put further hand on the citizens' portfolio, to put state resources to repay those debts, but to ask private investors to rethink in that company and make investments. A recapitalisation was carried out by private individuals in that flagship campaign and we said that it was necessary for the Government, as far as its competence was concerned, to identify an international strategic partner in order to relaunch and make Italian airports and our flag company become a large non-regional player, as it was transforming, but international. The hypothetical agreement with Etihad is seen by the Government as positive precisely because it is complementary to the strategic plan to bring Italy back to the center of the world market. There's no penalty. The CEO of Etihad came from the President of the Council last week and came from the Minister of Transport the next day to present the general lines of an industrial plan that does not foresee the penalization neither of Malpensa nor of the airport system, as far as it was proposed to the Minister and the President of the Council. Of course we can only express ourselves after the agreement between the two private companies has taken place and, as had been announced, behind the presentation of a letter of intent with conditions and a response from the board of directors of a private company. We understand that a letter from Etihad arrived last night which sets certain conditions for private individuals to respond to. At the time of this response or not, it will be up to the Government to verify the content of these agreements with regard to its competences, which can only be those of the industrial plan, strategic development and employment plan. These are the competences of a government. We do not follow indiscretions; we also give advice to those who today talk about the penalization of Malpensa and Linate, to start to reflect whether the strategic choices also at those airports have been made or whether the problem or the lack of courage to make choices has not been dumped on others. We will wait to judge and confront each other when not the indiscretions but, if the agreement goes ahead, the industrial plan will be presented. We will assess whether it will meet the criteria that the Government has also communicated to the CEO of Etihad or not. As for instead the topic of the ports, that it is fundamental and strategic, I repeat that the harbour reform must preview a total general system: it cannot be only a reform of fundamental reorganization of the system of the harbour authorities. We have said this: the Government believes that 24 port authorities are too many, but it also believes that we must start, as at airports, to reason not on small, medium or large, but on integration. It is not acceptable that in our country competition is not done to the world, but it is done between ports 100 kilometers apart. We must start to make a program of the national strategic investments, that it sees in the harbour authorities the instrument of implementation and obviously of address, that it previews investments of the State in the infrastructures of connection between the harbour structures and the interporti, the airports and the railroads, finally an integration of the harbour vocation, that was that fundamental, with the logistic vocation in order finally to begin to reason on plans of wide area. The principle is not that of dirigismo - because there is nothing that descends from above, because the port is grafted into a territory - but that of coordination. As for the financial autonomy, it is evident that it is a fundamental topic; however, we can ask for the financial autonomy only in the face of a courageous reorganization of the harbour system, the harbour authorities and the programming that must take place. Otherwise, investments are made. As far as existing industrial plans are concerned, I stress that, compared to airports, it is true that there are some in the North of the country, such as those of Linate and Bergamo, very important, but it is equally true that there are airports that play a strategic role also in the South of Italy. We have to start thinking like this. Then, it is not a question of imposing reform from above, but of integrating the needs of the Government with the confrontation that took place in the Commission, in the Senate, and of identifying the best way by establishing certain times. With regard to the question raised by Senator Di Biagio, I would like to update the same senator in writing, considering that it is very timely, obviously falling within Alitalia's strategic plans. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u259	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, I am partially satisfied. For some aspects, I am a lot of it and I refer in particular to the harbour reform: the last clarifications supplied from minister Lupi are certainly of comfort, regarding the necessity to construct integrated systems between them, providing obviously a construction from below. I also agree with the approach to the airport plan of a binding legal act in relation to an act of direction. There is only a need to do as soon as possible because otherwise the instrument, rather than being regulatory and in any case direction, risks being a bargaining tool (which would not be good). Unfortunately, I am less satisfied with the answer given to the question that I realise is the most delicate one, still based on indiscretions and the delicacy of a flag company that is no longer public. However, there is the awareness that our assets, before even the supposed flag companies or not, are undoubtedly our ports of call. With regard to typology and vocation and development... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u262	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I am also partially satisfied, partly because you have just told us that the measure will also go to the Commission, where we will be able to compare ourselves and evaluate the consequences.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u265	CIOFFI (M5S). I am partially dissatisfied with the answer. Apart from the joke, the minister Lupi has asserted the necessity of coordination: I think it is right and that a coordination is necessary; however, if we make an investment on a harbour infrastructure and the State always continues to finance, it can happen that the efficiency is lost on the street. Financial autonomy would give this vision. I repeat, there is no discussion about the need for coordination and the need to act in conjunction. However, we must be careful because a good cell is likely to be inserted into a sick body: in that case, it does not heal the sick body, but the good cell dies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u268	MANCUSE (NCD). Mine was a punctual question and, therefore, perhaps I reserve the right to ask a written answer later, even if an indirect answer was given to me talking about the airport plan. I use the few seconds I have available to confirm the value of a territory - I always say, and I apologise if I am repetitive, of the Nebrodi and the Aeolian Islands - which has extraordinary potential, but unfortunately sacrificed by the marginality and distance compared to airport ports. The opportunities for this territory are likely to remain unexplored, if we do not take serious measures on the improvement of the road. I therefore ask Minister Lupi to bear in mind, if necessary, the possibility of a road link between this area and the airport of Fontanarossa.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u269	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u270	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u271	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am dissatisfied and worried. It is a curious government that puts speed as absolute value when it comes to the Constitution and the slowness when it comes to transport issues. In particular, there is also the paradox of the whole strategic issue of air transport. The National Plan of Airports, that's fine. But meanwhile the private (that of Alitalia has been defined a private and strategic situation), both the old and the new, has so far given the worst of itself and has put us in the condition of having to publicly repair and try to hold back. I think never before on this ground now, now, now, now, the government must strike a blow as long as it can, otherwise... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u274	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I am sorry for the Minister, but obviously this is the wave of the unsatisfied. Certainly we cannot be so for the approximation of his answers, which do not give any guarantee regarding the future of the largest airport investment made in Italy that is Malpensa and especially regarding Expo. It is not a question of bell tower or a regional issue. It is a wrong choice to continue investing and chasing Alitalia (a carrier), rather than giving the right weight to the investments made, therefore to the infrastructures. You have to make choices that take into account not the interests of the lenders, or the financial interest behind Etihad rather than the brave captains, who then saw what they did. They threw a large amount of money into all of us by binding us to interests that are not those of the territory, that needs safe transport. On this, Mr Minister, we call for your commitment to be stronger and more secure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u277	DI BIAGIO (PI). Thank you, Minister, for what you have not been able to say about Alitalia's choices. In fact, it is understandable that there may be specific reasons for opportunities for choosing one trade option over another. But I think it is equally understandable that the competent institutions provide that information, that clarification necessary to avoid the inexorable media speculations that often accompany the news related to Alitalia's management. Beyond these aspects, we hope that on the next occasions the Italian industry can be more valued, especially in such a complex economic situation. I would like to take this opportunity to express to you the hope that the negotiation of these hours with Etihad can be resolved positively for the parties involved. In this regard, I trust in his excellent work, of which I am truly satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u278	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Lupi for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u279	I communicate that the requested number of Senators has received the request - pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation - of remission to the Shareholders' Meeting of the favourable opinion expressed by the Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of Decree-Law No 16 of 6 March 2014 on urgent provisions concerning local finance, as well as measures to ensure the functionality of the services carried out in school institutions. The resolution of the Shareholders' Meeting must take place within five days of the request pursuant to the aforementioned regulatory provision. Therefore, the Senate will meet again on Tuesday 22 April, at 5 p.m., with the aforementioned resolution on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u280	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-233.ana.u281	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 April, at 5 p.m., with the agenda just announced: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18.
