ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders has complemented this week's timetable with the joint examination of the anti-Mafia Commission's reports on nominations for European and national elections, on the fight against mob crime in Europe and outside Europe, on the protection system for witnesses of justice. In addition, during the afternoon session on Thursday 30, the Assembly will discuss the Government's Report on Public Finance Policy Objectives. Each Group may speak in general discussion and in an explanation of vote for a total of ten minutes. The closing time for the sitting will be fixed in relation to the convening of Parliament in a joint sitting. During the afternoon session of the question time the Minister of the Interior will answer questions on the management of migratory flows and on the resources and organization of the police forces. Next week's timetable provides for the examination of the Decree-Law on the resumption of productive activities, as well as the draft law on the civil liability of magistrates, where concluded by the Commission. On Thursday 6 and Friday 7 November the interparliamentary meeting on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) will take place in the Senate Chamber. Therefore, the Assembly will not sit on these dates. From 11 to 13 November, the discussion of the unfinished topics will continue. The draft law banning the benefits of sentenced persons pursuant to Article 416b of the Criminal Code, as well as the motions on the future of the Special Steels Terni plant and the crisis in Meridiana and on territorial continuity with Sardinia, will also be discussed. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 12, we shall be voting by secret ballot on ballots for the election of a Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of October, November and December 2014: - Document XXIII, n. 2 - Report on the Italian Presidency of the European Union and the fight against mafia crime on a European and non-European basis - Document XXIII, n. 4 - Report on the system of protection of witnesses - Drawing of law n. 1344 - Prohibition of granting benefits to convicted persons for the crime referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 13 November 2014: [[Tuesday, October 28 pom. h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up to bill No 1119 and related - Defamation (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Joint debate on documents: - Doc. XXIII, point 2 - Report on the Anti-Mafia Commission on the six-month EU Italian Presidency and the fight against mob crime on a European and non-European basis; - Doc. XXIII, point 3 - Anti-Mafia Commission report on nominations for European and national elections; - Doc. XXIII, n. 4 - Report on the Anti-Mafia Commission on the protection system witnesses of justice - Drawing of law n. 1167 and related - Delegate reform nautical code from diporto (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Report to the Parliament that variation to the Note of update of the 2014 Document of economy and finance (Thursday 30, ant.) Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom h. 16,30-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9.30 a.m. Thursday 30 October pm. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of the Interior on: - management of migratory flows; - resources and organisation of police forces]] [[Tuesday 4 November pom. h. 17 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 133, resumption of productive activities (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade 11 November) - Drawing of law n. 1070 and related - Civil liability of magistrates (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No... (Decree-Law No 133, resumption of production activities) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1070 and related (Civil responsibilities of judges) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. On Thursday 6 and Friday 7 November the Senate will be engaged in an interparliamentary meeting on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). [[Tuesday 11 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 1344 - Prohibition of benefits to sentenced persons pursuant to Article 416-b Criminal Code - Vote for the election of a Senator Secretary (Vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 12, pm.) - Discussion of motion No. 300, Rossi Gianluca, on the future of the special steel plant Terni - AST - Discussion of motion No. 284, Uras, on the crisis of Meridiana and on the territorial continuity of Sardinia Wednesday 12 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 13 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 13 November pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1344 (Prohibition of benefits to sentenced persons under Article 416-b of the Criminal Code) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 10 November. Time distribution for discussion of the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 133 - Resumption of productive activities) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u9	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask, not to approve this timetable, for the timetable, as has already been stated, at this point in the week from 11 to 13 November, which seems to me to be the first useful one, as well as the anti-corruption package, which lies in the Justice Commission, being one of the most important subjects for our country, and on which we have already asked for an emergency procedure that had then stopped waiting for a draft law of the Government that, however, has never arrived, and of our draft law, No 624, the establishment of a parliamentary committee on the financial failure of the credit institution of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. I ask because today's news is that the MPS is in very serious condition, despite the abundant funding received, both by the Monti Government and later, when they were asking the Italians big sacrifices and we found ourselves giving almost 4 billion to the Monte dei Paschi. I would also ask - perhaps on Thursday or Friday - for the Minister's information on the current situation of the MPS. Since it is also necessary to safeguard small savers who could have the worst in this banking affair, in order to reassure the House, I propose a possible secret sitting, as provided for in Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to avoid a disturbance of the markets. This request, which can be made by a number of senators, could be providential because the question is really important, especially in view of the time spent in which we believed that the banking institution could be raised, while it sinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u10	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings, presented by Senator Airola. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, during the approval of the timetable, especially with regard to the changes that have taken place due to the fact that the balances have changed and that therefore the DEF Update Note must be discussed again, at the meeting of the Presidents of the parliamentary groups all the oppositions have pointed out that the authorization to deviate should be voted again by an absolute majority. I say that because it is certainly not a minor issue. It seemed to me that the Presidency wanted to go further and then inform the House of the relevant determinations. I would therefore like to understand, Mr President, what is the proposal if, in other words, it intends to proceed with the simple majority vote or to vote on the authorization for the deviation, since we - as you know - believe that having made an amendment to the resolution which was voted on by an absolute majority, it is necessary to vote on the authorization for the deviation. I have also taken the floor, Mr President, because I believe that this House, beyond the meeting of the Leaders, should not say debate but certainly be local in mind about what is happening with regard to the so-called Italian decree-law unblocks. This measure will presumably be voted on by the House of Deputies, with the conclusion of the trust procedure, on Thursday morning, 30 October, but since it expires on 11 November, the Senate will not only have the opportunity to hold a discussion a little in-depth, but also to dare to think of proposing changes. Furthermore, repeating the question raised at the meeting of the Heads of Group (I see that there are many colleagues from the Environment Commission who I believe will agree with), I think it absolutely necessary that the Decree-Law should be referred not only to the Commission's examination of public works, but also to the Environment Commission. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u16	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in connection with the speech by Senator De Petris, I too speak with reference to the request made at the meeting of the Leaders to invoke to himself, to his own powers as President, the decision on the absolute majority voting of the members with respect to the deviation that has been announced by the letter that the Italian Government has sent to Commissioner Katainen. However, the problem is still linked to a deviation in the term commonly known as MTO, i.e. the medium-term objective. As soon as the Government presents the Update Note to you, we hope that you will decide why this House will be able to express itself exactly as it has already expressed itself, i.e. by an absolute majority of its members. With reference instead to the measure unlocks Italy, I believe that Senator De Petris has correctly posed the problem. Once again we are faced with the fact that the House acts as if we were in a single-camera system for which we will have very few days to examine a fundamental measure, of the many announced as such by the Renzi Government, which we believe is authentically fundamental, as, indeed, unlocks Italy. The debate on this measure, in all probability, will be held essentially in the Commission and very little in the Chamber, not having the time to examine any changes made by the Senate. I think, however, that with a little good will of the spaces can be found. We also gave our willingness to the Government to make a few changes. We do not want the decision, debate, vote and deepening of this important measure to be carried out in just one of the two chambers of this Parliament. On this point too, therefore, let us ask you to reflect on all the elements relating to the fundamental role of this branch of Parliament, so that it is not penalised, as has happened in the past and as we do not want it to happen on this occasion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u19	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, we too, of course, will return to your decisions on the way in which the debate takes place and how the document is to be voted, which, as you announced, will be brought to the House next week. Obviously we refrain from making any predictions, because we know that the voting conditions will be very different depending on the content of the document, because it is clear that if the balances will improve compared to those that the Senate approved with the prescribed majority, it is one account; if they will get worse, it is another. I am sure, President, that you will decide, taking into account the contents of the Note that will be transmitted to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u20	As I anticipated at the Conference of Leaders, we must first see the Update Note, after which it will be audited this evening, Minister Padoan, who I think in the Commission will be able to clarify the point about the variation. Tomorrow we will then decide accordingly. With regard to the timing of the transmission of decree-laws in general and the so-called unblocking of Italy, in particular, I have already said at the Conference of the Leaders - and I repeat this - that I will send a note of my own to the President of the House. Of course, all possible times will be used in order to be able, if necessary, to carry out the necessary discussions or changes. It will then be the House, as always, that is sovereign on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u21	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1119, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 734, 845, 903 and 1067.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the amendments - to which I hope they will be adopted - we are about to enter into the midst of the examination of a draft law, already approved by the House of Members, with which we are intervening on the crime of defamation. And this crime, ladies and gentlemen, must be carefully assessed, seeking to combine the need to protect freedom of information with the other important right of the citizen not to be defamed. Often these two important assets are conflicted. The conflict is often ruinous. This conflict is often blamed on the one hand on the part of the citizens and, on the other hand, on democracy itself. That is why Parliament finally has the courage to intervene and that is why it is right for Parliament to intervene. In fact, we must have the capacity and maturity to avoid and defuse a conflict that only harms the civil and democratic life of our country and relegates, at the same time, our country to the margins of the great advanced democracies. It is not easy to protect freedom of information together with the right of the citizen not to be defamed. In the past Parliament has tried to do so, but all the proposals, the draft laws, all the attempts were dragged through the work of the Commissions and often, even when the Commission's obstacle was overcome, everything was stuck in the work of the House. This time it doesn't have to be like this. The House made it and launched a text. In the Justice Commission the Senate has done a careful job, to try to improve the text of the House. We are now called upon here to approve this text. Colleagues, we refer to a major aspect, contained in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In the Convention, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that every person has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive or communicate information or ideas without any interference from public authorities and without border limits. It is of course argued, again in Article 10, that this does not prevent States from subjecting broadcasting, cinema or television undertakings to an authorisation scheme. Moreover, it is always argued in Article 10 that the exercise of these freedoms, as it entails duties and responsibilities, may be subject to the formalities, conditions, restrictions or sanctions which are provided for by law and which constitute necessary measures, in a democratic society, to national security, territorial integrity or public security, to the defence of order and to the prevention of crimes, to the protection of health or morals, and then, here is the point, to the protection of the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the disclosure of confidential information or to guarantee the authority and impartiality of the judiciary. In its case-law, the European Court of Human Rights has always been careful to underline the role played by the press, which results in their function of reporting to the general public on events of interest and has considered sanctions against journalists as interference in the exercise of that right. The European Court considers this interference legitimate, ladies and gentlemen, only under three conditions, which the rapporteur, in her initial speech, had brought to the attention of the House, and which I would like to recall: that it is provided for by law; that it is a necessary means of pursuing legitimate aims in the context of a democratic society; that it is proportionate to the fact. There was a judgment of 2 April 2009 in which the Court of Strasbourg sentenced Greece to compensation for a journalist. In this important judgment, the Court of Strasbourg considered that prison sentences are not in principle compatible with freedom of expression, because prison has a deterrent effect on the freedom of journalists to inform with negative effects on the community which, in turn, is entitled to receive information. Furthermore, in this judgment, it is stressed that the provision of a prison sentence imposed on an infringement committed in the field of the press is not compatible with the freedom of journalistic expression guaranteed by Article 10 of the Convention which I previously recalled, if not in exceptional circumstances. In particular, it is not compatible when other fundamental rights have been seriously harmed, such as, for example, the spread of a speech of hatred or incitement to violence. The same case law of the European Court has offered in many previous different criteria in the light of which to assess the existence of the delicate requirement of proportion. I mean, let's not go sniffing around. We have this consolidated case law of the European Court and we are therefore able to anchor both the right to information and the right to the protection of citizens not to be defamed in legislation. Both in the House and here in the Senate we confirm that the prison sentence is not provided and we prepare a series of instruments aimed at restoring the truth in an effective and adequate manner with the new discipline of correction. The correction to the conditions described in the law allows the non-criminality of the author and of those responsible for the offense obtained. There are also a number of contributions that the Commission has accepted and which enable us to work, here in this House, on a text that is sufficiently mature, balanced and ready to be adopted. Colleagues, I make some important references that can attract your attention, because they are the subject of continuous discussion, not only within the institutions, but in civil society. For example, paragraph 1 of Article 1 extends the scope of the law on the press both to online newspapers registered at the Courts' Courts and to newspapers and radio and television. In paragraph 2, then, as I mentioned before, the discipline of the correction provides that it must be published free of charge, without comment, without reply, without title and with the indication that it is a correction related to a certain article identified with the date of publication and the name of the author. In addition, the Senate Justice Commission has identified cases where statements or corrections are not available, i.e. where they have content liable to criminal indictment or are documentaryly false. A specific procedure was introduced for the implementation of corrections on online newspapers. In addition, for periodicals, the Senate Justice Commission has provided that statements or corrections cannot be published when they are documentaryly false. For non-periodical printing, it is established that the same rectification procedure may be used by the author of the offense, in the case of inertia of the director of the newspaper, the periodical, the online newspaper or the person responsible for radio or TV transmission. The director or in any case the person responsible, in the event of the author's request, is obliged to publish or disseminate the correction. In the Senate Justice Committee, it was also envisaged that, in the event that a reprint or a new publication of the print or publication on the website is not possible, the corrected publication should be made in a national newspaper. Moreover, when the time limits for publication of the correction have passed, the person who requested it in vain may ask the judge for its publication to be ordered. In particular, the Justice Commission, also of the Senate, has provided that the request for correction must be accepted in any case by the judge when a determined fact that constitutes a crime has been falsely attributed. In addition, the Commission has provided that, in the event that publication is ordered by the court, the court shall notify the prefect of the publication for the purpose of imposing the administrative penalty in the event of failure or incomplete compliance with the order of publication and transmit the notice to the professional order for the adoption of the determinations of jurisdiction. In addition, the amount of the administrative penalty for non-compliance or incomplete compliance with the correction obligation has been changed, bringing it to 8,000 euros in the minimum and to 16,000 euros in the maximum. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make a detailed reference to the Commission's work in order to make it clear that attempts have been made not to leave that attempt to bring into line the intangible right to information with the sacred right not to be defamed and that, indeed, it has found, in the legislation that we propose, the possibility of concrete forms of implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the determination of compensation for the damage caused by defamation committed by the media or by radio and television, it is also expected that the judge should take into account the quantitative spread and the national or local relevance of the means of communication used to consume the crime. It must also take into account the seriousness of the offence and the remedial effect of the publication and dissemination of the correction. The action for damages is prescribed in two years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another qualifying point, which has been the subject of evaluation and discussion and then of a balanced and rational decision. We are ready, therefore, to ensure that Parliament can finally intervene. Mr President, there are several draft laws that we have managed to complete in this parliamentary term. Those who, like me, remember parliamentary work know that this has often not been possible and that the work of this House, paradoxically, became the cemetery of all the innovative measures with regard to some aspects of change in our judicial system and the protection of modern citizenship rights. I think that today, however, the House can become a resource, an opportunity not only to reflect and improve the text of the Commissions, but also to arrive, at the end, at a decision, at the adoption of a legal text. The House has done it, we will do it here in the House, then there will be a third reading, if we decide so, in the House and finally our country will be equipped with a modern system. The Democratic Party has also contributed with its own bill. I would like to say this because we too have considered the reform of the crime of defamation a priority. We presented two draft laws: a draft law of the PD Group at the first signature of Senator Casson and another bill at the first signature of Senator Chiti, who had found the consent and signature of other senators, also of the opposition. That's it now. I would also like to thank the rapporteur and those parliamentarians like Senator Capacchione: thanks to her experience in the field, she helped us to avoid mistakes and to ensure that the balanced relationship between the value of information and that of protecting citizens' rights could not really stumble in reality, but rather improve it and unlock it. That is why we are ready for the practical work of the House to examine the amendments and to adopt this important text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u24	Mr President, my fellow senators and my fellow senators, I apologise if I will not only reply to you but also to those who have dealt with this bill outside this House. I happened to read - perhaps you too - some articles and definitions of this text and one of the kindest was of the type: "Gag for information: politics wants to silence the free press again." Let us then clearly define the boundaries and limits of this legal text. The main objective is the elimination of the prison sentence for journalists, a request which has been made to us in all ways by Europe which now considers this punishment against the journalist who is responsible for the crime of defamation as archaic and no longer responding to the rights of opinion and information existing in the real world. Of course, the prison sentence is replaced by a pecuniary penalty. Criticism has also been voiced about this. I remind everyone that the financial penalty provided for in the text provides for a maximum of 10,000 euros, without indicating a minimum starting amount. The determination of the financial penalty is left to the discretion of the judge to calculate it on the basis of the spread of the news and the consequences it has had. There is also a monetary penalty with a maximum limit of EUR 50,000, but only in a particular hypothesis that I would like to mention: if the offence consists in the attribution of a certain false fact, the spread of which took place with the awareness of its falseness. I believe that a journalist who makes himself responsible for this, that is to say to knowingly spread, voluntarily a news that knows how to be false, at least deserves to suffer consequences on his heritage. With regard to the correction, it is provided for without reply, without comment and without title; it is true, it is heavy as a consequence, but the correction made pursuant to this text allows a condition of non punishableness. Therefore, the author of the article supposedly defamatory with the publication of the correction no longer faces any criminal consequences. In the Committee on Justice it has been expressly provided that the correction should be excluded, so the journalist, director or deputy director responsible may not publish the correction requested, if the statement is documentaryly false. The law in question, in addition to having this objective, i.e. to replace the financial penalty with the prison sentence for journalists, also has another one: to extend the application of defamation to the press, not only to the newspapers that we are all accustomed to know, that is to say, the paper ones, but also to the media and newspapers on line, those registered under Article 5 of the law on the press, those, to be understood, that have registered their own newspaper at a court, with a certain location. That is why, having extended the same subject (defamation through the press) to all these newspapers, as rapporteur I have tabled an amendment to have the same competence (determined on the basis of the place of registration) for all these newspapers, regardless of whether they are paper or online. If this law has as its objective the modification of the rules on defamation by means of the press, it cannot relate to other expressions of opinion or communication. That is why I must already announce the negative opinion that I am obliged to give to amendment 2.105, tabled by Senators Torrisi and D'Ascola. Why? Why extend to blogs (this is the theme) the responsibility of the director or the deputy director responsible, pursuant to Article 57 of the penal code, is a complex intervention, which requires meditation and comparison and deserves to be evaluated within a review or, better, a comprehensive legislation of communication and the world of the Internet, which is as much as necessary and no longer postponed. In this regard, I recall that a sharing path has begun, which has been called the magna charta of the Internet, and that a reflection has begun in the Chamber of Deputies on this issue, that is, on the rules of the world of blogs and the Internet, on the rules that can be given to the network, without wanting to limit the freedom of anyone, but giving precise boundaries to this world. This must be done within a text and an organic work, which requires comparison, discussion and participation of all categories and stakeholders, and therefore cannot be done with an amendment included in a text relating to press defamation, which has another objective. Then we have Article 3 on the right to be forgotten, which is included for the first time in our legal system. Let me tell you a story: it's Mr. Gonzalez's story. Mr Gonzalez is a Spanish gentleman who, at some point, has economic difficulties. Well, his assets are foreclosed and his assets are sold at auction or, better, a notice of sale of his assets at auction is published. If Mr Gonzalez manages to recover from his economic difficulties, he is able to pay his debts and therefore his assets are no longer sold. But ten years later, when someone typed Mr. Gonzalez's name on a search engine, who knows why the ban on the sale of his assets came out; so Mr. Gonzalez continued, as he said, to have on his chest the indication of a debtor not properly large. What does Mr. Gonzalez do? He's asking for the removal of that warning. But that warning and that news have now been hooked up by a well-known search engine, which starts by "go" and ends with "gle": Google. So Mr. Gonzalez also asks Google to eliminate that notice of sale of his assets, which no longer corresponds to reality, because it has been ten years and his economic situation has changed. Mr Gonzalez loses, but things go on and in May 2014 a ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union comes in saying that Mr Gonzalez and any other citizen of the States of Europe - who we hope will soon become the United States of Europe - has the right to ask the search engine to delete the news that has been published in violation of the processing of his personal data or no longer responding to the real situation; he has the right to ask, then he will be a judge, in case of non-compliance by the search engine, to order the removal. This is Article 3 of this text, which provides for the right to be forgotten. I ask you the question: does a citizen have the right sooner or later to ask a search engine to cancel a news that no longer corresponds to the truth or that was hooked up or was born twelve years ago? That's the thing. All this happens, I repeat, through the scrutiny of a judge. Finally, I come back to a point I have already dealt with in the report: justice faces many difficulties, one in particular is the intimidating use of justice itself. In the world of communication, newspapers, newspapers and journalists, this is a very sensitive issue because everyone has had to endure reckless lawsuits or civil and reckless actions where huge amounts of compensation were required to paralyse that journalist's information action. I will ask this House, proposing the rewording of two amendments that have been proposed, to decide whether, in the face of what has been provided for in this legal text, or a correction without comment, reply or title, there can be as balancing punishment or in any case a deterrent action against those who abuse justice in order to propose reckless civil actions or reckless lawsuits. I honestly believe that we have done a good job in the Committee on Justice and I thank all the participants, and I am convinced that this will improve the world of information, the state of journalists and that we will do a good service to this country and its press. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u26	Mr President, I followed the debate with interest. I would like to thank the Senate Justice Commission, the President, the rapporteur and all the members for doing a job that has certainly improved the text. As the rapporteur has pointed out, important amendments have been made in the field of rectification, because now, for example, it is possible for the journalist himself and not only for the person offended to ask his director to make the correction. In fact, in view of the shared responsibility of the director and the journalist for the crime of defamation and the new introduction of the correction as a cause of non-perpetuality, positions and responsibilities must necessarily be treated differently from each other in case only one of the two wishes to proceed with the correction. From this point of view, the Senate Justice Commission has introduced a significant novelty by introducing the rule that expressly provides for the non-criminality of the author in the event that he has asked the director for the correction, but he has refused it. This is certainly an aspect that I wanted to highlight and that is also acceptable to the Government. Also important are the forecasts included in the text regarding the formal requirements which the correction must have in order to be able to act as a cause of non-perpetuality. The correction, in particular, in order to determine non-perpetuality, not only must be made within two days from the request of the offended person, not be accompanied by comments and have the same prominence as the previous defamatory news, but must specify with precision to which previous article refers by the title, date and name of the author. It should also be added that the application of the Press Act to online newspapers is limited to the content produced, published, transmitted or put on the net by the same editorials. This should avoid the risk of a director's or journalist's responsibility for the comments made by the reader. It is a very important aspect, because if the director or the journalist manage an online directory of dialogue with the readers, without having an effective possibility to check in advance and filter user comments, it seems acceptable that only the latter respond to what is written, but not also the director or the journalist, who will instead be responsible only for the content directly attributable to the editorial staff. This is an important rule because it distinguishes and, therefore, exempts the director or the journalist from responsibility towards the user who is directly inserted, with a potentially defamatory message, in the online news magazine. Therefore, the user is reminded of a responsibility that differs from those who do not actually have a control. These are the most significant changes. As the rapporteur has just said, this text is important because it puts an end to the prison sentence, and therefore to prison, for this type of crime, and replaces it with financial penalties. In addition, it provides for correction as a cause of non-perpetuality, which is another novelty, as is the extension to online newspapers of the rules provided by the law on the press. Another particularity that I would like to highlight, and on which the Government agrees, is the institution of delegation of functions that the editor of the newspaper may use, which may delegate to a journalist the control over the articles published in the newspaper he directs. A further significant novelty introduced by the Senate Justice Commission is the requirement for websites and search engines to eliminate defamatory news at the request of the person concerned. This is an obligation that is added to that of the correction, with respect to which it is expected, in the event of non-compliance, that the interested party may ask the judge to order the said removal. In any case, the Government is willing, even in the amending phase, to give its opinion in favour of some amendments tabled, precisely because it is interested not only in a expedited process of the measure, but also in its improvement. On Article 3 - for example - opposition amendments have been accepted which have led to a new wording; its heading is now: Measures to protect the defamed person or the injured person in honour or reputation. It was discussed in the Commission whether to provide for a penalty for those who failed to comply with this rule. I also saw the amendment tabled today by the rapporteur, for which the Presidency set the deadline for submission of sub-amendments. The Government is willing to accept this amending proposal and, as I will then say in the course of the examination, also with respect to other amendments tabled by the senators. I have nothing more to add, except once again thanking the Justice Commission for this work. We hope that this rule will soon be adopted, also because with regard to ending imprisonment, we also received the Venice Commission at the Ministry of Justice, which, as you know, is an aid body to the Council of Europe, which drew the attention of the legislator and the Government on this issue in order to try to put an end to prison sentences for these types of crime, which are among the crimes of opinion, for which it is necessary to ensure compliance with Article 21 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u27	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments to it, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the G100 agenda, which is preliminary to the examination of the amendments and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to take a decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u28	Mr President, I propose to the draftsman of the agenda, leaving the premises unchanged, the following rewording of the proposal: The Government undertakes to consider the adoption of measures to overcome the problems highlighted, reserving the right to consider whether it is appropriate to revisit the entire system of order relating to all the professions that are inspired by this regime and not necessarily only that relating to the journalistic profession. If the rewording is accepted, the opinion on its adoption is positive.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u29	Senator Buccarella, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u30	No, Mr President, we do not accept the proposal for a rewording, because the specific nature of the issue on the agenda clearly concerns the Order of Journalists for the reasons which are set out in the text of the agenda itself. I would also ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u31	The Government's opinion is in favour, subject to rewording, in accordance with the rapporteur's comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u32	The Government's opinion is therefore against it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G100 agenda, presented by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u33	Mr President, I will only mention amendment 01.100, because it is based on a completely innovative approach, because it accepts the indications that have been made by various international bodies, including the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the United Nations Special Rapporteur, Article 19 and, last but not least, the Committee to protect journalists in New York, also proposes a decriminalisation of the matter. It is a legislative delegation proposed for an organic reform of crimes against honour, based in the first place on the decriminalization of crimes of injustice and defamation according to the policy of criminal law adopted by Law No 67 of 2014 which, in order to deflate criminal justice and enhance sanctions sometimes even more effective than the criminal one, has provided for the decriminalization of several cases of criminal offence, or of merely abstract danger, free of offense to third parties or in any case harmful of legal goods better protected with sanctions such as those extrapenal ones that are not subject to conditional suspension of the sentence, which do not require such a complex investigation as that of the criminal process, which have a deterrent effectiveness sometimes even more because more effective. Consider interdictive measures as an example. If, therefore, our criminal system is finally accepting in general a minimalist approach, it must apply to fortresses in the field of press crimes, sometimes even crimes of opinion, where, that is, the criminal penalty risks hitting the exercise of freedom: a fundamental freedom both for the individual (freedom of expression, the right of information) and for the community (the right of each citizen to be informed). The decriminalization of crimes against honour would not, of course, lead in any way to a reduction in protection for the injured person, anything else: as Amendment 01.100 would foresee, the valorization of measures such as damages, civil liability from unlawful Article 2043 of the Civil Code, an adequate correction, directly satisfatic for the offended person, would, if anything, result in an increase in the level of protection granted to him, according to the paradigm of reparational justice. In this sense, among other things, the criminal doctrine has been pronounced almost unanimously for a long time, noting how the criminal penalty in the field of press crimes is now inappropriate, recalling as a significant example the specific English discipline that, above all in the light of our 2013 novella, ends with the absorption in civilistic measures of compensation and reparation every kind of sanctioning reaction of the order. Significantly, the amendment in question provides, in fact, as parameters for the judicial determination of damages, the seriousness of the offense, even desumable by the degree of diffusion of the magazine, and the remedial effect of the correction, which can also be requested by the same journalist, in the case of inertia of the director, or in any case of the person responsible for transmission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to explain a few of the amendments that are simply proposed: that defamation is not convenient. In fact, if the penalty for defamation in financial terms - because we rightly want to abolish prison - is in some cases less than the benefit that a newspaper, however recorded, has in terms of more listening, more copies sold, more access in the case of the Internet, it does not seem to me that it is a fair approach. Specifically, I would like to refer to amendment 1.25, which proposes to amend paragraph 1 of the new article 13 of the Press Act, where it is said that the fine is up to 10,000 euros for defamation committed by means of the press and radio television, and can exceed 10,000 euros only if the offence consists in the attribution of a certain false fact whose spread took place with the awareness of its falseness. Some say that in such cases the dole must always be foreseen, but here we are in a particular situation. To say that someone has committed an infamous crime - and each one thinks of the most infamous crime I can imagine, perhaps attributed to himself - is not a small thing; it is not that one can do it, unless he is sure otherwise: he should do it only if he is sure that that person has committed that crime. It would be like saying, passing from the journalist to the surgeon, that the surgeon who amputates a healthy limb is condemned only if he was aware that that limb was healthy; if instead he did it out of carelessness, carelessness, or for who knows what other bizarre reason, patience, he amputated a healthy leg: on the other hand, he was not really sure that it was healthy. It doesn't seem to me a proper approach on the part of a newspaper to take famous personalities of politics, of the show, of sport to attribute them a little 'offenses (but of those tough, not offenses recently!) to increase your sales, collect hundreds of thousands of euros and then, since you don't have certainties (maybe the crime was really committed), at most you put into account a cost of 10,000 euros each item. It does not seem to me a way to encourage good journalism and to protect the dignity of people. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during my speech I will present amendments 1.4 and 1.33. Amendment 1.4 aims to introduce two major innovations in the right of rectification. The first provides that the damaged person is allowed to use the right of correction, immediately knowing who and how he can turn to express this right, as this is made explicit within the appropriate section "contacts" usually used that must be placed on the front page of the newspapers and on the home page of the websites of the online newspapers registered in accordance with Article 5. More specifically, on the front pages of newspapers, on-line newspapers and radio and television will have to indicate the name of a person responsible for the corrections to take charge of the requests and ensure that they are justified. If then the newspaper does not publish the correction then here is the second novelty: a more rapid and simplified procedure is introduced that introduces the possibility to address immediately and free of charge to the AGCOM that will play a role of referee regarding the validity of the requests for correction, without prejudice to the competence of the ordinary judicial authority to protect the subjective rights. Thanks to this amending intervention, this agency is finally given a concrete function that will allow to have quick answers to the subjects who consider themselves injured by what is reported by a press body. All in up to seven days. Moreover, it would be a way to reduce the burden of courts because many could choose this alternative route faster and cheaper. In short, if we really want to keep the AGCOM standing, let it work more and better. Amendment 1.4 balances the freedom of the press and the protection of the goodness of everyone, which also means having a swift response to the request for correction. Such procedures, moreover, are provided for in other States, for example in France. Let us take an example, for once, from those who prescribe good practices in their own system and apply them also in Italy! On Amendment 1,33, how can we suppress the investigations and investigations of a journalist and prevent citizens from knowing the truth? In North Korea, to some of you so dear, they know how to do it. However, there are more modern devices to implement preventive censorship and intimidation. These are only apparently less perverse and repressive instruments. One of these, for example, may be to bring a lawsuit against a journalist by claiming millionaire compensation for the mere fact that an inquiry of his has wanted to shed light on the non-clear business of a multinational. This was done, for example, by the sixth world oil group for business (ENI) which, with 145 pages of complaint, accused Report, Milena Gabanelli's program, of having damaged its image by an investigation in December 2012 asking for compensation, even of 25 million euros. Let it be clear, those who feel defamed have every right to protect themselves, but it is clear that in some cases the goal is another: a clear attempt to intimidate. The technical term is "querela temeraria" (the term "querela temeraria"), an action of barrier often carried out in the civil forum towards a journalist to dissuade him from continuing his investigation and, of course, to discourage other reporters from taking on the same topic. But this is not only true of journalists known as the Gabanelli. It is the fate of many freelance or contract journalists. For God's sake, I repeat, if it had not been fully understood: if an article has defamatory content, the person responsible must realize it. It should be stressed, however, that many sentences of condemnation highlight the responsibilities of those who have named the article and of those who have decided to place it on the page, two things that do not compete with any collaborator outside the editorials, to which no responsibility is at all responsible for the inadequacy of the lately published correction. Therefore, I believe it is essential to introduce mechanisms to discourage the fearful complaint and the disproportionate claims for damages, even directly promoted in the civil forum, which are all too often aimed at intimidating journalists. Amendment 1.4 excludes the possibility for the publisher to take advantage of the freelance journalist or otherwise not hired and this is because he is given all the time and the way to view the content of the report well in advance, assessing the presence of any defamatory content. The publisher, on the other hand, has the strongest shoulders of the individual journalist to face any reckless lawsuits. In short, a rule of common sense and protection of a weak category and freedom of information. I hope, then, with all my heart, that you will accept this amendment and that perhaps, with this small step of civilization, this House will help the country to rise from the bleak 49th place that, in the matter of freedom of the press, the International Non-Governmental Freedom House assigned us in 2014. Thank you. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u36	Mr President, I rise to explain the sub-amendment I tabled to Amendment 1,600 by the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, which was announced a few minutes ago in this House and which proposes a different regulation of the competence for the crime of defamation committed by means of telematic communication. Well, I believe that the rapporteur can propose and table amendments in this House when the subject has not already been discussed, dismissed and decided in the Commission. The subject of which the amendment deals, to be honest, has already been the subject of a resolution by the Commission on justice, with that wording now before the House and adopted in the text dismissed by the Commission itself. I believe that the rapporteur in this House should represent the Commission, so Senator Filippin does not represent herself here, but the whole Commission and, in my opinion, has the burden of presenting to the House what the Commission has decided, except for those amendments which are not part of the debate developed and the Commission's decisions dismissed. I realize that with a sub-amendment I cannot ask for the rapporteur's amendment to be deleted, because it prevents me from doing so under the Rules of Procedure, but it is also true that, after having already taken a majority in the Commission a certain choice, we come to the House and we find ourselves with the amendment of Senator Filippin announced earlier and that, as I said, we cannot delete it by regulation. That is why I have tabled a sub-amendment which in some way leaves room for Senator Filippin's thesis of the last moment and, at the same time, also leaves room for the determinations of the Justice Commission. I would also like to say that what I envisaged in the sub-amendment - that is, the alternative jurisdiction between the judge at the place of registration of the newspaper and that of the place of residence of the person offended in the case of defamation committed by means of telematic communication - mutuals the principle from the same Article 18 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It is true, I will be told that this article concerns civil matters, whereas in the case that we are examining we are moving in the criminal field, but it is a general principle that can be easily borrowed. We know that Article 18 of the Code of Civil Procedure states that when the defendant has no residence, no residence, no domicile in Italy, the jurisdiction is that of the plaintiff's forum. Now, I ask myself: if an online magazine has not been registered in Italy and the subject of offense lives in Italy, how can he assert his own reasons? Maybe going to America or a foreign state? In the event that there is no registration in Italy of that magazine, with my sub-amendment 1,600/1 I have foreseen that the competence may be of the offence person's forum. But my first comment remains, in fact, that the rapporteur is able to table an amendment on an issue which has been discussed in the Commission and which has been decided with a specific, precise and precise choice. I do not believe that this is in the powers of the rapporteur, who must never forget that he represents the entire Commission in this House and not just himself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u37	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u40	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I just want to call on the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, to reformulate amendment 1,600: already only on the basis of the purely technical issues that Senator Falanga has just stated, but also because we cannot understand why it indicates the place of registration of the newspaper and not the place where the offended person resides. We must do the interests of the citizens, not the warheads. It is the citizen who is offended. Why does a citizen who, for example, resides in Bolzano, if the online newspaper is based in Palermo or Rome, have to go to Palermo and Rome and bear the costs? Let the journalists and the newspapers, with their lawyers, move to the place where the offended person resides. This would also fill that gap that Senator Falanga mentioned earlier. In fact, if the warhead were registered abroad, the offended would not have the opportunity to receive any kind of satisfaction and justice. If we rephrase amendment 1,600, adding at the end, instead of the words: "of the place of registration of the head office," the words: "of the place of residence of the person offended" would be of interest to the people offended and not to the newspapers. I realize that there may also be different interests in the field and that having friendly newspapers is a pleasure, but we are here to legislate for the sovereign people and not for the newspapers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u43	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not know whether or not the rapporteur can table an amendment on a regulatory basis contrary to the Commission's work. I can't find a definite answer. A response which, however, can come from the whole of our Rules of Procedure. Personally, I believe that the rapporteur, and I say this very humbly, represents the Commission because, if it were not, it would allow the rapporteur, as a single Member of Parliament, to table individual amendments outside the time allowed for all other Members. In other words, I would like to say that the rapporteur is in a position to table amendments which are out of date, in general terms, to try, by way of a verse, to make up for certain errors, that is to say, to bring the innovations that may arise from a debate within the Commission. This is a regulatory problem which - I must say the truth - may have its importance, but which, from my personal point of view, can be overcome in a completely different way, with the help - evidently - of Senator Filippin. Senator Filippin knows perfectly well how this particular point has been addressed in the Commission and how the idea of confirming the text that had been fired by the House prevailed, precisely for the reasons that were put forward first by Senator Falanga and - then - by Senator Barani. These are reasons that are even more important in the case of telematic communications than those of the newspapers. First of all, because, as has been mentioned, the place of registration may be different from that typically Italian and because, unlike newspapers, it is difficult to find the place of registration for newspapers or anything else similar is located on the Internet. This basically obliges the offended party or those who consider themselves injured by a telematic communication, to activate research and - therefore - to face economic costs in order to assert their rights in the courts. That was the reason why we, well aware of what was planned for the press law, but not even for the television law, had imagined to confirm the arrangement that came from the House. I am referring to encouraging, with respect to something very abstract and smoky, the needs of the individual citizen and also the possibility for the citizen to take legal action without excessive expenditure on his own economic possibilities. That is why I would ask Senator Filippin, regardless of regulatory issues, to consider the possibility of withdrawing this amendment. Firstly, because, as Senator Filippin knows, it is in stark contrast to a point that has been dealt with, distorted and voted in the Commission. Secondly, because, as is easy to understand to all, allowing judicial protection in the seat of the offended person is certainly a lesser expense for the offended person than having to defend himself in a place far from his place of residence (think of lawyers and everything that follows from it). I am well aware that this rule favours the holders of the newspapers or similar that can give rise to telematic communications, but I must tell the truth: in the balance of interests between those who control the newspaper and the subject who is offended by a telematic communication, I believe that the legislator can only favour the individual citizen. These are the reasons why, very quietly, I would ask Senator Filippin to withdraw her amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u46	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, this point has also been discussed in the Commission. With regard to the profiles that were highlighted earlier, our Group believes that it is in the prerogatives of the rapporteur to take account of the debate that has been held and to ensure that the House can return to some of the issues. Otherwise, it would simply be those texts which were adopted by means of shared amendments. There must also be open discussions in the Commission in this House, and this is a debate which must be virtuous and positive and capable of representing the sovereignty of this House. As far as the substance is concerned, however, Mr President, the issue that has been raised is not a pilgrim issue and has been assessed. However, I would like my fellow Members to weigh another consideration: traditional newspapers are called into question at the place of publication. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: traditional newspapers respond to the place where they are published. Creating, then, an Italy at different speeds and asking for something different from the registered online newspapers, which are the subject of our reflection on the crime of defamation, constitutes a disparity that I think our country, modern and advanced, must no longer bear. The proposal must certainly be evaluated, but putting in line traditional newspapers and online newspapers seems to me to be an understandable, logical element of basic justice in access to jurisdiction, which, among other things, also presents clear constitutional profiles that should be evaluated. The right to the protection of the offended person is there and is acted as is done against traditional newspapers. That is why, also on the substance, this is a serious proposal, which can be accepted and can avoid a conflict that I think has no reason to be.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u49	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not think it is a matter of substance, since you have only now been aware of the facts: this is a rule, approved by the House of Members, discussed in the Commission and approved in the same text. I believe that the Rules of Procedure are sufficient: the rapporteur can table amendments in this House with the permission of the President; I think that the President's permission should not be granted in a case such as this, of consistent deliberation by the Commission in relation to the text which was fired by the House, after a long debate, as has been recalled by Senators Lumia and Palma. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to consider not allowing Amendment 1,600.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u50	Senator Caliendo, Amendment 1,600 has actually already been approved and discussed. I think it remains a question of opportunity. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, whether she wishes to confirm her amendment or not. Re-discussing what has been discussed in the Commission is, however, a sovereign right of this House. From this point of view, therefore, I am making it a matter of opportunity, on which I leave an opinion to the rapporteur and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u51	Mr President, I confirm that a very careful and thorough debate has taken place on this point in the Commission. However, as rapporteur, I believe that the reasons that prompted me to table this amendment, i.e. not to create unequal treatment between traditional and online newspapers, which will presumably become an increasingly important means of communication and information, are prevalent on any other consideration. I therefore maintain Amendment No 1,600.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u52	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u53	I address the Assembly's greeting to a delegation from the Indonesian Ministry of Transport, accompanied by the Chairman of the Investment Coordination Committee and the Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia, who follows our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u54	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u55	Mr President, I call for amendment 01.100 to be withdrawn. There is already a law, which we have just mentioned, No. 67 of 28 April 2014, which has already delegated to the Government for the decriminalization of the slander and of some minor crimes, among which could easily extend defamation. I believe, however, that the jump from the elimination of a prison sentence and its replacement by a financial penalty, with the complete decriminalization, is premature at this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u56	Therefore, in the event of a failure to withdraw, the opinion is clearly against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u57	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 1,100 is declared to have fallen due to the absence of the proposer. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against, Amendments Nos 1,101, 1.4, 1,102 and 1.6, because these are always requests to put conditions to the correction, which I cannot accept for the reasons I have explained in reply. On Amendment 1,103 there is also a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it, simply because the wording of the amendment by Senator Caliendo increases the time for correction to a total of 10 days, when a complete correction is needed. I also call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,104. I am against this and call on the authors to withdraw amendment 1.13, always because the correction must be timely. On Amendment 1,105 there is also a call for withdrawal or an opinion against it, because Article 700 already provides for the order of publication. I ask the presenter to withdraw amendment 1,106 or I am against it, because it is not the judge who applies the administrative penalty; the same opinion applies to amendment 1,18, because in this case there is no limit to determining the possible compensation for the damage. The same reasoning applies to amendment 1.19; therefore the opinion is also the same. For amendment 1,107, I would like to call for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion would be against it. I am against this and call on the authors to withdraw Amendment No 1,108 because it extends the limitation period. I call on Senator Casson to withdraw amendment 1,109, because this is the repetition of Article 185 of the penal code. I am in favour of Amendment No 1.21. On the contrary, I am opposed to this and I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 1.25, because the basic text is clearer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1,110 has been withdrawn. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. On amendment 1,28, identical to amendment 1,111, if the authors agree, I would propose the following rewording: 13" in paragraph 2, replace the words: "and, in the case referred to in Article 99, second paragraph, number 1, of the same code" by the following: "and, in the case referred to in Article 99, fourth paragraph" I'll explain. This is about the duplication of the ancillary sanction of the ban that I would move, if the proposers agree to accept this reformulation, to the cases of repeated specific recurrence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, do you accept the rewording of amendment 1.28? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, I accept the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Casson, do you accept the rewording of amendment 1,111?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to speak on three amendments that I have tabled. On amendment 01.100 a call for withdrawal has been made, which I welcome, while noting that the delegation law 28 April 2014, n. 67, provided for and provides for the decriminalization of minor crimes that, however, concern the slander and not the defamation. Moreover, I realize the perplexity and probably the lack of sufficient maturity of the country in order to decriminalize the whole matter of defamation, so I welcome the rapporteur's call for withdrawal. With regard to Amendment No 1,109, for which there is an invitation to withdraw, I welcome this call. With regard to Amendment No 1,111, for which a rewording has been proposed, this is a compromise solution. Rather than fall into the present situation, as they were in the text which came to this House for consideration and vote, the rapporteur proposes a middle way. So I accept this as a middle solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u59	I call on the rapporteur to conclude her opinions on the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to make an invitation to withdraw, or otherwise I am against, Amendments 1.30, 1.112, 1.113, 1.33 and 1.114. Finally, I am opposed to sub-amendment 1,600/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u61	I am in agreement with the rapporteur, Mr President, also with regard to the proposals for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u64	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u65	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Amendment 01.100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "and without comment," ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,102 and amendment 1.6. are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u67	Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, unfortunately there is a vote going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u68	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It's okay, Mr. President. It is clear that the Rules of Procedure apply only to one part. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, we cancel the vote; you speak and then we will resume the vote. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the text in the Commission says that corrections are made in accordance with Article 32-d of the single text of audiovisual and radio media services. Now, of this article 32-d of Legislative Decree No 177 of 2005 nothing is specified, but it is recalled in full. I was able to propose, having tabled a number of amendments to this draft law, which were accepted in the Commission, that the text be replaced by the following words: In accordance with the manner and timing of the application of the conditions laid down in Article 32-d (...) (as set out in the standard). After that, since there has been no time limit for the correction, I propose to introduce the 10-day deadline; within 10 days the correction must be made. I do not understand why the opinion is against this: it is the same rule that has been adopted in the Commission, with a specification on the conditions set out in Article 32-d.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u69	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.106. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "30,000 euros." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.19 and Amendment 1,107 are therefore excluded. I call on Senators Stefani and Centinario to vote by a simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.108. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,109 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,110 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.28 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, identical to amendment 1 111 (text 2), tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.30, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,112, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,600/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u72	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am only speaking to reiterate what Senator Lumia said earlier. The rapporteur's amendment 1,600 is needed to put the system in order. It combines the skills of online newspapers with the situation already in force for all publications of both printed paper, periodicals and daily newspapers. It's about TV and radio news. It would be very disordered from the point of view of order of the system that there was an unjustified exception for the telematic communication newspapers. I think it would be useful to vote in favour of that amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u75	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to President Zanda's words. I don't know what kind of order he's referring to. I think that the main order to which all of us must respond is the citizen's interest. And the citizen's interest is certainly represented more effectively by a facility that guarantees him access to his possible defence - it is clear - in the jurisdictional forum linked to his residence, that is, where it is easier for that citizen to go and defend himself. It would be different to accept the idea for newspapers or broadcasts based abroad: if the competent forum is that of abroad, it is clear that it will be almost impossible for that citizen - I believe - to be able to make use of the recourse to justice; he should be able to obtain it in the competent offices, which are those of the forum of his residence and of the Italian judiciary. That is what I would like to reiterate and we ask that we be able to clarify with the Government through the presentation of our amendment. I think it is important that we can go further on this issue: of course I do not place any limits on any compositions and on the fact that we return to that text which the House had voted on, which guaranteed much more the right of the citizen and not that of the newspapers considered, among other things - this is the subject of this debate - the fact that the Internet scenario opens up, in which it is even more difficult for the citizen to obtain justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u78	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to endorse the amendment by Senators Falanga and Bonfrisco 1600/1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zin, your subscription is accepted. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1600/1, tabled by Senator Falanga and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the FI-Pdl XVII Group. Senator Palma points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u79	Senator Palma, the electronic system reported as a result that the Senate does not approve. There are 12 abstentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u80	That's right, ma'am. I wanted to speak for an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,600.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u81	I didn't understand. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,600. Please, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u82	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President, everything is questionable except mathematics of numbers. The figures, however - as it were - mark the importance of the issue, if it is true that 114 votes have been cast on equal terms and that the amendment has not been adopted because of the abstentions. I would like to ask the House to pay some attention. Senator Lumia and President Zanda have made the following reasoning: we have changed the rule with reference to telematic communications to adapt it to what is foreseen for defamations through newspapers. We appreciate this effort of systematic harmony, but neither Senator Lumia nor President Zanda have told us that the standard for press defamation is more just and correct than the standard laid down by the House. From my personal point of view, the fairness and correctness of a rule are derived from the facilitation that is granted to citizens, who are weak in this case, to defend their rights against an aggression that comes from others. Then, to the senators I would like to ask a simple question: in the event that one of you should be offended by a telematic communication, having to activate researches, inevitably private, in order to understand what is the place of registration of the productive head of that telematic communication that is imagined to be detrimental of your interest, it would be more burdensome for you to entrust yourself to the care of the defender who lives in your own place of residence, or to address, for which one of you lives for example in Agrigento, to the lawyer who, by hypothesis, is in Trieste, because who knows for what strange venture that headboard has been recorded in Trieste? I give you these examples earthly evidently not because it does not have esteem and consideration of your abilities, but because often just earthly examples manifest in a clear way the rightness or the unrighteousness of a norm. To foresee that the taxable person of a defamatory telematic communication should have the opportunity to defend himself as it happens, even if in an alternative way, for television systems, at his place of residence instead of having to arm a defensive system very far from home, with what follows from the expense, I believe it is a more just norm. And it is no coincidence - Mr Lumia and Senator Filippin have acknowledged this - that in the Commission this point has been dealt with and resolved in the sense in which we had solved it, precisely because we had paid attention, even though we were aware of the interests that could be behind a different imagination of competence, because we thought that we had a rule that could help citizens. That's all we're talking about. The question that I ask you is very simple: in your law-making, do you think it is more useful to legislate in the interests of individual citizens or of newspapers, whatever they may be, which surely have greater power than the citizens? And do you think, once the incorrectness of a norm is established (I refer to the one on defamation by means of the press), to continue to adapt to that error and, even for telematic communications, to introduce a rule that is to increase for the country? I understand the lightning on the road to Damascus, but I wonder why this point has gone through the Commission essentially unanimously, and then, who knows what electrocution, in fact, is imagined to be a different solution to the benefit of the newspapers and to the detriment of individual citizens. That is why the Forza Italia Group will vote against Amendment 1,600.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u85	Barani (GAL). Mr President, our Group will also vote against Amendment 1,600, not only for the technical reasons well provided by the President of the Commission, Palma, but also because the intervention of the group leader Zanda was a statement of justification. He wanted to justify himself to the Italians, apologizing a priori: they do it to standardize the newspapers and online to the other traditional newspapers. In doing so, we are justified by saying: "We know that Italians will have to bear costs, that they will not be able to defend themselves, and that therefore there is no guarantee but only interest in the newspapers". This cannot be the case: one cannot listen to a Leader of a party who wants to govern this country to apologize in advance for what it is doing: while knowing that it is a mistake, he continues to do so. I call on the rapporteur to reconsider this and above all I call on the Government, in the person of Ferri here, to think about the difficulties that all citizens will have, after the adoption of this rule, to be able to obtain justice, to have a guarantee of the offense they have received, because they will not be satisfied with this. I really urge you to reconsider because we are doing damage. It is as if, during the period of the vectors, you want to continue to go in the carriage because our ancestors went in the carriage. It is time for this country to be modernised from this point of view too, and that is why our Group will vote strongly against the amendment and once again invite the rapporteur and the government to reflect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u88	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Mr President, I realize that this is a very complicated matter, so much so that the outcome of the vote on this point is a reflection of the concerns that we also had during the debate in the Commission. However, I would like to make a few notes, because there is a fundamental misunderstanding also in language. We are talking about the crime of defamation through the press and not the civil litigation: the part that is involved is not a company, an editorial newspaper, but a journalist, a single citizen who responds in a personal way in front of the law. Therefore, concerns about the protection of the injured citizen should also apply to the accused citizen, but not necessarily guilty. The latter in fact - perhaps who makes it the judicial chronicle, which is the case in which most frequently he incurs a lawsuit - for the same judicial fact that concerns, we put, an investigation of Tangentopoli in Lombardy involving Calabrian characters, one would see accused by a Lombard gentleman for an article and by a Calabrian gentleman for another article on the same fact, so that single person, maybe freelance, maybe collaborator paid in pieces, would be forced to make the tour of Italy. I believe that the two interests are equal - that of the alleged offended party and the alleged guilty party - and should therefore be aligned with what is the legislation in force. In fact, we might also have another paradox: a single article, if published on a paperhead, has as certain competence that of the printing site of that newspaper; instead published on the same online magazine, recorded with gerenza, has another competence. This is not possible and is not acceptable: we would be faced with a chaos, not so much in defence, but above all in the organization of work, particularly in the organization of work, this yes, because also the right of defense by the journalist who is accused of defamation, not always rightly, must be protected. I therefore believe that this rule, which is not perfect - I understand - because the paper paper is a piece of paper while the virtual is something else, still needs adjustments, but I believe that this can be a start to a mediation on a debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u91	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, to be honest, we have been studying and debating this point in the Commission for a long time, and the Commission has decided in accordance with what the House has already decided. So, as we abstained on the sub-amendment, we see no reason to vote for an independent initiative taken by the rapporteur in this House, and we will therefore abstain on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u94	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am only speaking to respond to Senator Capacchione who, in my opinion, said that it was incorrect. The senator referred to the journalist, and therefore to the person who created the news, and protects this position (and it is quite understandable, considering the professional activity of Senator Capacchione). Obviously this is not relevant, relevant, in this case, because competence should not be identified in the place of residence of the journalist or the journalist: just as the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, imagined the change with the amendment presented, it is in fact to be identified in the place where the online magazine that published the news is located. It is therefore not relevant to think that we want to protect the position of the person who may be accused of defamation because his residence in this case has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u97	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I entirely subscribe to the speech by Senator Capacchione, of whom I share everything: reasoning, explanations and everything else. That is exactly why I proposed the amendment. However, what we are considering is an important measure, on which we need as much sharing as possible, which is why I withdraw Amendment 1,600. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u98	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u99	Mr President, Amendment 2107 proposes the repeal of Article 278 of the penal code, which concerns the offence to the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic, an anachronistic rule that provides for a very heavy penalty (from one to five years of imprisonment) for a crime dated and the result of past times, monarchies or authoritarian regimes. Moreover, I would like to point out that the President of the Republic himself expressed his support in 2009 for Parliament's decision on this matter on its own, saying: "Judge citizens what is freedom of criticism, and what is not, towards institutions that should be kept out of the political and media mix" Also in view of this, I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of amendment 2.107, of which Senator Ciampolillo is the first signatory, which provides for the repeal, sic et simpliciter, of the offence of offense to the President of the Republic. I think the timing is right. Among other things, indirectly, the President of the Republic himself has made known (although he does not have the right to give an opinion on this matter) that he feels it is right to refer the matter back to Parliament's readiness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u100	Mr President, I would just like to say that I withdraw Amendments 2,101 and 2,14. It is in fact a question of revoking the Commission's examination of the responsibility for the director's fault, given that the content of the latter has already been included in other amendments and, therefore, in the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u101	Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to amendment 2.106, which is of particular importance: this is the possibility of abolishing the crime of self-reliance on the President of the Republic. We know that a debate is also taking place on this subject with reference to current events involving some of the members who have been put to trial for the crime of cowardice against the Head of State. The President of the Republic himself, in 2009, urged at a press conference at a public meeting to express an assessment of the validity or not of the existence of the crime of cowardice to the Head of State (which then requires the permission of the Minister of Justice for prosecution) had to say that it was an issue that could and should have faced Parliament, if it had felt so. I have long tabled a draft law with similar content to that of the amendment, which seeks to delete this crime, bearing in mind that the offences and insults against the Head of State would still be punishable by the normal legislative instruments, since the abolition of that crime certainly does not mean that the possibility of outrage or of offense prevails: ordinary instruments would remain. The amendment that I propose, in addition to connecting with events that are still under discussion in the political and journalistic world, as well as with judicial events that have been dragging on for years, with references to the final decision, also raises a further question, that of introducing a kind of condido. In fact, every day we witness insults and controversy, even resounding, in which, however, the various Ministers of Justice, who should authorise the proceedings, do not give their permission. We do not understand then why, while in some cases the judicial process has been initiated, in others - which occur every day - in the absence of the authorized intervention of the Minister of Justice, everything remains suspended, and then there really is the impunity of outrage and defamation. I believe that this can be a parliamentary opportunity because, through the adoption of this amendment (without prejudice to the guarantees for all and therefore also for the highest positions of the State), what appears at this point to be a harnessing, a surplus of measures, which are then used with mysterious discretion, if we consider that even in these days many facts would perhaps deserve to be pursued as cowardice, while we have not seen permissions, nor the initiation of procedures by the competent authorities. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this amendment which, in my opinion, has a particular urgency and usefulness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u102	Mr President, I have also stressed this point in general debate: it seems to me that Amendment 2,105 contains a common sense rule on which I would invite the representative of the Government and the rapporteur to reflect. It can happen - and today unfortunately happens often, we have heard it also from the rapporteur - that someone has the misfortune (any citizen, entrepreneur, professional, parliamentary) to end up in the circuit of blogs, that then that information is taken up and that, once the oxen have escaped from the stable, it is very difficult to go to recover situations of offense, of insult, of attribution of certain facts in the extermination - alas - current spread of these instruments. We propose this. Today the sites are registered at the National Research Council of Pisa (and therefore it is possible to identify the site where these statements that constitute crime have been expressed), but in this tide it is the citizen who must go to find out if there is something slanderous and offensive about it and must report to the director of that site to remove the claims in question. With Amendment 2,105 we are asking that, within 24 hours (which can become 48 hours), if serious, slanderous statements appear on a site and constitute a crime against a citizen, it must be the person responsible for that site to delete them. Because the site manager knows what appears on the site, he sees every day the statements that go online and that need to be removed. The subject, the victim of this circuit, how does he get to know it in good time, before the statements begin to circulate all over the world, and then have to chase all search engines trying desperately to erase statements that, once online, remain essentially to the acts and persecute it all their life? I therefore ask the rapporteur and the Government to give a positive opinion on Amendment 2,105 (or possibly to return to the Chamber) as this is an issue on which we have had so many requests from civil society, precisely because of an elementary principle of safeguarding the ability of each of us to defend ourselves against these aggressions: not only when we realize it, but also by taking responsibility for those who direct these sites to be him, a leading party, within a reasonable time, to remove these statements which constitute a crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u103	I call for the withdrawal of amendments 2.100, 2.2, 2.102 and 2.103, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment 2.105, which has just been explained by Senator Giovanardi, I have already said in my reply that, although I agree with the need to put in place a discipline concerning the world of the Internet and, in particular, the world of blogs, I believe that this cannot be the place where we can deal with this discipline, but that we need a reform or an organic intervention (which requires time and meditation) and that this can happen through that path, already identified in the Chamber of Deputies, with the beginning of the debate on the so-called Magna Carta of the Internet. I call for the withdrawal of Senator Gasparri's amendment 2.106. I would point out, both to Senator Gasparri and to Senator Ciampolillo, who has tabled amendment 2107 of similar nature and content (i.e. the repeal of the crime of cowardice to the Head of State, provided for in Article 278 of the Criminal Code), that both draft laws at their signature have been discussed in the Justice Commission. On the contrary, the debate is already over and the deadline for tabling amendments has already been set. The discussion and vote on such an important rule, the repeal of the crime of cowardice to the Head of State, must be carried out in the appropriate fora. And this seat is that of the discussion of the bills presented by Senators Gasparri and Ciampolillo. I call on the proposers to withdraw amendments 2.109, 2.11, 2.12, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u104	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. I would just add that, with regard to amendments 2106 and 2107 (on which the opinion is against, like that of the rapporteur), the offence of offense to the President of the Republic is already interpreted restrictively by the jurisprudence and already meets a limit in the right of criticism. With regard to amendment 2.105, on which Senator Giovanardi also spoke, it, as the rapporteur said, raises a reasonable question which, however (I have also taken note of the term modified by Senator Giovanardi, from 24 to 48 hours, which is one of the problems) presupposes, among other things, in addition to what Senator Filippin said, also the amendment of legislative decree No 231 of 8 June 2001. In fact, these are legal persons and, therefore, it is also necessary to intervene on the discipline of legislative decree n. 231. These points remain, and for this reason the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u107	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u108	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request was supported) Amendment 2,100 has fallen due to the absence of the proposer. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,101 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,104 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator D'Ascola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.106, identical to amendment 2.107.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u111	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as Senator Filippin has already said, the draft law on the repeal of the crime of cowardice to the President of the Republic is in the process of being dealt with in the Justice Commission. The stage of the general debate has been closed and next Thursday, if I recall correctly, the stage of tabling amendments will be closed. As the subject is absolutely legal (so we do not need the opinions of the Budget Committee), we can proceed quietly and quickly to the vote, whatever it may be. This is obvious. Having said that, I would like to represent both Senator Gasparri and Senator Ciampolillo with the opportunity to withdraw these amendments. It is clear that, if there were to be a vote against by the House, the Commission could only take note of this and - I would add to this request for referral - the rapporteur herself expressed her opposition to the opinion by not going into the substance of the matter, but by saying, in my view, quite rightly, that there is some kind of extraneousness in the matter. In fact, there is no doubt that we are dealing with the crime of defamation - a crime against honour - and not a crime against the personality of the State. Therefore, for the reasons I have said, I would like to invite both Senator Gasparri and Senator Ciampolillo to withdraw the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, Senator Gasparri, do you accept the invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u112	Mr President, I do not believe that the rapporteur's intervention can lead to any evidence that, in the event of an amendment being voted on and a possible negative outcome, would have such a preclusive effect in the Commission on justice. This, based on the same arguments as Senator Filippin used. The reasons for his opinion against it seem to us that they were not based on this. The fact that the Commission's work on repealing Article 278 of the Criminal Code is already well advanced would not be affected - in the humble opinion of the speaker - by a possible vote against Amendment 2.107, which might, in the abstract, be the subject of doubts as to formal consistency with the matter we are dealing with. I would therefore like to reject this dreaded fear of President Palma. The 5 Star Movement Group does not withdraw amendment 2.107, it being understood that, in our view, a possible negative vote by the Assembly would not have any consequences in the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to respond in particular to Senator Palma's request. I cannot fail to take account of the fact that the matter is sensitive (we talk about the crime of cowardice to the Head of State and I do not repeat the things I have said before), that everyone, even the highest institution, has entrusted this issue to Parliament. This is an incidental reflection: it is, in fact, an amendment proposed to the law on defamation. To put the issue of cowardice in an amendment to a bill such as this is not improper, because the matter is absolutely congruent. Having tabled a draft law on this subject for some time (there are also other groups), I note that the President of the Commission and the rapporteur have reiterated what I already know, namely that the debate on the measure is in advanced definition. Since I want this rule to be approved, I have no interest in creating a particular controversy, given the delicacy of the matter as well. Therefore, in withdrawing amendment 2.106, I hope - and I say so in this Chamber so that it remains in the proceedings, and I also address the Presidency, which does not depend on this fact, but on collective responsibility - that then, in the Commission's headquarters, being a matter, in its delicacy, very simple (it has no cover problems, it has no costs, we will not have to chase Senator Azzollini for the opinion directly), the measure can be discussed. It's not an ad personam law. I quoted a statement from the Head of State of 2009: it is a general and ancient story, which then coincides with some stories. My colleagues who have tabled similar proposals cannot depend on my statement, but it would be logical to withdraw both amendments in order to urge the Commission to have a quick debate (but I am obviously speaking for myself and I cannot commit the others). I wanted to make a point of order, taking note of the words of the President of the Palma Justice Commission, who is well aware of the matter, and of the rapporteur, who has not expressed a specific hostility on the subject, but also trusting in the speed of the decision. I therefore welcome President Palma's call for the withdrawal of Amendment 2106 and I hope that this will facilitate a rapid decision. The Justice Commission is full of issues to be addressed: this matter, although delicate, is very simple in its decision and does not require theological discussions: one can be in favour or against, the issue is quite well known. I hope that my choice will be a source of encouragement to the Commission for its own assessments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 2106 is therefore withdrawn, while amendment 2.107 is maintained.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u116	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, just one clarification, because I believe that my words have been interpreted in a way that may not correspond to what I wanted to say. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that I attach to the vote of the House a preclusive effect with regard to the repeal of Article 278 of the penal code, which is quite different, since the amendment phase has been opened, compared to a reflection that the Commission will be able to make, in my view legitimately despite the vote of the Chamber, with reference to changes to the case or to the sanctioning aspect of the rule. I say this for the sake of clarity with regard to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u119	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if this amendment were to be put to the vote, I would be very uncomfortable. I have always reasoned against the ad personam laws, but also against the contra personam laws. Many of you know better than I do what we're discussing. And when, on the one hand, I hear Senator Gasparri arguing with the sword about the need to abolish crimes of opinion, on the other, I feel the discomfort of having participated, with some of you, in the center for the reform of the state for several years, discussing how to abolish crimes of opinion and, first of all, the crime of cowardice. President Palma said: if we were to vote against the abolition proposal today, we would indirectly vote against it in the Commission. I wonder, then, if it would be better for us to abstain if we were to reject the amendment but motivated by the need to deepen the issue in the Commission, otherwise I live a little Kafkian moment: on the one hand, Senator Gasparri supports the abolition of the crime of cowardice together with the 5 Star Movement and, on the other, the Democratic Party says that it is no longer done; something we have been discussing for twenty-three years. I therefore ask for a moment of resistance from everyone because haste does not help. A little while ago I had asked to revoke the authorization just because I imagined what was about to happen. I therefore appeal to all responsible people to have a moment of reflection on what we are doing. Personally, I would now vote in favour, because I always remember what President Napolitano has said in recent years, namely that if he had been responsible for the crime of cowardice he would have already been eliminated. However, today I wonder (remembering the teachings of Greek, at the Center for State Reform, although I don't have to remind you of them): are we still aware of the need to do this battle? I believe that Senator Buccarella should be convinced of this, so that we can vote on this matter as soon as possible in the Commission, otherwise, if we are to vote in this House, I believe that a vote of abstention is the best solution having the value of voting against but meaning, no more, no less, that it is appropriate to address this issue in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u122	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I believe that Senator Caliendo has highlighted the embarrassing situation that has arisen, and for me even more, as rapporteur for the measure that deals with the subject of cowardice and has already had the opportunity to express my opinion on it. Because we have robbed the blasphemy of the divinity, for those who believe it, a system that decriminals this crime and strikes with prison those who make vile a person I think is quite unbalanced. I am absolutely convinced that a balance needs to be struck. In this situation, however, we find ourselves in a situation in which the vote against this amendment (inevitable, because, as the President of the 2nd Commission said well, we are dealing with a speech that must be balanced instead), would be interpreted as a rejection of the principle of organically and civilly reviewing a given situation in 2014. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, if the amendment is maintained we will abstain, but abstention will not at all mean a statement contrary to the need to address this issue quickly in the Commission in order to find a balanced solution. Therefore, with these reasons, if the amendment is maintained, the New Right Centre announces its abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u125	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, there are many amendments in the Commission which seek to eliminate the crime of cowardice. Of course, President Palma and Senator Caliendo are right, when they say that the rejection of this amendment at this time, in the context of this measure, precludes the possibility of approval in the Commission of those deleted amendments. Then there are others who go to change the sanctions and therefore leave the crime alive. I would suggest, Mr President, that Senator Buccarella convinces himself of this exquisitely technical and regulatory aspect, that this amendment be put aside, giving Senator Buccarella the opportunity to reflect. In fact, he wants to repeal the crime of cowardice, but, leaving his amendment alive, he risks going against the decisions that are taken by him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, the last word is yours. Do you need time to think? Do you withdraw or do you not withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u126	Mr President, allow me to explain in ten seconds why I do not want to withdraw Amendment 2,17. First of all, because the first signatory is absent today; so those who can dispose of it in total unfortunately cannot speak today. I, on his behalf and also on behalf of the other signatories, as well as the entire Group, also have a bit of fun with the argumentative zigzag of my colleagues from Forza Italia and the centre-right. For us, far from being interested in contingent situations and maybe today dealing with a sentence of condemnation for that crime, this is a request that the Movement has been supporting for a long time; and it is present on a certain blog to you all very well known the opportunity to repeal that crime. So, the question at this point is very simple. Those who agree on the repeal of an anachronistic crime, the cowardice of the President of the Republic, which today provides for a penalty of one to five years (i.e. an unusual heaviness), today have the possibility, avoiding laborious work in the Commission, to vote yes; the amendment will thus become a text of law, of course. Those who oppose the repeal of the crime today have the option of voting no. I'm not saying anything new. It's a banality. I would like to stress that, in my humble opinion, at the level of regulating the work of the Commission Justice, that the Presidency of the Commission itself is wisely able to order, cannot be conditioned by a vote of the House, whatever it may be, even if it should be unfavourable (if colleagues on my left abstain, perhaps we will not reach the majority). It will be discussed again in the Committee on Justice; I see no regulatory foreclosure or - I must say, at this point - political, despite the arguments, apparently somewhat drawn up, by the other subscriber, Senator Gasparri, who withdrew his amendment. I think that there will be time and space in the Commission to analyse the point and to see how the majority will is achieved with regard to this crime, which would now be good if it were removed from our legal system, in the opinion of the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u129	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. The speeches are quite clear. We have found that a possible rejection of this amendment does not block the work of the Commission in terms which I have just allowed myself to express. Surely he would block them with reference to the repeal of the crime tout court. Mr President, I am well aware that it is up to the Presidency to assess whether the amendments are admissible or inadmissible, but I also know that these decisions are not final, because, melius re per pensa, they can be re-evaluated by the Presidency. So I wanted to put this problem to you: we are discussing a bill that reads . Changes to the law of February 8, 1948, n. 47,, which is the law on the press, the penal code and the code of criminal procedure in the matter of defamation, defamation by the media or by other means of dissemination, of insult and condemnation of the plaintiff, and going to see the text of the bill, all the articles are focused on the specific matter. Mr President, I would like to point out to you whether an amendment, which deals with a crime against the personality of the State, which, although for certain profiles, is similar to the cowardice, may or may not be involved in this matter. Where, for example, this should be the case, there should also enter the flag, the nation, the constitutional institutions, which are all crimes against the personality of the State. Mr President, I think that if you had the courtesy of paying some attention to whether or not this amendment is admissible, perhaps with your wisdom we could get out of this impasse. If this does not happen, it will go on as we agreed just now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you are calling on the Presidency to declare that an amendment that has already been accepted is inadmissible? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would never allow myself to make an invitation to the Presidency. I have merely pointed out to the Presidency a hypothesis of my own that, because of the extraneousness of the matter, the Presidency could declare that the amendment was inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u130	In view of the failure of Senator Buccarella to withdraw the amendment, I would point to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.107, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,108 has been withdrawn, while amendment 2,109 has fallen due to the absence of the proposer. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 3, on which a proposal for deletions and amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u131	I am against the amendments tabled, as well as the proposal to delete them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u132	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u135	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u136	However, the vote on the motion for a deletion must be taken by show of hands. I put to the vote the proposal to delete S3.100, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. It's not approved. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u137	Mr President, we have tabled Amendments Nos 4,100 and 4,103 with regard to civil disputes of a reckless nature and reckless lawsuits. As we have repeatedly said in this House, in the last few days, in the course of the general debate, it is a matter of the use of justice and its machine for intimidation towards journalists and, in particular, those who are part of small or medium-sized newspapers, who venture into investigations, investigations and investigations of news events that often have to do with high-level scandals in the world of economy, finance and politics. The tools of civil disputes and complaints are used in order to intimidate and prevent the journalist from doing his job of searching for news and information to be provided to citizens. Amendment 4,100, in particular, amends the regime of reckless disputes as set out in the Code of Civil Procedure, providing, first of all, for the applicability to civil judgments for damages and changing, with respect to the proposed text, the nature: to the publicistic sanction to be attributed to the fund of fines is added a reparative-reparatory measure to be paid equitably to the defendant in proportion to the sum requested by the plaintiff. Amendment 4.103 on reckless complaints follows the same path, with a similar approach.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u138	Amendment 4.102 is declared to have fallen due to the absence of the proposer. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u139	Mr President, for the reasons I have already expressed both in the presentation of the report and in the reply, I believe that the issue of the use of justice for intimidation purposes, in the case of defamation, is an issue to which politics owes a partial response. I therefore propose to the presenter of Amendment No 4,100, Senator Casson, the following rewording: 4. - (Amendment to Article 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure) - 1. The following shall be inserted after paragraph 1 of Article 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure: "1-a. In cases of defamation committed by means of the press or radio-television, where there is evidence of bad faith or gross negligence of the person who acts in civil proceedings for compensation for the damage, at the defendant's request, the court, by the judgment rejecting the application, may order the plaintiff, in addition to the costs referred to in this Article and referred to in Article 91, to pay in favour of the applicant for a sum in an equitable manner.' In the event of acceptance, my opinion is, of course, in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In the proposed reformulation, the final part of the amendment is therefore dismissed. The text would end with the words: "in an equitative way." FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. The other amendments consist of replacing the words "condemnation" with the words "condemnation" and the extension of the slander committed by the press also to the means of radio and television. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casson, do you accept the proposed reformulation? CASSON (PD). I reserve the right to speak on this. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. As far as Amendment 4101 is concerned, I believe that the issue of justice for intimidating purposes, and therefore the problem of the fearful issue, would, as it were, be solved by the adoption of Amendment 4,100. I would therefore ask Senator De Cristofaro and the other presenters to withdraw amendment 4101 precisely as a result of the favourable opinion on amendment 4,100, where reworded. Also in the case of amendment 4.103, I propose a rewording, similar to the previous one, in the sense of modifying the current text by replacing the words "the judge condemns the plaintiff" by the words: "the judge can condemn the plaintiff" and eliminating the final period of the text, stopping at the words: "in an equitative way".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u140	The Government agrees with the rapporteur on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u143	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify. If I understood correctly, I was given an opinion in favour of amendment 4,103, conditioning it to a rewording in the sense that the text stops at the words "in an equitative way." I would, however, like to represent you, Mr President, that this amendment has already been approved by this House, because Rule 3 which has been adopted by this House says: ==References====External links== The following shall be inserted after paragraph 3 of Article 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: "3-a. The court may also order the plaintiff to pay a sum of EUR 1,000 to EUR 10,000 in favour of the fines fund" So Amendment 4,103 would basically amend Article 3 in the text that has just been voted on by the House. I would add: after paragraph 3 of Article 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure... Let's talk about Article 4. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I understand that it is an amendment to Article 4, but what I want to say is that, even if it is an amendment to Article 4, it affects what has already been voted on by the House in Article 3; therefore, from my personal point of view, having already formed the resolution of this House, it could not be voted on. In any case, Mr President, I believe that I am right about this, because if I go to read the two texts, Amendment 4.103 states that, in ruling because the fact does not exist or the defendant did not commit it, the judge condemns the plaintiff, in addition to the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, to a sum in an equitable way: but in Article 3 I find similarly a sentence from 1,000 to 10,000 euros that I imagine is not related exclusively to the presentation of the complaint but to a presentation of the complaint that has, as it were, the connotations of recklessness, which is why we would basically go to punish the same fact, presentation of the complaint at risk, with two different sentences of a financial nature. And it is understood that, from my personal point of view, in Article 427 paragraph 3 -bis has already been inserted with the vote of Article 3 and therefore I do not understand how the Assembly can now insert a new paragraph 3-a, after the resolution of Article 3, or insert a 4 -bis that inevitably collides with the deliberate of Article 3. Anyway, for me it's completely indifferent: I don't do any more lawsuits!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u146	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I have two answers, the first of which concerns Amendment 4,100. I note the proposals made by the rapporteur and the Government. I thought that once we started on the path of recognition of the gravity of the reckless quarrels and the reckless lawsuits, it would also be appropriate to draw the necessary conclusions from them. On the other hand, perhaps because one is afraid one does not know well what - probably of the novelty - one stops halfway, limiting what was a legitimate request on the part of those who receive and endure such a heavy abuse, such as the recklessness of a quarrel or a lawsuit, which could have a heavy impact on the activity of the journalist, which is protected, as we all remember, by Article 21 of the Constitution. However, if this small step can be useful, I have no problem accepting the call for reformulation of amendment 4,100. With regard to Amendment 4,103, I would first like to respond to the comments made by President Palma, pointing out that these are two different cases, because the rule that is to be included in Amendment 4,100 to Article 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the general approach and to a publicistic sanction to be applied to the fine fund. This is a different case: paragraph 3-a of amendment 4103 refers - I repeat, unfortunately, once again - to the recklessness, in this case of a complaint, and therefore there is provision for a sanction, or measure that is said to be, of a reparative-reparatory nature, which is paid not to the fund of fines but, equitatively, to those who have suffered the fearful complaint. It is therefore two different situations that need to be dealt with differently and that can also be next to each other, precisely because they change the nature of the sanction proposed in this case. However, I also welcome the rapporteur's and the Government's call for amendment 4,103; we stop halfway once again: little is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100 (text 2). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The subsequent amendments, as well as Article 4, are therefore excluded, as amendment 4,100 (text 2) replaces the article. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.100, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u148	Mr President, I would like to point out a need which I believe has become widely felt in Italy as well. If Italy is placed at the last places in international statistics regarding freedom of the press, not only is it, but also for this fact: it is the only country where professional secrecy is recognized only nominally. It is provided for in the law establishing the order, it is provided for in the code of criminal procedure but in the latter there is a paragraph that, in reality, leads to exclude the total application of professional secrecy only for this category because the other professions are recognized in full. Having touched on Article 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the version approved by the House of Deputies regarding the extension of the secret medium to advertisers, I would ask that it be extended in full and that, therefore, professional secrecy be total, as provided for by the whole category in other European countries and in all Western countries, starting from the United States to which we often refer without knowing exactly what the law on the press in the United States provides.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u149	The remaining amendments are set out. Colleagues, we must take a step back because we did not vote for the other amendments and Article 4 in the belief that amendment 4,100 (text 2) was a substitute for the article. In fact, the amendment concerns the amendment to Article 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, while amendment 4.103 (text 2) concerns the amendment of paragraph 3 of Article 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So, there is no foreclosure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u152	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I do not think that there is a foreclosure, partly because these are substitutions involving two different codes of procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The problem is whether or not the solutions are alternatives. CASSON (PD). Clearly not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u153	Excuse me, Senator Casson, Amendment 4,100 (text 2) provides for a replacement rule for Article 4; but also Amendment 4,103 provides for a replacement rule for Article 4. How can we vote on two such amendments? This is the technical problem that we had to overcome. The Presidency considered that, by voting on Article 4,100 (text 2) and then the choice of replacing Article 4 with the wording containing an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, the other replacement provided for in the amendment of 4,103, supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, was precluded. Article 4 cannot be replaced by two replacement amendments: that is why we have declared that both Amendment 4103 and the vote on Article 4 have been precluded once the replacement has been approved. I don't know if I could make the idea clear, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u154	The passage of a formal nature is clear, but it is clear that in the submission of amendments which follow each other, it is not possible to know in advance whether the previous amendment will be adopted and therefore becomes preclusive. At this point, the rapporteur could ask me to replace, in amendment 4.103, the words "replace the article" by the words "insert," after the article, the following:
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u155	Even in the case of amendment 4101, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro, where the words "replace" the article with the following "change" to the words "insert," after the article, the following "we could proceed to the vote of the amendment. We would therefore like both Amendment 4101 and Amendment 4103, with these amendments, and then consider whether to vote on Article 4. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u156	Mr President, it is precisely the proposal I wanted to make to Senators Casson and De Cristofaro to change the words'replace the article' by the words 'insert, after the article, the following...'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u157	Senator Casson, will you accept the rapporteur's proposal? CASSON (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What about you, Senator De Cristofaro? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u158	Senator Casson, after accepting the amendment of amendment 4.103 which provides for the replacement of the words "replace the article" by the words "insert," after the article, the following..." also accepts the rewording previously proposed by the rapporteur? CASSON (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We therefore vote on the amendment in the text proposed by Senator Filippin. I'm sorry, but it's a matter of putting some order into these things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u161	Montevecchi (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am, but I'm a neophyte, so I'm having a hard time understanding these passages. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Me too, look. Montevecchi (M5S). I understand and in fact I was expressing my solidarity indirectly. Let me get this straight. We voted on Amendment No 4,100, for which the rapporteur proposed a rewording, which was accepted; with the favourable opinion of the rapporteur and the Government, the amendment was adopted. Are we now putting Amendment 4,100 (text 2) back to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, that was approved. Montevecchi (M5S). All right, so the changes are extravote, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u162	No, the amendments were voted on because the amendment was voted on as reworded. Amendment 4,100 has been reworded and, once the rewording has been accepted, it has been voted and approved. There are now some amendments, which provide for a rewording of Amendments 4,101 and 4,103; in particular, it is a question of changing the words "replace" the article...... with the words "insert," after the article, the following...... and some further amendments proposed by the rapporteur to Amendment 4,103. I hope we've cleared it up. Montevecchi (M5S). All right, thank you, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.201 (already em. 4101), presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.0.200 (already em. 4.103 text 2), presented by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.102 has fallen due to the absence of the proposer. Amendment 4104 has been withdrawn. We shall resume the examination of Article 5 and the relevant amendments on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u163	I call for the withdrawal of amendment 5,100, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u164	I am in agreement with that rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u165	Senator Capacchione, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendment 5,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u166	Mr President, I accept the call for the rapporteur and the government to withdraw, but with an invitation. Compared to what I have said, the amendment on the need to intervene on the law-breaking between the law establishing the order and the Code of Criminal Procedure, also in the light of the European legal order, in anticipation of a non-impossible European sanction, I call on the Government to revisit the matter with regard to professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u167	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 5. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.100 and 5.0.101 are precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u170	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, the merits of this measure have already been expressed during the general debate. I just want to reiterate what the rapporteur said during her reply. This is a measure of a balanced nature. It is a measure that meets a demand for justice, which has also emerged in recent times and which brings us closer to the best of European legislation. In the same way, it also collects what has been done in other countries since the advent of this legislative change in important countries, where the penalty of imprisonment for the crime of defamation through the press has been exceeded by different forms, especially reparations. I would like to remind you of the fundamental balance of this text, which explains the reason for our vote, but which also responds to critics: on the one hand, those who believe that information is still gagging (or that we want to gag it) and, on the other hand, some public opinion more oriented towards the protection of citizens who claim that, by means of this measure, we do not offer citizens real protection. It is not true: the right to oblivion, as was mentioned; a more precise forecast of the right to rectification; the increase in financial penalties; the fact that a maximum penalty of 50,000 euros is provided when the offence is for the attribution of a specific and determined fact, which is evident that it is false: all this lays down in favour of greater protection of the citizen, also because we know how much sprung up, then, in fact, was the weapon of condemnation to the imprisonment, even if important episodes and that have been lived in some way even with annoyance from the public opinion have led to this measure. On the other hand, there are rules that protect the right to information (and that make the use of the complaint, the complaint and the claim for damages for intimidation more strongly punished) and that eliminate the penalty for imprisonment. In this balance between the reasons for the protection of the citizen and the reasons for the right to information, extended even when the offence takes place through the modern means of communication, lies the very reason of the law, but also the reason for our vote in favour. Therefore, I announce the favorable vote of the Civic Choice Group recalling in full the reasons already put forward and better developed in the general discussion on the merit of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u173	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I will be very brief to please the audience, which is quite tired. I do not want to enter the part of the critic who is such for the taste of critics, but, because Cicero said that history is a teacher of life, we must look back; since it is a matter that concerns the press, I asked myself if this type of measure (which is however sweet, modified and further complicated in some procedures, which are already provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure) does not serve, in this particular historical and political moment, to put a kind of bite to the press. It is legitimate, because if we had proposed or discussed this measure, not ten or twenty years, but only four or five years ago, I believe that most of the journalists who write in the newspapers, even online, would have been sentenced to the fines, which are very salty, whenever they adjective to the noun "Berlusconi" an agjective or a consideration. I, who come from the House, got to hear everything and more and read everything and more. Especially in some talk shows and in certain television shows, where certain journalists, like certain magistrates, acquired notoriety and subsequently political weight (because they punctually applied), said about cooked and raw. And I'm okay with that. In fact, I want to remind myself of what liberal philosophers ask: how can we organize political institutions so as to prevent bad men, or incompetent men, from causing damage to society? The answer is simple, it applies to journalists and to anyone within the democratic arena and, therefore, carries out the task of caring about public life. What is the answer of liberal thinkers? It is not important to know who is to be in charge (Platone, remember, imagined that it should be the philosophers, as more likely, good and disinterested), but it is important to know how to control who is in charge, that is, how to subject power to the most incessant and pressing criticism through the information and publication of facts that otherwise - you will allow me to say - would remain in the arcane empires of power, in the closed chambers, where those who hold the power arrogated the right not only to decide, but also not to inform public opinion. Moreover, the media, through social networks, have increased; I myself have been the subject - as, I believe, everyone in this House - of all sorts of accusations, of insults, of absentia for the simple fact that I am a Member of the Republic. It is good, therefore, to extend the protection of those who are insulted and defamed, of anyone who performs a public function or representative of someone or something, even if this insult and defamation takes place through the new tools that mass communication, taking advantage of modern technologies, makes available to the private citizen. However, you see, I will be an idealist who has little adherence to the reality in which he lives, but I remember that liberalism - I would like to remind the many liberals, who at least nominally say themselves such in this House - is essentially and in a synthetic way the limitation of power and the press, where power can be associative, is the only means of garrison of freedom that can denounce to the public what the power itself, even nested within the institutions, needs or intends to silence. You will say that we have softened the old prediction, preventing journalists from being imprisoned: of course, it is a sign of civilization. But does it seem logical - and I am not talking about Piero Ostellino, Paolo Mieli, Marco Travaglio, the pens that enjoy prestige and also adequate remuneration, but I am talking about the freelance, the precarious journalist, the one who is very often sent to be interested in phenomena that concern society, politics, institutions - to provide for defamation the penalty of fine up to 10,000 euros, when the old Law 147 of 1948 punished defamation with a maximum amount of the old 500,000 lire? Is it not the financial penalty a more unbearable sanction than the alleged prison sentence? I say "presumptuous" because it seems strange to me that in a country where it is often impossible to serve the sentence, journalists should do it. You will tell me that if a fact is false there is an increase of up to 50,000 euros, and it is right that it be corrected. Of course. But we are not always in a position to distinguish white from black (I remind myself that the truth Pontius Pilate had it in front of him but he did not know how to recognize it). So, I imagine a whole series of captivating interpretations to put the bite to those who are more impulsive, bold and not subjugated to the other conditioning that the Italian press underlies: the great economic potentates. Tell me, except "Il Fatto Quotidiano" and some other newspaper, if in your opinion the political and editorial lines of the Italian press are not characterized and conditioned by the economic potentates that finance the newspapers. We will then have two bites: that of uncomfortableing the newspaper owner and the fear that every journalist of small or medium caliber would have in paying such salty fines. I'll finish. I therefore welcome this law, but I believe that the exosity and enormity of the sanctions provided for therein, not the posthumous, due and sacred reparation, represent a limitation, in some ways, of that part of the press that does not subject to logics of power or other logics that have nothing to do with the freedom and duty of information. Kelsen, another liberal philosopher, said that the cause of democracy is desperate if we start from the idea that absolute truth is possible. We imagine, from statesmen and constructivists as we are, that through this law a magistrate can establish, beyond any reasonable doubt, what is true and what is not. Let me close by mentioning the paradox that who should decide it belongs to a professional order that, even today, just talking about asking those who err and destroy the lives of individuals, families, companies and businesses, to pay out of their own pocket, as the journalist pays, would accuse us of wanting to put the bite on the judiciary. But then you have to decide in this country. I do not say this because I have something against the magistrates: without justice there is no law and without law there is no freedom. But is it possible to use these two weights and these two measures? It would have been better for Luigi De Magistris - even worse - to be a journalist: we would have sent him in the middle of a road instead of imposing a penalty of two and a half years for the series of flops and troubles he has made in the courtrooms. So in my group, as you know, under the banner of absolute liberalism - perhaps anarcho-liberalism - everyone will vote in conscience as he thinks he should vote. As far as I am concerned, I shall abstain from voting on this draft law because I believe that sanctions are so burdensome that there is undue pressure on freedom of the press. [[Applause from the LAG Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u174	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u177	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I entrust to your attention and to your courtesy a request for the institution of the Parliamentary Commission on the work of the credit rating agencies, i.e. the so-called rating agencies. It is just a few hours ago, Mr President, the news that the Trani gip allowed the referral to trial for five representatives of the major rating companies at the Trani court. I would like to take this opportunity to refer the matter to the Court, Mr President, to point out that document XXII No 8 of 8 May 2013 is now revived in its content, because of the heaviness of what is no longer an accusatory theorem, but has passed the scrutiny of another judge, the judge for preliminary investigations. I believe it is necessary to try to tear the veil of omerta that covers the activity of the rating companies, which have produced incalculable damage to the Italian economy, causing devastating spill-over effects. The Court of Auditors of Lazio estimates in about 170 billion the effects of the spread that, in the period from June to December 2011, caused incalculable damage, also injuring democracy, if it is true, that on November 12 of that year the then President of the Council went up to the Quirinale to resign. I believe that the hypothesis of the conspiracy, which is probably a coercion, perhaps even in language, deserves to be marginalized from the debate on an absolutely central and priority issue, which can only have adequate answers if Parliament - and in particular this House - wants to approve the establishment of a Commission of inquiry that protects our democracy and restores words of truth to matters that today are dishonouring the tricolour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u180	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, today I am active, as requested by all Members of this House in Abruzzo, to support the Marcozzi resolution, voted unanimously by the Regional Councillors of Abruzzo. I therefore call on my colleagues, in particular Senator Pelino, Senator Razzi, Senator Chiavaroli, Senator Pezzopane, of course my colleague Blundo and also Senator Quagliariello, although Neapolitan and resident in Rome (but elected in Abruzzo), to take urgent action to ensure that the regional prerogatives provided for by the Italian Constitution are respected. I would remind all the senators in this House that the unanimous vote of the Regional Council demonstrates the unanimous will of the people of Abruzzo. The President and the Council, as well as all the advisers and, as a result, all the citizens of Abruzzo, ask us to amend Articles 37 and 38 of the "S fascia Italia" - pardon - of the Italian release. If the oil lobby had more power than we parliamentarians (and unfortunately they do), they ask us to challenge for unconstitutionality the law of conversion of the decree unblocks Italy; in the alternative, they ask us to activate the proposal for a repealing referendum and finally to undertake the legislative process of the proposal of the Regional Council to the Chambers, which is aimed at the prohibition of prospecting, cultivation and research of liquid hydrocarbons, in order to progressively abandon fossil sources by promoting, on the contrary, renewable ones. As you can see - I say to the Councillor Mazzocca - the 5 Star Movement is and supports the unanimous demands of the Regional Council and citizens. I hope that the only party you represent in the region will do the same in Parliament, but unfortunately my parliamentary experience does not allow me to see positive developments, especially for our children. I hope from the bottom of my heart to be to the shortest denial. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u183	DE PIN (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking today to remind you that Agnesi, the historic brand of pasta in Italy, is in danger of disappearing. The current corporate summits have announced the closure of the plant at the end of this year. Paraphrasing the famous commercial, now silence has plummeted to Imperia. Agnesi doesn't talk anymore. The decision to close the plant is dictated only by the overall interests of the Colussi group, by its disinterest in the territory, by the dynamics of a large group interested in making more profit than to make industry. Years of speculation and creative finance, also encouraged by previous governments, are leading to the disposal of Italian industrial assets. The situation that has arisen for the 110 workers of Agnesi must find an urgent response from the Government. I know that the subject has already been dealt with, but I would like to reiterate that. If we consider that, only in 2014, other great names of Made in Italy have been lost, we are faced with the desertification of important Italian industrial segments. We know that a negotiating table is open at the Ministry of Economic Development to try to find a solution, but now the open tables are 160 and involve more than 155,000 workers. The crisis situation of entire industrial sectors is no longer affordable through this instrument. The question therefore arises: what is the industrial policy that the Government has in mind for Italy? Will the reforms announced, and not yet approved, be able to give answers to workers who lose their jobs and entrepreneurs who are increasingly in difficulty? The Colussi group justifies the closure (this is extraordinary but I have seen these data in the newspapers and updated them) saying that the consumption of pasta has decreased because of the crisis; Coldiretti, on the other hand, says that Italians, despite the economic constraints, have not renounced to consume pasta. In fact, the increase was 27 percent. So how do you justify it? While avoiding easy exploitation, would it not be appropriate for clarity to be made and for the government, together with the social partners, to find a solution quickly?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u184	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-340.ana.u185	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
