ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, look over there: there are some absentees! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is some excess of luminosity: there is a row in which there are five lights and four senators present. Senator Falanga, I invite you to turn off the light behind your back, please. All right, great. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as was mentioned in yesterday's sitting, Liguria, and in particular the area of Chiavari and its hinterland, was once again hit by a very violent storm, which caused yet another environmental disaster and caused the death of two people, the spouses Carlo Armenise and Franca Iaccino. On behalf of all my colleagues, I express deep sympathy for the two victims and closeness to all those who, with great commitment and generosity, are engaged in relief operations. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u11	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would ask that the victim of the Carrara flood, who died yesterday, be included in the minute of silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for remembering you, Senator Barani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1344. The rapporteur, Senator Lumia, asked to supplement the written report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the House on a text which concerns Article 416-b of the Criminal Code; joy and sorrow of recent anti-Mafia legislation. This article has in part united Parliament on a controversial but decisive issue of the fight against the Mafia; the mafia political exchange at the top of democracy and, that is, the electoral moment. However, it was also a moment that divided Parliament, creating visceral conflict even within this House. Let us therefore return to this article and I hope that on this occasion the positive part of sharing may prevail and the most conflicting part may be revised. This legal text intervenes on two points of the system of Article 416-b because the case provided for in that article is not included among those offences which are included within Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975, which governs the penitentiary order. We refer, colleagues, to a system of double track that was thought and wanted by the idea then developed in the field by Falcone and which, as a matter of fact, extended to our entire code system. For common crimes there are a number of profiles; for serious crimes, with Mafia crimes in mind, there are other interventions. The double-track system has also been positively assessed by the Constitutional Court; this approach has gradually been refined and has also overcome possible obstacles that we were faced with by a fair idea of assessment by the Constitutional Court. Article 4-a as regards the execution of the sentence excludes from the penitentiary benefits a whole range of serious crimes; terrorist offences and serious social alarm, including mafia offences. Therefore, in Article 4-a the crime of Mafia association and connections, as provided for in Article 416-a, is inserted. It was not included, however, for the systematic work I mentioned earlier, 416-b. We were then faced with a flaw in the system, which is gradually becoming more and more complete, of 416- bis as a double track system. We have thus incorporated this rule into a bill, at the first signature of Senator Palma, which had the task of correcting this distorting element that we faced when we had to deal, for example, with all the legislation on the overcrowding of prisons. I remember in fact that we have identified together a series of measures that address the issue of overcrowding without endangering the security of the country. The security of the country is not endangered when the crimes are distinguished because there are crimes of particular social alarm that, in the execution of the sentence and in the fight against the "bad" of overcrowding, must not be questioned. Article 416-b did not fall within the scope of those offences including 4-a. What were we colleagues doing, even in this House, when we voted on measures on overcrowding? We always said: except for the crimes provided for in article 4 - bis of the penitentiary order. When we made this call, which was general and concerned all the crimes of serious social alarm, it was precisely that of Article 416-b. Now, with this bill, Article 416-b is also inserted within Article 4-a. Then, in the debate we did in the Commission on justice and through a work that we have done together, we realized that there was another limit, colleagues, which was referring to the problem of changing the code of criminal procedure, so as to introduce, in the list of offences for which investigative competence is attributed to the office of the prosecutor at the court of the capital of the district in which the competent judge is located, also the same Article 416-b. Basically, ladies and gentlemen, you know - and this was also a great intuition from Falcone - that a double-track system was possible with regard to the organization of the judicial system in the district. It was thought that, for the crime of Mafia, the pulverization in ordinary prosecutors was a limit because the mafias increasingly organized themselves in a system that went beyond the territory, while the judicial system was too fragmented and unable to grasp this evolution. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the evolution of the mafias has reached such a point that today the mafias are globalized, while the antimafias are localized. So we are trying to build, within the European legal area, a specific anti-mafia legal space, because only at that level will we be able to intervene and strike at the mafias that are increasingly advancing even in countries that did not know this presence before. And those countries that have blocked themselves to the negationism or minimalism of the presence of the mafias are about to succumb in front of mafias that first arrive with money, then with companies and then with a military organization that, when necessary, explodes even in violent form. Given this kind of evolution, then we thought - ladies and gentlemen, you know how much this idea has cost, both in terms of human lives by many servants of the State - that, in order to hit the mafias we must organize ourselves in the district and also in the national direction: I am referring to a national anti-mafia prosecutor who then took the lead and who today, increasingly, we are trying to strengthen. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have planned in the Commission to include Article 416-b also in Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (where, precisely, there are the offences that are of district competence) in a much simpler way by the so-called anti-mafia prosecutors, so that even the crime of political-election exchange (which is a very delicate crime and to be struck with the utmost attention, since it intervenes on the rise of democracy that is the electoral moment) requires - again here - intervention by a specialised, qualified and prepared prosecutor to address the issue of mafia crimes and, therefore, also the crime of political-electoral exchange. Therefore, an article 2 has been inserted into the original bill, which also covers this other breach. Today we are faced with an article 416-b which has come to life in substantial terms, because the old article 416-b was in fact inapplicable (there were very few cases of application in Italy). Today Article 416-b has grown and is becoming a reality: it had to be set up at systemic level and we thought, precisely, to cover these flaws with regard to Article 4-a of the penitentiary order and with regard to Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So we are facing another step forward. Colleagues, there are still some open issues that we certainly know will be addressed in this House as well. Delicate matters, because in the meantime there have been interventions by the Court of Cassation in relation to the crime of 416-b and the debate is open: some believe that we need to intervene again on the text and those who believe that the text is still able to be used to the best of its potential. Perhaps, colleagues, the truth is in the middle. As far as I am concerned, you know that at the time I thought we needed to take a few more steps in defining the crime case and insert additional elements, then both the Senate and the House voted and we have achieved a result that we must now make the best use of. There is another issue which has made a great deal of discussion in the Committees on the merits and also in the House; the issue of the so-called duration of the sentence. This is also a controversial issue on which there have been pro and con positions. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the increase in the penalty for the crime referred to in 416-b, which will certainly not encounter much opposition, must be related to 416-a, that is, the mother crime of Mafia association, whose penalty has already been increased over the years. Personally, in the last legislature I proposed an increase that was welcomed here at the Senate and I think there is scope for further strengthening. This correlation would give us a more systemic result and this is an argument that we should address free from prejudices and conflicts, including legal solutions within the anti-corruption and anti-mafia package so that today we can take a step forward on 416-b, making use of the part that collects a unitary consensus and putting into work the part on which there are still divisions. I hope that this debate will enrich the work done in the Commission and that this important step forward will be welcomed by all the parliamentary groups. It is clear that the fight against the Mafia must be conducted together and that there must be a quality in unity. This quality in unity must clearly tell the country that the fight against mafias is a priority, while still, dear colleagues, it is not in the most appropriate way. We could start a fight as we did against terrorism and we could tell the whole country that the priority of the fight against mafias is organized in a systemic and design way, calling to collect the best energies of the country not to contain the phenomenon of mafias, but to try to get rid of it definitively. Yes, I think that time is ripe - if anything we are very late - to make this leap forward and continue to progress, with a Carthusian, valuable and meritive work in the Anti-Mafia Commission, as has already happened on many measures, and in the Justice Commissions of the House and Senate. Even so, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should reserve certain sessions devoted to the subject, as is the case at the budgetary session, in order to make our work systematic and productive even over time, a fast and short time. Taking the fight against the mafia as a priority means letting the country understand that we want to open a war to win them and achieve historical results that we have never achieved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration is intended to extend the ban on the granting of prison benefits, already provided for in the Mafia criminal associations, to those convicted of political-mafia electoral exchange. Well, too bad that there are very few convicted of this kind of crime and that they will be even less so in the future, at least as far as those guests of the prison patriae are concerned. This is due, on the one hand, to the substantial reduction of the penalties provided by the majority for this crime and, on the other hand, to the substantial weakening of the rule, desired by the President of the Council, to safeguard who knows what balance of government against the opinion and votes expressed by his own parliamentarians. It should be borne in mind that in 416-b there was a large majority in the Senate's Justice Committee on a much more effective text and far more serious sanctions than those adopted in the final instance. The text approved in the Commission, in addition to the most severe penalties, provided for a substantial extension of the scope of the crime, providing for the provision of the "mafia" (in relation to the mafia) and strengthening the scope of the concept of "other utility" by placing the "adverb" before the words "other utility." It should be remembered that this more effective version of 416-b, as well as the Senate Justice Commission, was also adopted by a large majority in this House and was then adopted by a large majority by the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies. Then something happened: Berlusconi went up to the Colle and the President of the Council intervened in the press to announce that he would return to his steps, basically, to weaken and remove the effectiveness of this prediction of crime. This behavior is very reminiscent, by affinity, of what has already happened during the State-Mafia negotiation. The negotiation is under the scrutiny of the judiciary, but with respect to it the disapplication of 41- bis to hundreds of mob bosses is a fact, as is the cessation of massacres in our country. There is little doubt that the penalty reductions introduced at 416-b were a mistake, as the 5 Star Movement has always stated. It is enough to see the amendments tabled to this legislative text: majority and opposition amendments appear, mostly aimed at changing the rule to increase its sanctioning and dissuasive scope. I repeat, they are majority and opposition amendments. We understand the opposition's amendments, but if there are also amendments by the majority to a law adopted just a few months ago, we have the proof, if ever there was a need, that that measure was not good and therefore must be amended. Many amending proposals have been declared inadmissible in the Commission by President Palma because of the extraneous nature of the matter despite the undoubted connection and the favourable opinion of the rapporteur. Evidently, the tightening of the penalties for voting on political-mafia exchanges, as long as a large majority in Parliament wants, still finds strong resistance. This is exactly what happens in relation to anti-corruption rules, which I recall being put on the agenda of this House at the request of the 5 Star Movement, except then being surreptitiously removed from the agenda by the majority the day after the closure of the seats of the European elections. In conclusion, if the desired changes to the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange are not taken place, we will extend the prohibition of the prison benefits to those sentenced under Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, in the awareness of approving a measure that can be shared in substance, but hypocritical in substance, given the marginal ineffectiveness of the sanctioning of the underlying crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u16	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u17	Mr President, today we are intervening on this hypothesis of crime which has left a considerable debate open to the Senate in recent months, especially following the determinations of the other House, which modified the text that we had launched in the Commission precisely regarding the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange. However, we certainly need to take advantage of this opportunity to ask ourselves why, in 2014, we are actually still talking, and very carefully, about Mafia crimes. We would like this phenomenon to belong to the legacy of our sad and historic episode. Unfortunately, we still have to talk about it today. And we must talk about it again, unfortunately, not only with regard to the typical mafia association, but also with regard to the problem of the mafia infiltration of the political and administrative apparatus. This is even more serious, in some ways, because the crime that becomes (or is suspected to become) part of political activity creates a doubt about the same lawfulness, correctness and transparency of the activity of the politician, who must be absolutely far away and not touched by any kind of criminal case (and especially by this, which is so subtle and diabolical as the Mafia). When we talk, however, of political mafia exchange, we are talking about a hypothesis of crime already present in our system but which, unfortunately, for interpretative and application difficulties has actually given rise to few convictions. I have here a prospectus from the Ministry of Justice which contains data on files relating precisely to the political mafia exchange. Some data could be heartening, because we could see how few there are in Mafia political electoral exchanges. In 2010, there were two convictions; in 2011, six convictions; in 2012, 12 convictions. Therefore, by reading this table we could be heartened and say that, fortunately, there were not many episodes. On the other hand, the great doubt is that the case referred to in 416-ter for interpretation difficulties has not been applied. Parliament has, in fact, adopted this rule to forecast the new case and it is hoped that this will have a real impact. Nevertheless, we at the North League had made clear, when examining the text that had passed from the House and Senate, that perhaps it could be done better; so much so that we too had bitterly reduced the sentence than we had foreseen in the text that was launched by this Senate. Today, however, we are going to talk about something which may seem even marginal, and that is the introduction of this hypothesis of crime among those provided for in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975. In fact, it is an important step because, beyond the prediction of the crime case, as it has been done, I repeat that we hope that this hypothesis can have some very important effects on the reduction of the phenomenon of mafia infiltration in the political apparatus. The amendment we are making today is important, because Article 4-a of Law 354 of 1975 provides for the application of certain types of benefits, excluding them for all cases covered by Article 4-a. The case referred to in Article 416-b, i.e. the Mafia electoral voting offence, was missing. On the other hand, it is important to provide for this particular case precisely for the assumptions to which certain benefits do not apply: external work, premium permits and alternative measures to detention. It is very important that no benefits are granted to those who are guilty of a very serious crime, even if we, as a Group of the North League, take the opportunity to argue here too. As we have pointed out in the debate on all the various empty prisons that have come to this House, we believe that these benefits must be excluded for many of the offences. In fact, we do not even think that we should talk about this kind of benefit, since with the various hypotheses of decriminalization, early release and suspension of the sentence, there are so many benefits that have been granted to criminals on the basis of these measures that we have shamefully launched. In spite of everything, we have a positive attitude towards this text. I have seen that many amendments have been tabled which would like to affect the criminal case provided for in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. Some are important, others would like to call into question the possibility of crime, regardless of the inclusion provided for in Article 4-a of Law 354 of 1975. The debate, in our opinion, is always open. Perhaps this is not the right place to talk about it, having to assess, after the immediate application of Article 416-b, the reverberations on the scope of its application. We believe - but, in fact, I believe that this is the case - that this House must always be available to analyse the phenomenon of the mafia and to understand what are the most appropriate instruments to suppress it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u18	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u19	Mr President, this bill prohibits the granting of benefits to those convicted of political-mafia electoral exchange. Inevitably, however, when it comes to 416-b, the painful - and much more troubled - memory of the bill n. 948, today law n. 62 of 2014 of "Edit article 416-b of the penal code, in the matter of political-mafioso exchange" comes to mind. A law that has full legal effect in our legal system and that, without a reason, has restricted the objective scope of application of the political-mafia exchange, establishing - in the general dismay of the operators of law and citizenship - the most mythical penalties. One of the many monstrous legal products of this legislature that, in addition to having the primacy of trust demands, can - without too much effort - also boast the record of approval of legislative texts at the limit of abomination. The last icing in order of arrival was the measure unlocks Italy. But what about the decree of competitiveness, jobs act, the leaping constitutional reforms and an understated series of macroscopic folly that conceal - even rather badly - the obsessive disorder from which President Renzi suffers: confidencemania? The symptoms are repeated with Swiss precision: a Council of Ministers is convened, two or three decree-laws are recorded, some sensationalist tweets are shot in the air, a press conference is convened in which statements are made freely taken from the diary of the supercazzole, an English-speaking name is used to rename the provision and within 60 days (do not run away, my lords!) confidence manifests itself. Trust alone, this draft law could have restored and perhaps tightened the sanctioning framework provided for in Article 416-b, as well as broadening its objective scope of application. It would have sufficed to approve the amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group in the Justice Commission, but on them, inexplicably, the manna of impproposability has fallen due to extraneousness of matter. I would say, however, that this is indeed a bizarre extraneousness by subject, considered the double thread that binds Articles 416- bis and 416-b of the penal code, both expressly recalled in the new wording by article 4-a of Law 354 of 1975, today to the examination of the Senate. In short, an opportunity to repair one of the many mistakes - indeed, horrors - legislative of the last few months, has gone up in smoke. Although the small effort contained in this bill, aimed at curbing the magnum sea of mafia criminal phenomena, and although a change has been approved in the Senate Justice Commission, which includes the political-mafia electoral exchange between the crimes of competence of the district prosecutors, it is really not clear why the edittal penalties have not been elevated and the scope of the case has been widened. In the second Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Lumia, spoke of "reserves of doctrine in this matter." Senator Lumia, however, forgets that it is the individual cases that are subject to the attention of the judges who make the jurisprudence and that all the nodes are preparing to come to the comb because, in fact, the judging bodies have been given too weak tools to counter the mafias. "Evidently not all have yet perceived, or want to perceive, that in order to make a real leap of quality in the fight against mob organizations we must do everything to cut off their relations with politics and institutions in general": words, these, not mine, but of Pm Nino of Matthew. Words that, without too many sophisms, enclose the disappointment for the reform of 416-ter last April and that fit perfectly even after months. Today, as yesterday, opportunities continue to be lost to counter criminal associationism, with force and consistent laws. So, Senator Lumia, the truth isn't in the middle. The truth lies on the side of that rule of law which defends citizens, who defends justice, who really opposes mafias and debacles. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on which we are called to vote this morning fills a serious gap left in the Italian criminal system by the much celebrated Law No 62 of 17 April 2014, which introduced the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange in our system. And in fact, while it appears evident, in the construction of this new criminal case, the reference, with the reference to the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of article 416- bis of the penal code, to the methods proper to the Mafia associations, that is to the use of the intimidating force deriving from the adhesion to the association and from the criminal control of the territory, surprisingly those who were condemned for such crime would, to date, have a much more favorable penitentiary treatment than those who were condemned, instead, even if only for a hypothesis of crime aggravated by article 7 of law n. 203 of 1991 or for external competition in association of mafia type. We have, therefore, the possibility of remedying this omission, which generates unjustified unequal treatment, and I hope, as the rapporteur himself has hoped, with the conviction of all, without distinction from the Group or political ideology, that the legislative action we are debating this morning will be adopted. The vote can only be favourable and, besides being favourable, convinced, also because of the refinement of the technical solution chosen that was to insert the crime provided and punished by Article 416-b of the penal code in the hive of the crimes referred to in article 4-a of the law 26 July 1975, n. 354, so-called law of the penitentiary order. As I said, it is a refined choice, from a technical and legal point of view, to be attributed, without any difficulty, to the technical competence of the President of our Justice Commission, Senator Palma, who is a signatory to this measure. As all legal practitioners know, in fact, this rule - I am referring to the law on penitentiary law - has for over twenty years become a sort of collector of those that the legislator, recording the view of public opinion and social conscience, identifies as more serious crimes for which access to alternative measures to infrared detention, if not impossible, is certainly more difficult and postponed over time. The inclusion in the genus of the crimes referred to in article 4-a of Law n. 354 of 1975 have been linked, over time, also consequences on the same execution procedure that, pursuant to article 656, paragraph 9, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for the condemned for these types of crimes does not provide any possibility of suspension, even if the penalty to be atonement is, in practice, less than three years. Fairness, justice and dogmatic rationality come together, in my opinion, in this measure that, let me stress this forcefully, represents a further, if need be, affirmation of those principles of rigor and struggle without district to the criminal organizations that the center-right has always pursued in a perspective of authentic (and not propagandistic) firmness, especially with reference to the execution phase of the sentence. In other words: maximum guarantee and balance in the very delicate phase of the ascertainment of facts and responsibilities, in which it is necessary to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of defence and personal freedom (on the point I could open a parenthesis relating to the protective custody provided for in our order, so much questionable from my point of view), but, at the moment when there is the ascertainment of the facts and the affirmation of responsibility with a judgment passed in court, it is clear that on this side, from this political force, comes out an attitude of maximum rigour and demand of the maximum certainty of the extinction of the sentence. That is why I am proud to claim that I have been part of that Parliament which, under Law No 279 of 23 December 2002, on the initiative of the then Berlusconi Government, established and established such an organic and procedural structure at the so-called hard prison, or the discipline of Article 41-a of Law No 354 of 1975, until then maintained in a precarious and provisional form, in a regime of continuous extensions and applicative uncertainties that had, among other things, also exposed us to the risk of European sanctions. I note that some political forces have not escaped the temptation to seize the opportunity of this, sacrosanct but focused, corrective intervention in order to propose - I must think, indeed I am sure - only in terms of propaganda and communication, substantial changes to the sanctioning treatment or to the same construction of the norm dismissed just five months ago. Senator Donno, you referred to the mannaia of the impponibility of the amendments. The scientific knowledge of the subject is probably far from her. On the contrary, I must say that, being accustomed to hearing from the Presidency measures sometimes of dubious regulatory correctness, I was surprised this morning; therefore, I welcome the Presidency for having correctly and appropriately declared unacceptable those amendments which affected the penalty and, therefore, the amendment of the sanctions dismissed by a rule just a few months ago and, therefore, were completely unrelated to the matter of the measure we are examining. Let me be clear about that. In spite of the beliefs of all colleagues engaged in the narcissistic carousel of vanity - and I am referring to those who try, with completely impossible amendments, to introduce in this measure changes of sanctions for certain crimes - I must point out that the message that eventually reaches the nation and the people who sent us on these scranni is, overall, disorientation and confusion: how can we, in fact, so little time and in the aftermath of the adoption of a law greeted by all with satisfaction (I can quote the favorable comments of the national anti-mafia prosecutor, the omnipresent president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Don Luigi Ciotti and many other experts in the sector, certainly not tacciabile of sympathies against the center-right), return on the subject and say, melius re per pensa, we have wrong, is better to punish this other course, increase the penalty, etc.? On the other hand, it is my opinion, which is the judgment of Forza Italia, essentially positive on amendment 1.0.6 that was approved in the Commission, which proposes to complete the insertion, in full title, of the crime referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code in the circuit of crimes of organized crime by attributing, with the integration of paragraph 3-a of Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the competence of investigations on this crime to the district anti-mafia. I would remind you that the rapporteur, Senator Lumia, is the proposer of this amendment. It is true, however, that this would probably have been achieved by way of a case-law, given the reference in the text of the new Article 416-b of the Criminal Code to the methods referred to in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code, and, however, the amendment moves in the direction of consistency and clarity. When it comes, even if from a senator of other political force - in this case it is Senator Lumia - a convincing and correct proposal from the technical point of view, from these benches we have never had any difficulty in sharing its essence, in recognizing its correctness and in voting favorably for the proposal itself. Having said that, I can only conclude by expressing, on behalf of the whole Group of Forza Italia, my deepest satisfaction at the initiative of the law, in particular President Palma, whose presence in our Parliamentary Group honors us and particularly gives me pride. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the measure and urge everyone to approve it unanimously. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u22	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u23	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u24	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank all the members of the Justice Commission for their work. As has been said by the rapporteur and those who have spoken in this Chamber, this measure is important because it intervenes, both on Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the competence of the DDA, therefore of the district judiciary, and as regards the prohibition of the granting of penitentiary benefits - and therefore of Article 4-a of Law 354 of 1975 - extending it also to those sentenced under Article 416-b. Therefore, benefits such as external work, premium permits and alternative detention measures are also prohibited for persons convicted under Article 416-b. With regard to the amendments, the Government points out that many amending proposals concern the extent of the penalty, on which we have already spoken when we examined the rules of Article 416-b, while others affect the legal qualification, which has already been addressed. In particular, I would point out that Amendment 1.0.100, which proposes an amendment to Article 416-b of the penal code, which has been recently reformed, does not add, indeed even takes a step backwards than the current rule. It provides for the criminality of the Ombudsman himself, but in my opinion it is already punished with the current text: the new wording of the rule contained in Article 416-b, as it has been approved, already punishes the Ombudsman, so this amendment adds nothing new; moreover, as I said, the amendment constitutes a setback, because it does not provide for the punishableness of those who promise to obtain the votes, but only for those who obtain the promise. The Government considers that the text proposed by the Commission is a balanced text, extending the ban on the granting of penitentiary benefits, already foreseen for other crimes, to those sentenced under Article 416-b, in line with the legislation relating to 416-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u27	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments thereto, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established in the Commission, declares impossible, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, all the amendments tabled to the draft law under consideration (with the exception of amendment 1.0.102 of the rapporteur, who has been withdrawn), as they aim to modify the wording of Article 416-b of the penal code in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange. It is, of course, understood that the subject can be considered in a specific draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u30	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in the vote on the two articles we have just taken, I personally was one of the few who abstained, if not the only one. This is because I believe, even if it has great esteem and confidence in Senator Palma, who is the presenter of this bill, that our order has too many laws and therefore too many situations in which you come to find an suspect and then a condemned one. The Mafia, like organized crime in general (the Camorra, the sacred united crown, the 'ndrangheta) are obviously to be fought, and the State must do everything to do so, but in common practice they are not alone and always the real criminals to be condemned. Often, many politically exposed people, on purely political issues - sometimes of media over-exposition of certain prosecutors - are condemned and subjected to conditions of imprisonment which, even according to the European Court of Human Rights, have nothing of humanity: they are inhumane. Just think of the debate these days on life imprisonment: Pope Francis last year had the courage to abolish it while we continue to predict this penalty for many condemned. Yet, our Constitution speaks of the re-education of the condemned so as to favor his recovery, but with life imprisonment what do we go to recover? Every day that passes for a sentenced person not to life imprisonment is one day less, while every day that passes for a life sentence is one day more: it does not see the light at the end of the tunnel and the Constitution is, therefore, to be disapplied. On the other hand, also on political-mafia issues, as in the case of the political-mafia exchange vote, there is an excessive randomity, an excessive elasticity, so anyone, including the intermediary, even if innocent, can be spotted and condemned to this penalty, which is actually of great scope. Falcone and Borsellino have strangely paid because they really fought the mob. Others who may be on the front line for the fight against the mafia remind me of the famous parable of the fox that to take refuge from the hunter is locked in its funds: I mean that, very often, this modern mafia that must be fought hides in the antimafia. This is not why anti-mafia is to be considered despicable, in fact, the real anti-mafia is the one that fights the mafia; but often one realizes that being an anti-mafia only serves to make political career and nothing more. Having said that, I believe that the rules are too many: among the 28 countries of the European Union, Italy is the nation that has the most norms and in this dark forest you can not gather. There is therefore no objectivity of judgment. We have seen it in these days, in which the undersigned has followed, of course with satisfaction, that finally an appeal judgment has acquitted the doctors who had been convicted in the first instance for the case Cucchi. Finally, an appeal decision confirmed its innocence, but there was no doubt about it, and the Senate Committee of Inquiry of the last legislature had already made this clear. In fact, our order does not need further leghold traps, laces or laces, but only a serenity of action on the part of the judges and that they do not become excessive protagonists of judicial life just to make political career. Of course, for a judge, the political-mafia exchange is a fertile ground, to investigate and condemn a politician, with the plan to ascend "superior" to a political career, which sees its stepping stone in this very attitude. Therefore, if in theory the prohibition of granting benefits to those convicted of the crime referred to in Article 416-b of the penal code could be widely shared, in practice then it is always the usual and certainly not the guilty ones: in this nose, in this web, perhaps out of naivety, fall in fact the elements of second, third or fourth floor. In fact, the real mobsters are a very different thing and the state usually fails to take over them. 10:38 a.m. (Follow Barani). In recent years we have even seen the State dealing with the Mafia. Not surprisingly, a few days ago, just what I am saying, the President of the Republic was also interested, and this also concerned an old President of the Senate. I would like to conclude by reminding you that a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the Moro case has been set up these days. Why do we think there's a connection? Because we believe that at that time the state did nothing to try to resolve a question where crime, common and uncommon, was taking over the state. So we believe that our judicial system must be simplified, as happens in other European countries, because otherwise criminality becomes the fundamental point of involution, also from the economic point of view, of our country: the 2% of GDP that bad justice costs us, that is, 32 billion euros a year, says a lot; as the fact that the National Association of Judges is keeping this Government under check, says a lot, and is doing so with methods and ways that have nothing to envy to the mafia. I finish my speech by saying that, in theory, this bill signed by Senator Palma is more than ever acceptable; in practice, however, if it applies to the innocent, we socialists guarantee, we believe that we cannot share, that we must simplify and return to life imprisonment, removing this inhumane penalty and not suitable for a real state of law. [[Applause from Senator Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u33	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I can only point out what has already been said in the general debate. In particular, it has been seen that the amendments which had been proposed to amend the regulatory scope of Article 416-b have been declared inadmissible. This was perhaps not the right place to reopen a debate that had already taken place in this House and in the House. There will probably be future opportunities to keep the subject alive, given the seriousness of the criminal phenomenon we are talking about. There are tables, of which I explained the content in the general debate, which highlight a very limited application of Article 416-b in the previous wording, which was launched a few months ago by Parliament. We look forward to a positive response to the repression of the phenomenon. As we have already said, it is extremely serious that we still have to talk about the mafia in our day, but it is even more serious that we have to talk about the mafia and the interference of this dramatic and sad phenomenon, which we would like to belong to the past, precisely on political activity. As a Group of the North League, we express our vote in favour of the measure that we are talking about, since it is an absolutely necessary intervention, namely the introduction of the hypothesis of the political-mafia exchange vote in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975. At present the benefits would apply, for example, premium permits and also liberation, against phenomena of this kind; instead we share the line expressed in this measure aimed at excluding also for the crime of political-mafia exchange vote, the possibility of having benefits for the inmates. I repeat: this is a necessary step. We have committed the House to this measure which, perhaps, could also be resolved in the Commission, but it is a fair and necessary opportunity to talk publicly about the Mafia, in front of everyone, also committing the House, to keep the debate on a very serious phenomenon alive. It is indeed hoped that all the remedies, which must be adopted by this House in relation to the repression of this phenomenon, will continue and, indeed, be intensified, that anti-mafia activity will become even harder, so that one day we can talk about the mafia as something belonging to the past. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u36	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the component of the Left Ecology and Freedom of the Mixed Group and the Mixed Group as a whole of the measure under consideration. Indeed, the elements that are introduced into the legislation, which in some way complement an already important work that Parliament had started over the past months, are considered right and due to the fact that in the case of Article 416-b of the penal code - also following an important and extraordinary campaign, which had aroused a great and positive movement of the public opinion of this country, the so-called campaign of the bracelets of "Libera" and other associations - had introduced the wording of "other utilities." At the time, Parliament was engaged in a debate (which seemed rather instrumental to me and my group) on certain elements concerning the increase in penalties. Around this topic there was a discussion which, in some way, referred to the need to tackle in a more organic way the combined provisions of the two articles (i.e. Articles 416-a and 416-b of the Criminal Code). However, paradoxically, just that kind of discussion, which developed during those days in the Senate of the Republic, ended with putting in the background a very significant aspect, what we are talking about today: on the one hand, the investigative competences for the office of the prosecutor at the court of the chief town of the district in which the competent judge is located and, on the other hand, the theme of the benefits that, in the discussion that we did, were guiltyly obscured by another type of affair and that, instead, today, are rightly introduced within this provision. At this point, this measure, for the logical consistency of the system, seems to us much more accomplished and also much more effective. That is why we will vote in favour and we will also do so so that attention never fails (if I may say so). We have always said this over the course of all these months and we repeat it today, in the explanation of vote on this article: we think that, despite the undoubted victories and undoubted successes that have been recorded in recent years in the fight against the Mafia, attention should not be lowered and instead the sense of safeguarding democratic institutions and all the forms of contrast that the ordering can imagine against the mafia phenomenon and, of course, those who come to terms with the mafia phenomenon must remain high. For these reasons, this article sees our agreement and we will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u39	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would simply like to say that the New Centre Group is voting in favour of this bill, which eliminates a reasonable and appreciable imbalance in the system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u42	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of this bill, but we are not hiding behind this vote, as many people in this House have done today. This unanimity on this rule hides a reality that we have been saying for months: this rule is completely ineffective and useless because months ago Article 416-b has been rendered ineffective and useless. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This was said, ladies and gentlemen, by the Cassation on 30 August of this year: conducts which were first criminally significant have become legally not punishable by the amendment of Article 416-b. That is why there was that great unanimity: it is easy to take away the benefits for the condemned for article 416-b, since there will be none. That is the significance of the amendment of 416-b approved in this House a few months ago, and the Court of Cassation says so, not the 5 Star Movement. We had tabled some amendments (and not just us: the main party of the majority) aimed at restoring a minimum of effect of 416-b, incredibly unacceptable amendments, after everything has passed in this House! I do not remember how the feminicide was put together with the uniforms of the firemen and fireworks, but when we talk about fighting the mafia we cannot put together the prison benefits and the modification of 416-b: they are completely different subjects. No, gentlemen, they are not different subjects, they are subjects on which we wanted to intervene in a certain way! (at 10.51 a.m.) (Giarrusso followed). Today this vote takes on the meaning of a mockery. And do you know who you're mocking, colleagues? You are mocking people like Di Matteo, Scarpinato and the other magistrates of Palermo who today risk the skin for this state and are at risk! In this House we had a duty - and we could do this today - to give the Mafia a clear signal, and the signal was that we did not agree with the Mafia, but that we did not want to give this signal. There are some parties that do not want to give this signal, and it is a very serious moment in our history! Not giving this signal means taking on a huge responsibility. Colleagues, you are taking on a gigantic responsibility, because if anything happens to our servants of the State outside this House, it will be your responsibility! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). Not the mob, no! GIARRUSSO (M5S). It will be yours, of you who did not want effective rules to fight the mobsters and you opposed them. It is useless for you to vote unanimously on this rule which will do nothing, because there will be no condemned ex 416-b with the rule you have approved. Read the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 28 August, ladies and gentlemen! The 5 Star Movement then tells you and those who are outside this House and who are looking very apprehensively at this House when we are discussing rules against the Mafia, that if they dare to lift their hand against the faithful servants of the State we will ask for two things and we will get them, one way or another. Let it be clear, because those who enter the Mafia do not come out, and we know, the first thing we will ask if something should happen will be the worsening of the sentence for Mafia association: we will ask that those who enter jail for Mafia should no longer leave, we will ask for life! The second thing we will ask for will be the extension of 41- bis to all dangerous criminals detained in prisons with Mafia convictions. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups and the Orellana and Campanella senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u45	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Palma's bill is part of the policy of effective struggle against the Mafia that Forza Italia has been pursuing for several years. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). The serious one! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I do not have to remind this House that the major anti-mafia legislation, the one that has rewritten with the consent of all the new legislation, is the fruit of the Berlusconi governments. Let's start by remembering that the increase in sentence for 416- bis was approved by the Berlusconi Government and that the rewriting for the stabilization of this measure is always due to that Government. In the same way, we must remember that with the Berlusconi Government we have reached the possibility of confiscation for equivalent, when it is not possible to arrive at attacking the patrimony of the Mafia, and also to pursue and obtain the possibility to seize the assets even after the death of the Mafia. A number of rules have been adopted concerning mob associations abroad. You have to understand what the mob is, but there are people here who continue to say, as Sciascia said, according to a model of anti-mafia professionals. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Who was Sciascia talking about anti-mafia professionals? To those who speak, open their mouths and shout to give interpretations, but they do not pose a serious problem of fighting the Mafia. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The Mafia is an organization, as Sciascia also said when talking about anti-mafia professionals, which pollutes society and institutions. It must be fought with intelligence and not with declamations. You have to fight it by giving the tools to the judiciary, the police, the law enforcement forces so that this fight can be won. Look, this rule is not that it is of no use, as someone says: it serves because it is the overall picture that gives the honest citizens the idea of what the policy is in the fight against the mafia. If this rule had not been included, we would have had that the aiding aggravated by the Mafia's aggression led to the applicability of the benefits of the Gozzini law. For a politician the most serious crime is not corruption, it is not any betrayal of the political function, but the betrayal of the political function in the agreement with the mafia and with anyone who obtains votes through exchanges that must be fought and delegitimized. It is then logical that this rule should be included in this article. When I am told that the sentence has to be lifted again, we forget that 416-ter has received a shuttle of four votes. This House had increased its sentence, but then the rule was changed by the House. [[Comments of the Senator Catalfo]] See that in the philosophy of fighting crime - I don't want to teach anyone anything - the raising of the penalty doesn't always lead to greater deterrents. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We've kept it! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). The raising of the sentence sometimes results in the impossibility of ascertaining the crime. We must, from a social point of view, verify the way in which the cancers caused by the mafia intervene in society and we must give an image of effective condemnation, as if it were another world distant from us. It's not because we're better. If Forza Italia has managed to obtain unanimous consent (not today) in the series of laws (I mentioned only some of them) that have been approved since 2008, this means that there was, not a consensus, but the need for those regulations, which have determined a series of successes in the new mafia processes following their approval. This means having the intelligence to formulate rules that can be of real help in that struggle. That is the reality. You cannot fail to reason in terms of effectiveness. I recall that, when it seemed like a crazy proposal, I proposed in the Chamber (I was then Undersecretary of the Berlusconi Government), at the suggestion of Minister Alfano, to eliminate the possibility for those convicted of mafia crimes to access, even at first instance, legal aid. We have eliminated that rule by allocating those funds to the defense of women who are victims of violence. Mr Capelletti (M5S). But if they have the billions! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But that doesn't matter! Maybe he didn't get it. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] To remove the possibility of legal aid and to guarantee the possibility of confiscation by equivalent means to say that, however, those in a mob organization have availability. Otherwise, the possibility of seizure and confiscation by equivalent is not justified and the possibility of confiscation against heirs after death is not justified. This is the fight against the mafia, which is made not only of punishment but of the ability to affect the actual possibilities of magistrates, prosecutors, prosecutions, to ascertain criminal responsibilities and, at the same time, to distance themselves from those who are yes outside the mafia but who constitute its contour. I am referring to those who pretend to be fighting, but then, at the same time, they have relations with the Mafia. We, politically, must affirm this here, with a unanimous decision: to affirm that the politician must be distant from the world of the mafia, it means not only that he must be distant from the activity of camorristic-mafia, but also from the pollution of the vote through the political-mafia exchange and the possibility of listening to what the mafia wants to support. This leads to a different philosophy. Politics must realise and assume the responsibility to act in a state that has values and principles that have their foundation in Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. The activity of the Mafia and all criminal organizations is against those values and principles. A politician, therefore, cannot even remotely deal with those around the mafia who grow up and who profit from the mafia (if they were economic or only in the form of a recommendation). We must deny this possibility and reiterate that this provision does not imply that someone is so out of the minimum rules that they do not deserve the benefits that Gozzini's law recognizes in compliance with the article of the Constitution that imposes the possibility of the re-education of the condemned (and here we do not think of life imprisonment, as someone says, because life imprisonment is the end of sentence: never, which contradicts the Constitution itself). This provision says that a person is so out of the Constitution that he does not deserve those benefits, and that therefore we hope that only with the penalty he can re-educate himself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u48	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Mr President, we broke up a few months ago with the approval of the new text of Article 416-b on the crime of political-mafia voting. A long-awaited approval that was going to solve a problem, although overcome by the jurisprudence, which had essentially prevented its concrete application: the limitation of the exchange to the giving of money. Yet, that is the moment when the free expression of one's consent is traded with the promise of favors or protections, the moment when, through the search for procacciators of votes capable of influencing the free expression of the vote by voters by virtue of their own mafia power, a serious impediment is placed to the realization of the basic elements of democracy. Many controversy had accompanied the parliamentary debate in relation to the forecast of a lower penalty than that contained in Article 416-a, by making the real innovation take second place: to have transformed Article 416-b into a danger offence by anticipating the sanction at the time of the exchange of promises. A lower offence than the offence consumed provided for in Article 416-a, for which the same penalty previously provided for could certainly not be recognized when it did not yet constitute a hazard offence and materialized at the actual time of the exchange. An interpretation that has recently been reiterated by another judgment of the Supreme Court (No 37374, filed on 9 September), which is ignored and which instead acknowledges the useful work done by Parliament in the codification of the vote of exchange... [[Live comments from Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u49	Senator Giarrusso, stop! Everyone must have the right to intervene freely. [[Live comments from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Giarrusso, Santangelo and Martelli.]] I did the call. Now let the senator speak. Please, Senator Capacchione.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u50	Only one objection had real basis, namely the possibility that the convicted person for that crime could obtain discounts of punishment and other benefits, excluded for those who were convicted under Article 416- bis or for crimes aggravated by the mob method. A danger resulting from the non-introduction of Article 416-b between the offences provided for in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975 and, in addition, the exclusion of the crime of political-mafia exchange voting from those within the competence of the District Directions anti-mafia, which would have lost sight, therefore, the wider context in which the elections, rigged by the mafias, took place and how the consent was piloted. That is why we are going to vote in favour of these amendments in this House today, pending the possible amendment of the sanctions provided for in Article 416-b in a wider context, i.e. the overall review of the penalties provided for in Article 416-a. That is why the Democratic Party announces its vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u53	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission, as well as the staff of the offices (to Dr Pigcione, all the other officials and secretariat staff), and, if I may, and if I may wait for the vote on both Article 1 and Article 2, to all the senators present in this House, who, with a unanimous vote, have shown how it is possible to find a unity of intent in the fight against organised crime when the rules are serious and are not flagship rules. Finally, even in the light of this last small incident that has occurred, I would like to express, as President of the Commission, personally and on behalf of my Group, all the closeness to Senator Capacchione, who has dedicated his life, through his articles, to the fight against the mob and who, not by chance, has recently seen the conviction of lawyer Santonastaso for the threats to her. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL, PI, SCPI and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u54	The Presidency supports this statement of esteem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u57	[[Live comments from Senators Fornaro and Mirabelli at the address of the Senators of the M5S Group.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). We'll get over it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I gave the floor to Senator Manconi, who has the right to do his dissenting speech. Come on in, Senator Manconi. Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, I declare my vote of abstention because I consider this rule merely declamation, intended to perform a function only and exclusively of a rhetorical nature and to convey an ideological message, symbolic and, at the end of the day, empty. For this reason, despite the greatest respect I have for those who have an opinion exactly opposite to my own - and I address in particular to Senator Capacchione - I will vote in dissent from my Group, abstaining from voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u60	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). [[Lively protests from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, it seems to me really out of place and inconvenient what is happening in the face of a vote like this. I find some unnecessary and harassing comments. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u64	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, please take the necessary measures. It is not acceptable that every time the 5 Star Movement Group is censored, reproved and sanctioned, while from the PD benches, in particular Senator Fornaro, they scream like obsesses and are not reproved. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u65	We need a chamomile for everyone here!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00300 (text 2), tabled by Senator Rossi Gianluca and other senators, 1-00327 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00338, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00339, presented by Senator Council and other senators, and 1-00341, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, on the future of the special steel factory Terni-AST. I call Senator Rossi Gianluca to explain motion No 300 (text 2). 11.14 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Vincenti, when I put the motion forward, I will of course try to contextualise it to the events of these days and hours. Special Steel Terni is the largest industrial site in central Italy with a turnover of 2.4 billion euros; it employs about 2,900 direct employees and as many in the induced, with 400 companies involved and 20,000 people benefited in terms of income, and represents 20% of Umbria's GDP. AST is among the world's leading producers of stainless rolled flats and alone constitutes a share in the Italian market of more than 40%. In 2011, ThyssenKrupp decided to leave this sector with the separation of the stableless area and the creation of Inoxum, including TK-AST and subsidiaries (SDF, Tubificio and Aspasiel), TK-Nirosta and VDM in Germany, Merinox in Mexico, TK stainless USA in Alabama. In January 2012, the Finnish group Outokumpu formalized the offer for the acquisition of 70 percent of Inoxum, for about 2.7 billion, with the creation of a potential global leader in production, with an estimated turnover of 11.8 billion euros and over 19,000 employees. With the closure of the Bochum site at the end of 2015, the closure in 2013 of the melting activities of the Krefeld plant, the plants of Tornio in Finland and Terni in Italy should have represented the core of the group in Europe. In May 2012, the European Commission started to assess the operation, in order to verify whether it would incur excessive concentration at the expense of competition, considering the continued existence of four European players as essential. Outokumpu therefore put forward an alternative proposal to meet the competitive parameters which was not considered sufficient by the European Commission, which, on 1 October 2012, reported the negative outcome of the market tests. According to the Commission, three entities were created in stainless steel production: Aperam, Acerinox and Outokumpu, and the latter with the acquisition of Inoxum, would have reached a coverage of the European cold-rolled flat steel market of 52 percent and the world market of 14 percent. On October 9, 2012, Outokumpu communicated the subsequent proposal: disposal of Terni plants, with the exception of the tube factory, and transfer of the most modern line for the production of polished steel, with a potential of 130,000 tons in another plant. The attempts to acquire Terni's website, both for European and Italian hands, have not been successful. This has, in my opinion, marked a crucial moment for Italian industry in order to obtain the defence of a strategic asset; unfortunately not everyone has considered it that. However, in this context, and in giving 'triumphalistic' judgments on the possible acquisition of AST by Outokumpu or on the transfer of ownership to another subject, let us not forget either the serious financial difficulties that Outokumpu is experiencing today, nor the losses of AST, which vary between 100 and 150 million per year and which require anyone to do the accounts, we first of all, if we want to be serious. In November 2013, ThyssenKrupp announced the repurchase of Ast, VDM and some service centres, perfected, with the approval of the European Commission on 13 January 2014, with the request of a plan of activities and investments aimed at improving the profitability of Terni. On 17 July 2014, ThyssenKrupp presented to the Italian Government and the trade union organizations the new industrial plan with five fundamental objectives: increase of profitability, optimization of the productive structure and costs, rationalization of the structure of the group, updating of the information technology procedures, with the hypothesis, within the fiscal year 2015-2016, of the closure of one of the two electric furnaces, reduction of the occupational levels for 580 units, renegotiation of the contracts, modalities and the costs of the supplyings of the raw materials, renegotiating of the contracts of the staff, with a decrease of 10 percent, reconstitution in the single legal subject of the societies of the group and revision of the second level bargaining. On 4 August the company announced the mobility for 580 workers; thanks to the intervention of the Government it was obtained the suspension and the same opened a table of confrontation with unions and Umbrian institutions, to modify the industrial plan. On 8 October, the Government proposed a framework agreement that provided for the substantial maintenance of current production capacities, conditions that would allow the strengthening of cold working, half-off of redundancies, activation of social shock absorbers and procedures for re-utilisation at the end of the mobility path and further reductions in costs for energy supply. This proposal was not shared either by the company or by trade unions. At this point AST started the mobility procedure and communicated the 20% reduction in the value of contracts with third companies. One of these, the ILSERV (330 employees), strategic for the operation of the site, has started the procedures of the extraordinary integration fund, even in the presence of AST of the same conditions until 31 December 2014. From all this the general strike of the entire city of Terni and Umbria on October 17 and the repeated demonstrations of protest culminated with the blockade of the factory, still ongoing, and the serious incidents of October 29 in Rome. On the same day, finally, the managing director of AST had assured Minister Guidi that he would pay wages to the workers, which happened but only on the date of November 10 (with the cut of the supplemental quota), necessary condition for the resumption of the confrontation that still remains open. In the hope of a positive and rapid closure of the matter, in order to safeguard the industrial site, we are asking, with regard to the industrial part: the maintenance of the integrated production capacity to heat and cold; consequent production volumes (over million euros); further investments, beyond those foreseen for maintenance and improvements plant (100 million), research and development and definitive installation of the so-called line 5, which we consider in any case positive; the real strengthening of the commercial network in order to increase the sales, another essential condition to guarantee the first point, namely the maintenance of the integrated production capacity. We also call for the protection of employment, through the search for all possible solutions and the protection, in particular, of the contracts of apprentices and fixed-term workers, as well as for the promotion of a constant initiative within the European Union to call ThyssenKrupp to respect the commitments which the Commission requested when the sale operation was completed, first, and then to re-acquire. In this context, I would ask the Government to take action against the unacceptable statements made yesterday by the European Commissioner for Industry, who considered the ThyssenKrupp issue an Italian fact. We also call for specific measures, consistent with current legislation, to protect the environment, work and the competitiveness of the territory, given the concomitant presence of chemical, mechanical and steel poles. Finally, we ask for the completion of strategic infrastructures for the Terni site, such as the Orte-Civitavecchia, and the doubling of Orte-Falconara railway, and to evaluate, in the presence of the hypothesis of sale, the involvement of the Cassa deposits and loans and other forms that the Government considers appropriate. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u68	I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion 327 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u69	Madam President, today we are talking about a very important affair not only for our region, Umbria, but for Italy as a whole: an extremely complex affair that crosses interests of various kinds, and not only strictly industrial. It is a complex affair that has remained for too long in the general silence of the institutions: for too long no mention has been made of this reality and for too long no possible solutions have been studied. Then, however, it happened that the events of Terni have taken on a national character, and this has led to a convergence of interests of a not only territorial but also and above all national character, interests that have crossed with those political ones other than those strictly inherent to the site of Terni. I quote - for example - the entirely political problem of reaggregation of the left centre, with the rise in the field of the party of trade unionists and other realities that have tried to capture the story. I would like to mention an entirely regional issue concerning the forthcoming elections in Umbria, on which the situation of steel mills will weigh heavily: the Umbrian Democratic Party probably has at its heart the fate of the steel works and those of the Region, which obviously arose politically. Alongside all this we have a completely non-existent PD political chain, which starts from the city of Terni but cannot even reach the Region, and let alone in Parliament and the Government or in Europe. Moreover, there are the mistakes committed for decades by national politics, but above all by the local one, decades during which numerous choices have been made and not choices that have severely penalized the territory. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u70	Colleagues, I invite you - especially Senator Malan and his Group's colleagues - to give Senator Lucidi a chance to make his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u71	You're welcome, Senator. LUCIDES (M5S). Thank you, President. The signal of the lack of a correct political attitude on the matter and the litmus test of the absence of politics were the clashes of Rome, which for a few days catalysed the attention, moving it elsewhere to what is the central heart of the issue, that is the total lack of a decisive vision, strategic and perspectives for the company. The central point is that events such as the ternana, but also similar ones - I think, for example, in the case of Taranto, and I am not just referring to industrial issues - need new interlocutors, because the political interlocutors that these realities have had over the past decades have not been adequate. We have an inadequate political class to solve these problems. As a 5 Star Movement we certainly do not want to say that we are the only interlocutors, but we can certainly be new interlocutors, both for civil society, and for the whole industrial world, for the solution of these situations. Let me give an example of everyone, from whom to start. Taranto is a city that, unlike Terni, was attacked by industrial reality. In this situation they have all lost: the institutions, the citizens, the workers and, of course, the political class as well. We cannot allow this to happen to Terni, and I say this not because there is a difference in society, but because we are still in time to resolve the situation. We must therefore set ourselves as new interlocutors, taking up the challenge of trying to bring together the different interests that converge on this reality. It is clear that we can only make these interests coexist if we overcome the limitations due to a lack of political vision, as is apparent from the same motions that have been put forward on this matter. In fact, all the motions have a superficially industrial character: in none, except in ours, there is talk of a fundamental problem for the city of Terni, where the company was asked for the commission for environmental disaster. We know that in Terni there is a very heavy environmental situation, mainly due to the presence of steel mills, but also to other realities. All this is part of a sort of environmental negationism that has been carried out for years in that city. Keeping this situation in mind then means being able to grasp the interests of a whole community. In the premises of our motion we have identified as fundamental the protection in the immediate employment situation of workers; we have also identified, among the fundamental interests, the protection of the environment, the ecosystems surrounding the Terni steel mills and of course the citizens, who are a fundamental part of the story. We know that steel mills fall within one of the SIN (site of national interest) and as a 5 Star Movement we have already asked for the headquarters for environmental disaster. We know that all the motions indicate Terni's steel works as strategic, but nobody has the courage - apart from us - to ask for this company to be declared a plant of national strategic interest. Everyone talks about it, but nobody asks, so we have included this commitment and we sincerely hope it will be accepted, precisely because all the presenters of the various motions have spoken about it. There is also provision for the protection of workers, the environment and citizens, but also for company protection. Understood what terms? First of all we have identified some points of great relaunch of the company, so that it is truly sustainable for the territory, and therefore sustainable also for itself. We have also identified, for example, in the various transfers of ownership that there have been, responsibilities also at the level of quantification of environmental damage. Moreover, fundamental point (I want to repeat it): we have declared the strategicity of this company; which must be done, as it happened for Ilva. With our motion, therefore, referring to the commitments referred to in the device, we first of all ask that an institutional table be kept open and not that it be opened and closed according to the daily needs. This company needs a working table at the Ministry of Economic Development that is constantly open: to local institutions, to the company of course, but also to all other stakeholders. We have asked as a second commitment that the Terni plant is declared a plant of national strategic interest, pursuant to Decree-Law 207 of 2012, converted, with modifications, by law n. 231 of 2012. This is a fundamental point for us. Everyone talks about the strategicity of this site: we must finally declare, black and white, that the Government, and therefore Italy, considers this plant of national strategic interest. Alongside this we have asked for a fundamental thing, namely that a time limit be declared within which the steel works are rethought... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. LUCIDES (M5S). ...in a sustainable way, for the company itself, for workers and for society as a whole, therefore for the whole of the ternan reality. There must also be an exit strategy - which has never been done by national and local politics - which is a possibility that workers will not be confronted with a social confrontation if problems arise. An exit strategy that is always worth having: it is always a good norm of a prudent political class to provide alternative solutions where crisis situations can arise. This has never been done, and we ask for it. We call for, and I conclude, Mr President, of course, the maintenance of employment levels, including by means of instruments that protect moments of employment crisis, starting, for example, from our citizenship income or other instruments, such as solidarity contracts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish. LUCIDES (M5S). We asked for the intervention of the Italian strategic fund, the inclusion of the steel works in the Horizon 2020 programme and the completion of strategic works such as the Viario Orte-Civitavecchia section and the Orte-Falconara railway link. Moreover, we ask that the forecast of the management of the commercial part at local level be included in the industrial plan in a clear and clear way, therefore within the Terni plant. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u72	I address a welcome greeting from the whole Assembly to the students of the Institute of State Higher Education (Istituto di Algeri Marino) in Casoli, in the province of Chieti, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u73	I call Senator De Cristofaro to explain motion 338.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u74	Madam President, in explaining the motion that we have tabled, I would like to say that we too express a feeling of great concern over what is happening during these hours, also in the light, for the truth, of the last meeting at the Ministry of Economic Development, which, as we know, has unfortunately forced the trade unions to give a negative opinion on the plan hypothesis that has been presented. On the other hand, it is still fresh inside all of us the memory of the dramatic events that have happened in the past days, the tensions that have been here in Rome. So, if only for this, we express a great feeling of concern and all the will to offer our contribution, in order to try to get out of this situation, which is unfortunately stalemate. The situation has also been recalled in the interventions of those who preceded me, who - as our motion does - have summarized the state of the art, which is that of a company that has announced the putting in mobility of about 550 employees, to which it could follow a plan of savings from approximately 100 million euros per year, that includes the shutdown of one of the furnaces of the plant, as it was announced in July 2014. Our concern is great, however, because these elements squeak a lot with the underlying data, which instead sees this steel industry as a very large production site, certainly of national interest, for the whole of central Italy. As has been said, some 2,900 employees are employed there and even about 20,000 people benefit from it in terms of income. This story also represents a real test - if we can use this expression - a sort of test bench to understand what remains of the steel policy of our country. Federacciai herself, in the 2013 annual report, spoke of the sector's strategicity for the national economy. Thus, clearly, the AST represents an indispensable component of the production matrix of Umbria and the entire country: as has been recalled, it represents in fact about 20% of the gross domestic product of the entire Region. In the face of this situation and the raw data I have mentioned, which, however, clash with the living flesh of the people in the flesh who work there, it seems to us that the effort that has been made so far, by the Government, is unfortunately completely inadequate. It is completely inadequate, because the negotiation which has started - and which unfortunately is far from being concluded - has not yet seen possible solutions to the crisis with which we are confronted, given the fact that the efforts have not been sufficient to call into question neither the mobility procedures nor the redundancies. This probably happened not by chance, but because the choice made during these weeks and months was wrong, to look too unbalancedly at the interests of the company and not, with the concern that has emerged before everyone's eyes only in the last days, even in a dramatic way, to the gigantic question that concerns the world of work of that city and of that productive area. It would have been very wrong, moreover, for its political message, the hypothesis, advanced in the past, to transfer the negotiation from the Ministry of Economic Development to that of the job and of the social policies, because this would have given the sign of the lack proper of the fundamental theme, that it serves within this discussion, that is, the definition of an industrial policy plan. The political point, which is the heart of our motion, is exactly this, that is the indispensability of the definition of an industrial plan, considering the steel industry as an absolutely decisive and fundamental asset for our country, naturally in a context of great difficulty and with all the cautions and attentions of the case. We too are very concerned and do not forget the data of environmental pollution of that territory, which must be studied, deepened and emphasized. They are an essential part of the reflection that we are making in this case, and that we have done throughout these months, when we have set ourselves the great theme - and the great question that is being put to politics today - of how the interests of the world of work and environmental interests are reconciled and put together, of how to try to build a positive synergy, that puts in place a possible response, that does not mean either dying of hunger, or dying of a state of health compromised by an affair of territorial pollution. I have to say that, unfortunately, in the past weeks too, some of the speeches that policy has put in place have been totally inadequate. For example, the work done by the Italian Members of the European Parliament, apart from some positive exceptions, has been totally inadequate. We believe that this is a very serious responsibility. I would remind you that they have received Terni's workers and have signed with them a document that sets six objectives: to ensure that ThyssenKrupp places AST within a market strategy and international competitiveness; to imagine a modified and redefined industrial plan compared to that of 17 July; to ensure the integrity of the site in all its productive articulations; to imagine a European plan for steel equipped with operational instruments, in particular from the costs of energy; of course, the immediate payment of October wages and new European rules in a new framework of industrial relations. This document, which was also signed, has unfortunately been overturned over the next few hours and has given up the attention of the European Parliament both the condemnation of a behaviour that we believe is totally blackmailing ThyssenKrupp towards workers, and the opposition to heavy redundancies. We think that what happened at European level was indeed a missed opportunity and very wrong action. Over the past few days some timid openings of negotiations have also come from the national government, but it emphasizes once again that we are talking about live meat, so it is not enough and not enough the policy of announcements. We must actually build a dynamic that tries to give concrete answers to the situation that there is in the field, also because to the current state, in fact, the negotiation has failed, the hopes that the next table convoked goes to port are unfortunately very limited and, therefore, the initial will of the company to operate only cuts on the workers in production remains like a boulder and unfortunately is confirmed also during these hours. These statements squeal a little 'with the optimism that you feel alight and with this continuous recourse to the policy of announcements that then, as you can see, manages to modify very little the great open issues and the great industrial crises opened in our country. It should not be forgotten that in this dramatic context, the stability law of 2015 contains a rule that, if it were not dramatic and from our completely wrong point of view, I would call it ironic; this rule, instead of containing effective measures to support employment forternal workers, even contains measures to reduce the IRAP at work that present themselves as a real gift, because they are done regardless of how companies behave and regardless of whether a company actually poses the theme of how to imagine and reset its work or not. In conclusion, we ask the government for a series of very precise commitments. We call for a strong European initiative to relaunch the steel sector as a whole, so important in our country, through a European steel plan. It also calls for the government to take action to ensure that the European Commission keeps ThyssenKrupp in check. It calls for credible recovery prospects, guaranteeing employment protection and social protection for workers, and guarantees of the integrity of the site in all its productive areas. Finally, we ask for the guarantee of the integrity of the site through an upgrade of the plants with extraordinary investments on products, processes and research. Before I close, allow me only one political consideration in 30 seconds. This story, in fact, really does justice to all the nonsense that has been told during these months, when a reality has been represented according to which in Italy there would be an army of underpaid and exploited precarious and, on the other hand, a world of guaranteed workers who, instead, live in a great privilege. This attempt to build this war between the poor was a madlornal nonsense: there is the army of the precarious, but these workers are certainly not guaranteed workers and are certainly not privileged workers. We will oppose each other in every way and with all our strength to prevent this filthy war between the poor from taking place in this country. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u75	I call the Senator-Council to explain motion No 339.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u76	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the North Legacy has tabled the motion which I am preparing to present, which, in our view, is well placed in this dramatic economic and social panorama. I would say that, even in a temporal way, this is a subject that embraces a bit the whole issue of the steel industry, something that has seen this country mark the stage. In the motion we talk about the AST industry in Terni, which is one of the world's leading producers of stainless steel. The company has modern facilities with high product quality, research and innovation capacity and - not least - a human heritage of expertise of absolute value in a territory where the steel culture has deep roots and centenary. It's about AST, but it's like we're talking about Ilva di Taranto, Ferriera di Trieste or Lucchini di Piombino. If we talk about these companies, and many more, it is easy for us to have a representation of the very difficult moment that the steel industry is going through, especially in this country. Theast of Terni, a steel pole that, as we said, plays a strategic role for the national and European economy, produces quality steels. It alone contributes to 15% of Umbria's regional GDP, employing some 5,000 workers between the workforce and the workforce. It is estimated that, with this economic input, about 20,000 people benefit from economic reflexes. There are about 2,800 direct employees of the company and a myriad activities in the induced. This group, after several transfers of ownership, still returns to ThyssenKrupp, a company that presented the general lines of the new industrial plan for AST. This plan would be structured from a two-year perspective, which includes five cornerstones: increase in profitability, optimization of production structures, optimization of costs, rationalization of the structure of the group. We can certainly agree with these points if there were not, as always, strong doubts and many but: doubts that this plan has aroused and continues to arouse as a strong concern among the workers, because of all these five points there was not even a shadow. On the other hand, there was only the suspension of the industrial plan and the immediate mobility of 580 workers, then the subject of passages on several tables, not least that of the Ministry of Economic Development. Then we want to talk a little about Europe, because this mom that everyone relies on every now and then - not always - is cheating on her. The North League is right to be very, very perplexed about its ability to be useful to our country as well. The steel industry in the European Union is in a phase of strong evolution and profound change: a process of change forced by the strong expansion of the steel industry in countries such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. It follows, Madam President, that it is difficult to implement a European industrial policy in an area where strategic choices are taken elsewhere. Europe, to be honest, has also moved on with a motion for a resolution by the European Parliament on the adoption of a plan for a competitive and sustainable European steel industry. The substantive points of this proposal can be summarised in improving the general environment and employment, in actions to increase the competitiveness of the European steel industry, in research, development and innovation, in climate protection and in reducing the environmental impact. More or less the points included in ThyssenKrupp's plan for the AST plant. But precisely on the subject of employment, those of you who have had the opportunity to read this resolution will have realised that in point 11 it is considered that the absence of an adequate European industrial policy will result in a loss of competitiveness for European industry in the long term - I would say in the short term - due to extremely high energy costs and the cost of raw materials, resulting in the restructuring of the steel industry and therefore in serious social problems due to the drastic fall in jobs. The European Union is therefore well aware of these issues. Furthermore, in paragraph 16 of the motion for a resolution, it is reiterated that the crisis in the sector must not lead to unfair competition in employment between the Member States of Europe. Well, if these two points are acceptable - and they are certainly true - it will be necessary to explain to this House why German producers have made efforts to consolidate their hegemony on the European market and why not even casual pairs the opposition of the German representatives, who have expressed in the Community about the shared management of the crisis afflicting the European steel industry. As a result, the representatives of the German industry see the crisis in the dark: they certainly see it as an opportunity rather than a risk. It also follows that the absence, repeatedly highlighted by us in this House, of a serious industrial policy of this Government brings our country into a second category in the European negotiations (let us imagine ourselves, Mr President, in the world negotiations). Our motion is therefore timely in calling for both electric furnaces to be kept in operation; to evaluate the adoption of alternative contractual arrangements, with respect to redundancies, such as solidarity contracts adopted for establishments which are in Germany but which have been refused for the establishment; to intervene on the issue of energy supply, a very important problem for an energy-intensive company such as steel. It is also called upon with determination to demand that Europe put in place every initiative aimed at effectively protecting the national strategic value of AST; to adopt every initiative, even of a financial nature, for the re-launching of the company and, which we strongly urge, that the greatest attention be paid to discourage phenomena of industrial relocation, which would result in a loss of industrial capacity of this country and the occupational desertification of an entire region. We ask the government to roll up its sleeves and bring home the result, at least for once. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u77	I call Senator Pelino to explain motion No 341.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u78	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motions before us propose a particular problem relating to a single factory, the AST of Terni, founded in 1884, but at the same time they also highlight a general problem. The general problem is to understand where the market ends and where the regulation of Europe begins. Above all, it must be understood whether the regulation of Europe can restrict the growth of a European company in such a wrong way, in the specific case, the Finnish Outokumpu, on the grounds of antitrust. It is necessary to ask whether before the dominant position of a company, in the specific case of special steels, the multiannual industrial plan, the levels of revenue growth that this guarantees and the effects on the maintenance, i.e. the increase in employment levels, should not be evaluated. Italy is holding the Presidency of the European Semester and, therefore, President Renzi can and must exert influence among the European bodies. The decisions of the European Commissioners - obviously instructed by the European bureaucracy - are not decisions without political implications; they are not only technical decisions, but are influenced by politics. Germany's influence in Europe is enormous and even the decision to limit the growth of a global steel leader, such as Outokumpu, can and must be reviewed if the implications of the medal of containing a supposed dominant position are the loss of turnover for a large industrial group and, above all, the loss of jobs. The fields are therefore two: the European headquarters in the first place and the Italian one. The Ministry of Economic Development must address the serious problem of maintaining jobs. The negotiations at ministerial level - let us suggest - must not therefore be to seek ways of exit, such as access to social shock absorbers. These are routes that can only be temporary and last a few months. The prospect must be to evaluate a new serious and sustainable industrial plan, together with the business leaders of AST and their reference shareholders. The plan must be of growth and not of waterline. If ThyssenKrupp is not in a position to guarantee this, other roads will be assessed in Europe and the possibility of introducing a person who is able to ensure its growth into the Terni Special Steels industrial project will be considered. These Germans can't back down! If they have decided to occupy a space, thanks to European antitrust rules, they must now take full and full responsibility for it. Three weeks of agitation in the factory have already passed and another week awaits us before the day of the meeting at the MISE scheduled for November 18. Of the 290 workers involved in the redundancies plan, 150 should have accepted a voluntary exit. The plan to open one of the two blast furnaces seven days a week and the other five out of seven seems to us to be a strategy of defence and not a strategy of revival. AST represents direct work for Terni and a wide and varied induced. The anger of Terni's workers resulting in the clashes in Rome square is perfectly and humanly understandable. All our closeness and solidarity goes to them, just as it goes to the agents entrusted with a very delicate task. We ask Minister Guidi and you, Deputy Minister De Vincenti, to take responsibility for the discomfort of our country towards these industrial subjects who consider Italy as a country with limited responsibility. If the German company ThyssenKrupp wanted to occupy a space that could be taken from another company that had a longer-term industrial plan, it now has to take over. We are confident that the headquarters of the Ministry for Economic Development can solve the temporary problem, also together with the Ministry of Labour. If the problem - as we have tried to point out - is Europe, then President Renzi must take care of it. He still has two months as President of the European Semester. For once you show that it doesn't just move through slogans and tackle in Europe the very serious problem of steel in Italy: Terni, Piombino and Taranto are only the main junctions. Let us return to the decisions taken by the new Commissioner for Competition of the Junker Commission, the Danish Vestager. This is an internal mess of European rules and it is at European level that we must resolve. The transfer of the site to Outokumpu by ThyssenKrupp and the subsequent repurchase of the site by the German industrial group is a consequence of a wrong decision taken by the Commission to competition. And that is where a different assessment must be sought today, even in the light of the different conditions of the global market in the steel sector. So, to conclude, we ask the Government to commit: firstly, to verify in the European context, for what reasons has been accused the Finnish group Outokumpu of abuse of dominant position, when the latter had worked to invest in Italy making the Terni site productive center of the Mediterranean area; therefore to bring out - strong of the Presidency of the European Semester - the importance of the Terni site, as well as to urge ThyssenKrupp to carry out the commitments required by the European Commission during the re-acquisition of the Terni site; to adopt a more incisive and comprehensive action aimed at removing the Oltranziste positions put in place by ThyssenKrupp and to make every effort to prevent layoffs; to route a fruitful contradiction between the summits of the German company and the management of AST, in order to safeguard the productions and volumes, as well as the unity and integrity of the site and the levels of employment, through a courageous industrial plan. These decisions will certainly prevent the possibility of street clashes between the Forces of order and the workers, episodes that we no longer want to review. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u79	I declare the debate open. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u80	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of time, my speech will not be able to recall the whole dispute of the Terni steel mills. However, it must be remembered that it is a complex affair, which has lasted for ten years now. The various transfers of ownership of the steel works have brought the Umbrian plant back into the hands of ThyssenKrupp. The real and real risk at this moment is the dismantling of the national steel industry, which is considered one of the European excellences. The plan presented by ThyssenKrupp for AST assumes, in fact, the closure of one of the current two electric blast furnaces. All this implies the loss of employment of 550 workers and the renegotiation of staff contracts, with a total decrease of 10% compared to current contractual levels. The industrial plan thus formulated would entail very high social and industrial costs both on the direct employment of the group and on the activities and the enterprises of the induced one. The multinational would act mainly on labour costs by reducing employment, despite the minimal proportion it represents on AST's turnover. Billed that, it is well to remember, it exceeds annually the 2 billion euros. We witness, for the umpteenth time, a company crisis that does not depend on workers but on company choices that have bounced the property of AST from one hand to another, without there being a real intention to keep production in Terni of stainless steel. In this affair, the Italian Government also has heavy responsibilities. The most serious of all, in my opinion, is to have given up the attention of the European Parliament both the blackmailing behaviour of ThyssenKrupp and the heavy redundancies provided for by the multinational's industrial plan. We must remember, in fact, that the re-acquisition procedure in November 2013 provided for ThyssenKrupp to provide the Commission with a plan of activities and investments aimed at improving the profitability of the production site. None of this happened. On the contrary, it is evident the overall strategic design of ThyssenKrupp, which presupposes the definitive choice to leave the market of the inoxidable. We also note that the European Commission is relentless with the states in difficulty, but is ready to turn a blind eye to the failure of a multinational. I therefore wonder what the Italian Presidency of the European Semester is for. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Why doesn't the government make its voice heard in Brussels to defend one of the strategic sites of the Italian economy? It is now clear to everyone that this is a social bomb with very serious consequences. Italian companies, without a policy of investment and public protection, risk being bought cheaply by foreign multinationals. The latter's objective is clear: in a globalised economy, large corporations want to achieve a downward leveling of the wages of workers located in different countries. As long as we continue to tolerate this sort of thing we could only complain about the closure of other companies and the loss of thousands of jobs. For these reasons the Government must absolutely commit, alongside the unions, to the maintenance and the valorization of the current industrial plant, the preservation of the productive volumes and the occupational levels of the steel mills of Terni. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u81	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the special steels of Terni, which in the last month alone, due to the well-known events due to the mobilization of workers and the clashes of the police, has won the attention of the Italian public, has actually occupied for more than two years the living body of Terni, a community of more than 100,000 inhabitants. The history of the AST represents as never before the sense of isolation and, sometimes, of true abandonment that compared to the circuits of communication and those of national politics are forced to live many local realities that much more than many narratives and propaganda in fashion would have the possibility to describe the difficult economic, social and civil time that we are living. This parliamentary debate takes place in difficult hours because they were confirmed just yesterday evening both the garrison of the workers of Terni, and the strike. On the one hand, as the discussion on the start of the extraordinary integration fund for 200 ILSERV employees is about to begin in Perugia, on the other because the positions reaffirmed by the company yesterday by CEO Morselli are still far from those demanded by workers in struggle for the defence of their workplace. On the part of the Government, which is also actively dealing with the problem, it is difficult to indulge in easy optimisms, if we consider that companies and unions are still divided by three qualifying points: production volumes, investments to be made and 290 redundancies that remain in the field. First of all, there is a problem of indifference which concerns Europe. A few days ago I was very impressed by a statement by the former President of the European Central Bank, Jean Claude Trichet, issued on an Italian transmission in which I participated, in which he candidly explained that he was not aware of the ThyssenKrupp affair, an affair which, even in recent years, has involved the economic interests of countries such as Finland, Sweden and Germany at the continental level. But even more noteworthy are the statements of the new EU Competition Commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, who said just yesterday: I understand the difficulty for workers, but the solutions for workers should not be found in my office. I hope they're with the owners of the company. I stress this aspect not to join the chorus of anti-European juggling, but to highlight the delays and difficulties that we have had as an Italy system in knowing how to place with due authority a great industrial issue that concerns the national and European interests of the Mediterranean side, while ThyssenKrupp is foreseeing a reduction of the workforce in Terni in the strategic interest of the steel producers of Northern Europe and Germany in particular. If there is a European geography of special steels, a production pole of excellence - I stress the term "excellence" - like that of Terni would have every right to be present if only - and I come to the second point of my speech - there was an industrial policy worthy of this name in Italy. An industrial policy that has been lacking since 2008 was planned by the then Minister Bersani the "Industry Plan 2015" that the subsequent Berlusconi government fell guilty and that today, due to the economic crisis, we have difficulty to resume. The centuries-old Italian manufacturing and industrial vocation must be relaunched through public and private investments that must find in the current Government not a place of division of the world of work and of weakening the intermediate bodies, in the name of the new religion of disintermediation, but a driving and challenging centre, for example by placing to Europe the question of the separation from the calculation of the deficit of the debt realized for productive and investment purposes. Terni's Special Steelworks account for 20% of Umbria's GDP, but it is not just this; they outline a perspective of development and the hope of a region beaten like the others by the difficult economic situation that in some way are the heart and metaphor of Italy as a whole. If we do not intervene with politics and the instruments of politics, to disintermediate, they will remain only the naked anger of the workers and the inactivity desolation of a community, which may perhaps be exploited for electoral purposes, but will never allow the ransom of our country: the objective to which as a Democratic Party and Government we have the duty, the possibility and the responsibility to commit ourselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u83	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u84	Madam President, we spoke a moment ago about these motions in an authentic and anachronistic language at the same time, a language that was fashionable probably in the 1970s, when the State had the imperative to be an entrepreneur and, therefore, considering some sectors, such as energy, steel and transport, strategic, managed them in their own right and badly, through state participations. Today these sectors have left a legacy of about 12,000 companies, half of which produces about 4 billion deficits. But more than the damage of the past, the real damage is in the form of mentis and in the approach, of which I have just had proof, not because it does not want to defend employment levels, but to hear that the State must be concerned, in the name and on behalf of a private company, to guarantee the volumes of productivity, so that it can defend employment levels, is a veritable blasphemy in the globalized world and in the market economy. The truth is, if I may say so, that we are giving back the unholy state of the past years, in which the State has done, in a regime at sans façon, the entrepreneur, which is why we have subsequently served the sale for bankruptcy of these companies: to entrepreneurs like Riva with the steel mills of Taranto; in Bagnoli we have closed them and we still have a few thousand cash integrated after twenty or twenty-five years that are on the crotch of the taxpayers, and the same thing happened in the old red fief of Terni with the ThyssenKrupp steel mills. There is a small detail: entrepreneurs do business and have to earn profits. Where profits are reduced or no longer present, industrial policy requires either the cutting of labour or the closure of factories. I say this because I asked the last two Presidents of the Council what kind of government they were presiding over, not getting answers. If it were governments that had the imprimatur of socialism, of a vision of the state entrepreneur, omnipotent and omnipresent or of liberal governments in which was the law of the market, though temperate and respectful of the needs of individuals and their rights, to have to determine the course of things? Well, in the case of the Terni steel works, we are faced with the contingency of a large international group that - as in the case of Meridiana and as in the case of the mines of Sulcis - is faced with a difficulty in maintaining employment levels because the production costs are higher than the competing counterparts and similar companies located in Europe and in the world. These production costs, especially in industrial production where the cost of energy has a decisive impact, are higher because we have made energy choices that have very often been demagogic so that the unit cost for steel or the unit cost for the activities that require the use of electricity or energy is objectively higher. This is because there is a cost of production at the base that in this nation leads to increased costs. So, I'm sorry, who do you want me to pay? Thyssen? But Thyssen closes and goes away because it obeys the rules of the enterprise and there can be no additional compensatory pillars charged to the Erario in order to achieve what is then the ultimate goal of the gangherate action of the statism, that is to privatise the profits and to publicize the losses. This is the fate that statism faces. So what's the real problem? The real problem is to have an industrial policy that does not have its core in the state of business. Because with the ILVA, in Taranto, we will be the ones that will take us the seven, eight billion needed to clean up the company, because we need to protect the health of the workers. In this case, instead, Pantalone will put more money in Thyssen's pockets to ensure the return of the 290-300 workers who run the risk of going to the integration fund or being fired. When is it that we in this Parliament want to tackle at the root the problems of the crisis of the Italian State, of the State of the entrepreneur? I want to tell you not an anecdote, but a fact that is history. After selling Montedison to Gardini, we realized that Gardini wanted to make an industrial policy, that is, he wanted to close the sulphur factories that were in Puglia because circumnavigating Italy to supply himself with sulfur to make matches did not agree. The political power of that time - the various Craxi, Formica, Andreotti and Forlani - decided that that type of policy could not be done, because those factories decotte represented the flagship of the state clientelism and, therefore, it was necessary to look at the levels of employment, and not at the indices of profitability and productivity. We then bought back from Gardini four times the price of the shares, after having put back about 1,000 billion contributory and tax reliefs, and from this return of flame came out the maxi bribe, the mother of all the bribes, of 300 billion lire that Cusani distributed. But no one has ever posed the problem of how much Montedison's sale cost us. These are thousands of billions. The system never tried itself. We have inquisited the political forces for bribes, but not for the waste of public money, because we want to make an industrial policy that we do not know and do not have to do, because the state is not responsible for doing this - ontologically it is wrong - and then we demand that entrepreneurs make philanthropists and put us back, therefore, in the pocket, and this is an antithesis to the logic of the enterprise. So, either this is where we deal with the question of what the state should do or... president. You have to finish, Senator D'Anna. The problem is complex. D'ANNA (GAL). I'm going to conclude. Then you can make all the motions of this world. You can launch all the appeals of this world. Jobs, however, are saved if conditions are created for lower labour costs and productivity to be competitive in a globalised world. Otherwise, despite the crying of the prephycs accompanying the dead, despite the crying of these priceless women, dead was and died remained. [[Applause from Senators Langella and Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u86	Madam President, we were asking ourselves, and we are also asking the Government in a rhetorical way: what did the Italian Presidency of the European Union do? [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] If President Renzi's words are to be meaningful, then we should be able to draw up a list of the advantages of our industry today and, above all, to talk about the importance of our problems submitted to the European Commission. On the other hand, we are still today taking note of a situation of total remissivity and what the new Commissioner for Competition Vestager said a few hours ago leaves no room - as I said - for doubts about the dialogue for the AST Terni dispute. I read to you directly from the Agency, as in its first public intervention, during a hearing in the European Parliament in Brussels, it candidly stated: The decision shall be taken. I understand the difficulty for workers, but the solutions for workers should not be found in my office. I hope they're with the owners of the company. Well, that is the commitment that has been made since the Government's reply a few weeks ago in the course of the 14th question. Commission by Senator Rossi, to the question whether it did not think it appropriate to express to the new European Commissioner for Competition his position on the ongoing industrial negotiations presented by AST. On that occasion, the Government said: In this regard, I can give an account that the Government is committed... and that steel is an important thing. Therefore, the strategy that the Government is pursuing in the many disputes to which to highlight, and its role as President-in-Office of the European Union, the Government is strongly committed to achieving this objective. Therefore, the Government will also take all necessary steps in the new Commission to represent this position. Bravo! Give it up! [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bignami.]] That is what you have managed to do. The new Commissioner who took over made a press release with which he candidly stated that this is an Italian affair that we must manage and of which he does not want to know anything. Is that the government's commitment, Undersecretary De Vincenti? I would also like undersecretary Gozi to be here, who came to the Senate this morning, before the Joint Commissions 3 a and 14a, to report on the results of the last European summit, the one to which President Renzi participated with so much verve. The results, however, are those that give satisfaction to the demands of the country, not those that humiliate it, while today, unfortunately, we are discussing a whole series of motions - which I hope will be voted unanimously by all the groups present - to give support to the activity of Special Steels Terni SpA, with a Government that is substantially remissive. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder and ask you what the significance of our political action is today: is it a question of engaging the Government with actions that the same facts are proving to be outdated? The government committed itself a few months ago to highlighting certain issues; the result today is that the European Union responds to us that it is our Italian business. We must then question the significance of our participation in the Community system. If there are any interests to be pursued, it should be those of our country because - and I invite the Government to open its eyes or at least not to remain indifferent - the Germans do the interests of the Germans, as well as the French ones of the French. We, on the other hand, dance all the time to be convinced Europeans. But, for God's sake, let's try to be even a little more proud of our industry and our capabilities, otherwise we will simply be remembered as those who have delivered the country's industrial capacity to multinationals, who do not respect the country in terms of work and product, but take advantage of its opportunities, then returning the empty box, when everything has now been used. If European rules do not go well, they change; they say no, they point their feet, making it clear that the rules on competition favour a crushing of our industry. On this the government must make commitments. Today we will vote on these motions, but I am afraid, unfortunately, with a hollow result, because the same negotiation in progress at the Ministry was blocked yesterday afternoon - from 14 had already been postponed to 17 - after Minister Guidi postponed everything to next Tuesday, waiting to evaluate an industrial plan whose content is abundantly known and with respect to which the trade union parties have already declared their dissatisfaction, while the property has already declared irremovability. But be careful because, if the solution is to expand the problems and postpone the time when to deal with them, there is no other effect than to split the scenario and we already know what this produces: a part of employees will be fired, after which it will give the impression or illusion that the company intends to reinvest on AST and Terni. But then an oven will be turned off, there will be the dismissal of other employees, until the complete emptying of the plant. Then we have to ask ourselves why we get to all this. Mr President, some time ago - and we are only talking about last year - articles appeared in the press referring to agreements between the Luxembourg Asperam, Itanox and Marcegaglia funds for the purchase of special steels Terni (AST). But to me, colleagues in the Democratic Party, there is the doubt that you are doing a flagship battle in the end, knowing well that the Government will never defend this situation because AST today is owned by ThyssenKrupp which, like many other multinationals - it is what is emerging - also has its own tax base in Luxembourg. Then the multinational we are talking about is not making an industrial plan to relaunch the industry in our country; it is simply releasing parts of productive activity, because the industrial cost of steel production in Italy is too high. If today we talk about how to give protection and social protection to AST employees and do not seriously discuss the cost of energy in this country, people are deceived and steel production is destined to be succumbed. This is not the way to defend Italian industry. We therefore call on the Government to make a very strong commitment, a commitment that takes into account, in Europe, the costs of energy, which we would like to hear about. Let's just give you one more thing, Mr. President. At the end of August there were 30 billion foreign investments that failed in Italy and, at the end of September, there were another 37 billion out of the country. If we also add - since we are talking about ThyssenKrupp and Germany - that the level of investment of German banks in Italy has returned to that of 2004, we realize that there is a disinvestment in this country, because clearly the industrial indices of recovery are not satisfactory at all. So, out of the words of rhetoric, which we hear too often, even in these motions and from the Government, that everything is fine, that we are recovering, this is a country that, without investment and without a strong industrial policy, is forced to dispose; therefore, it means to give illusion to the employees and to the country. As was correctly said a few days ago, there is a significant asynchronousness between perbenism and the very softened words that are spent on recovery and the real situation, the one that is lived on the sidewalks, in the factories. This is the situation we need to be aware of and to be aware of, and I repeat: I would not want to neglect behind those tax interests that bring companies, as in the case of FIAT, to disinvest in Italy and to move a tax office to Lussembergo, the other to Holland, another to London and perhaps to share on the New York Stock Exchange. If the demands for steel production are also lost, because there is an industrial crisis, and the same production, in the specific case of cars, is no longer made in Italy but abroad, they are all elements that must make the Government say: let's take this seriously. We want to see you in Europe going to bet your feet and hit your fists; then you really are defending the Italian industry. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] , not simply coming here to have a flag motion passed and then to say: here, we have thought about it, but in the end the European Union (these bad guys!) They won't listen to us. What else is the Italian presidency of the European Union for? Taking some good pictures and some nice selfies? (Addressing to the Undersecretary who is speaking on the phone.) Undersecretary De Vicenti, are you telling this to the President of the Renzi Council of Ministers? Tell him: we don't need his photographs; we need concrete answers, solutions to problems. So once again we say to the government: what is the purpose of the Presidency of the European Union? We believe, Mr President, that these motions must be adopted - we hope - unanimously. We are willing to take any action to give positive answers, which are not just those of social shock absorbers, but the long vision of an industry that gives work because it is able to stand on the market, otherwise it means deceiving people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u87	Today is a day of visits! I address a welcome greeting from the Assembly to the students of the State Middle School of Catania, who have come to know the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u88	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u89	Madam President, since the beginning of this dispute, the call of the workers of the Terni steel works and their representatives has been to not be left alone by politics, at all levels, in the face of this umpteenth blackmail. Once again, however, we are witnessing the fact that workers are in fact left alone by politics: their families, and, I dare say, Terni and all of Italy in the world of work are left alone by this policy. They give themselves the numbers: 550, now 290. Let me remind myself first and then all the others, that when we talk about 290 workers, we talk about 290 families, and if we also introduce the workers concerned of the first and second levels of the induced, we talk about thousands of workers: other thousands of families that have to live drama without precedent because of this policy. So, before we give the numbers, let's be very careful what we say. This dispute has been very serious since the first moment: it has been three weeks since the workers have been on permanent strike, they have lived and have experienced dramatic situations, situations of isolation, as I said before, from politics. It is useless to remember that on my part, on the part of the Misto-SEL Group all solidarity goes to those workers, without if, without but without hypocrisy. I say this because I know what it means - I know because I have lived it - to live these tragedies, these dramatic situations when you are not serene, when the family, your loved ones are anxious for you, for your struggle for dignity. So, I really get it. So I find it rather strange, to say the least - the dispute is so serious, that I do not want to add other adjectives, perhaps offensive, even if it would be necessary - that this Government leaves more time to decide, we do not know what. The trade unions and their trade union representatives have been very clear about the fact that there has been no opening, yet we continue to give time and, in doing so, we continue to leave the workers alone, who should wait another week, under these conditions, perhaps even suffering some blackmails, which as always arrive in a petty way, with the proposal to return to work, because in this way something could be reopened. Once again, instead of being at the side of the workers, someone decides to try to separate them, to break the unity of the workers: I believe that this is not worthy of a democratic government. There is little more to add. We have been saying this for a long time: in Italy we need a real labour policy and an industrial plan that have been fugitive for years. Instead, we use the usual half-breeds, including those contained in the jobs act, the usual half-breeds of the 19th century, aimed at removing protection from the workers. It is thought that by subtracting the protection of workers, even if the facts have long shown us the opposite, an extraordinary plan for work can be created. I repeat this forcefully: when workers are deprived of their rights and when democracy is removed from the workplace, not only is employment not produced, but it is abolished. In fact, history teaches that if democracy and freedom do not prevail in work, the worker will be forced to accept any condition in order to maintain his job. But you pretend not to notice all this, but it does nothing: we say it, we will say it forcefully and we will never tire of saying it. I want to remind the House that every day we come here to make hypocrisy and give very good speeches, but every day layoffs take place in the workplace. Yesterday, intervening at the end of the sitting, I recalled the dismissal of a worker and a few weeks ago I recalled the suspension of the work of the two drivers of a road haulage company, who had allowed themselves to be seen, in a television broadcast, in what state the vehicles are in. It is today the news that a member of the RSU, as well as a representative of the safety workers (RLS) of a factory in Chiusi, Metalzinco di Siena, has been fired in the trunk. This is the future that awaits us, this is the future that the Government is looking forward to. I am no longer willing to allow people to continue talking about things that do not exist: I do not say that they cannot be done, but I want to remember strongly that this is not the right way. Therefore, if you really want to give answers to the workers of the Terni steel works, you can do so, if the whole House is serious about building policies worthy of a civil country, which has an industrial policy perspective. Instead, once again we realize that the answers are not there, or that when there are, they are vague and hypocritical. I would ask you to respect the workers seriously, because the situation is truly dramatic, as I repeat in all my speeches. I have the good fortune - or bad luck, it depends on the point of view - to talk every day to the workers of various companies and what happens in the world of work - not in the labour market, but in the world of work - should make us all reflect. It should make us think carefully, without hypocrisies, without coming here to make good speeches, endorsing policies that go in the opposite direction from what the workers and the world of work ask us instead. That's what we need to talk about. Always talking about hypocrisies, I would like to point out what the serious problem is. In Europe we must be on the right track. Today the real problem is precisely Europe because there is a lack of a serious and united labour policy; there is a lack of common rules and rights at work in Europe. We must talk about this in order to rebuild Europe and not make hypocrisy. If it happens in Europe that we can relocate to Serbia, Poland or Romania, and have rules totally different from those that should be in Europe, but what are we talking about? What are we talking about? I've got an idea and I'll bring it back to you as I think it is. These are the policies that have long been trying to make strong powers. The class struggle of which someone speaks has never ended, only that it is now on the contrary; it has been launched, with an unprecedented attack, by strong powers and masters towards the world of work. The policy, which should serve to defend workers and bridge the gap between workers and strong powers, is unarmed in the face of these attacks. This is the serious reflection that must be done if we are to defend the workers of the Terni steel works and the other 160 open tables. I remember that every day a new crisis emerges and this policy is proving unarmed in the face of these problems. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u90	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u91	Madam President, I would like to make a speech by trying to broaden our vision of the steel situation in our country. In this way we begin to focus the problem in its globality. From the data that Federacciai provides us, the part of Confindustria that deals with steel, we know that we had three blast furnaces; one in Piombino, one in Taranto and one in Trieste. Piombino's is, however, dead. We have two oxygen converters that are used to transform cast iron into steel in Piombino and Taranto; for that of Piombino it is always worth the same speech. We have 17 electric ovens all over the country. Speaking of blast furnaces, we are reminded of the history of Italsider that was closed because Germany told us that we were producing too much steel and now we are the ThyssenKrupp that produces steel in Italy. The employees count 70,000 people, including the induced, with about 36,000 direct employees. What are the numbers of steel production in Italy? We know that in Italy we produce a total of 24 million tonnes of steel and 7 million tonnes of cast iron. Our competitors, first of all China, produce 780 million tons. So we produce 3% of the steel that China produces. In the world, 1,600 million tonnes of steel are produced; therefore, Italian production accounts for 1.5% of world production. We are the second producers after Germany, which produces 43 million tonnes. We are also the best in Europe to recycle ferrous material. Much of the steel we produce comes from recycling; this is our strength. Why all these numbers? Because we need to understand what strategy we want to implement on steel policies, and so we need to expand the discussion. When we see that we produce 7 million tons of steel from converter, thus transforming the cast iron into steel, and another 7 we reduce it to cast iron, we say that about 45 percent of all production comes from blast furnace, while the national production is attested to a higher value. So if we, from today to tomorrow, shut down the blast furnaces, we'd be in a position to import steel. If we want to have a broad view of what we have to do, we have to think about how to change this, because all blast furnace-based production produces serious environmental risks, also because - let's not forget - we have to import iron ore (and, in fact, Italy imports 11.5 million tonnes of iron ore from abroad), not to mention the coal we need to make the blast furnace package. So, we should guess what we want to do. We want to think from here to, I don't know, ten years (the least politics should have) and understand what the vision we want to have? Get out of the blast furnace cycle? We should maximise the amount of steel we can recycle; we must become even stronger; we must become more and more leaders in this sector; we must recover all the steel we can. Probably, we must also understand that steel, which is an extremely versatile material and an excellent construction material, we must use it well. Then we must assume a path: this is our task. We should understand that, intervening in various sectors (on changing the use of materials and on the absolute increase of what is our ability to recycle the material), we would allow Italy to improve also the balance of payments, because we should no longer import material. So, starting from the Terni crisis, we want to understand what strategy we have on steel, to get out of the blastfurnace industry with all the benefits we can get in terms of both health and economic. I am thinking of the health cost of Taranto, just to mention the most striking case. We need to understand the strategy that the government offers us, not only to improve the country's conditions, reducing the expenditure in the balance of payments due to import, but also to reduce the health cost. We need to understand the strategy we have on steel, because otherwise we are always talking about Terni and every company crisis and we never get out of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We ask the government: what is your policy on steel for the next ten years or, even better, twenty years? What are you gonna do? That's what you have to tell us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u92	Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u93	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, we are today discussing the special steels Terni spa. It is a society that has a long history: it was founded in 1884 in the city of Terni and, precisely thanks to the entrepreneurial ability of those who founded it, entered by law into the elite of the Italian and European steel industry; an ascent that led it to be world leader, above all, as I said before, for the entrepreneurial capacity, as well as for the extensive water resources, but also for its geographical position on the Italian soil and for the competitive workforce. In 1988 it sold its facilities to ILVA, IRI group, and in 1994 it was completely privatised. Terni spa finally passed under the full control of Thyssen in 2001. From 2009 to 2011, changes were made to ThyssenKrupp's corporate structure and the production of stainless steel was entrusted to Global Stainless, and then, at a later stage, to dismember it, creating an independent entity called Inoxum. In November 2012, the European Commission approved the acquisition of the Finnish group Outokumpu, which operates in stainless steel production, making the work of the stainless steel production plants located in Terni conditional. In November 2013, the Outokumpu Group announced that it had concluded an agreement with ThyssenKrupp, giving up its activities in Terni steel works, as requested by the European Commission. Special Steel Terni is one of the main suppliers of flat stainless steel laminates for every type of industry: from power supply to household appliances, to construction, including transport, mechanics and steel. We are talking about a company that employs 2,800 people and creates an input of about 20,000 people who benefit from it in terms of work. Over the last two years the crisis has hit the Special Steels Terni and has led the company, in July 2014, to present a new industrial plan that provides for a linear occupational cut of 550 units in two years, as well as the closure of the second furnace by the year 2016. A recovery plan, the one proposed, that turns out inadmissible and needs substantial and concrete modifications, especially for the situation of the employment and the industrial perspectives of the entire site of Terni. The double passage of the Terni steel works, first in Finnish hands and then in German hands, has overturned the Finnish expansionary first floor to the advantage of the plants located in Germany to the detriment of the Italian ones, who have responded with strikes of the workers descended to the square, causing clashes of square with the authorities, and demonstrations starting in August 2014. On 29 October, during a demonstration organized by the workers of the Special Steels Terni against the company ThyssenKrupp, which provided layoffs for 550 employees, there were new clashes between mini-festivals and forces of the order. The whole of Umbria and the city of Terni are on their knees and the demonstrations and protests with the marches remain the only voice of those who still have a job and are supportive with those who are losing it or who unfortunately already no longer have it. The Italian Government still has a month and a half, until the end of the European semester (December 2014), to be able to reverse the situation in favour of Italian workers and protect the sacrosanct right to work. It is expected that the government will take decisions in favour of growth and development, which Italy needs as much as all other countries of the European Union. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u94	Given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u97	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I asked to speak because the news is spreading that in Palermo there is a tritolo to carry out an attack on Dr. Di Matteo. I imagine that for anyone operating in an area like that in which Dr. Di Matteo works, news of this kind may not be new, but it means being subjected to a very high level of tension. Now, I believe it is the responsibility of all the institutions and of this House in particular, now, to express its closeness to Dr. Di Matteo and to signal to the Mafia, in clear terms and with strong signals, that Dr. Di Matteo is not the only obstacle, it is not the obstacle to the activity of ours, but each of us is equally strong obstacle. This would weaken the threat to the servants of the state who are in trenches and avoid - because they must avoid - further state funerals. I participated, together with the Palermons, in the State funerals for the death of Dr. Giovanni Falcone and there must be no other case like this: we must think about it first. For Dr. Di Matteo it has been asked for a long time the use of a bomb jammer, a frequency disturbing device that prevents the use of remote controls in the vicinity of a certain possible objective, which in this area, as we know, is very used. I would ask you, Madam President, to speak to the Government so that we can address this issue in this House and know what the Government intends to do against this threat, to restore serenity to the work of so many servants of the State. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Petris and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u98	Thank you, Senator Campanella, the Presidency shares your concern. I believe, however, that if you consider presenting an act of inspection union, the Government will be able to answer on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-349.ana.u99	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.55 p.m.
