ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u7	Colleagues, I know that this week, unfortunately, has been a sad repeat (we have also observed a minute of silence during Tuesday and Wednesday sessions), but even today I invite you to observe a minute of recollection for the deceased lady in Muggia, in the province of Trieste, once again as a result of the tragic alluvial events. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u8	Colleagues, at the first point of the agenda we would have had the discussion of the bill n. 1612 of conversion of Decree-Law n. 132, of which I have a certain difficulty to pronounce also the title, but being previewed the vote of the resignation introduced of Senator Ghedini for 10 hours, in order to avoid to begin the examination of the decree-law and then suspend it in order to move to the vote on the resignation, I propose to anticipate the item of the agenda concerning the resignation, so as to proceed to the vote orientally for the indicated time (at 10 o'clock), in order therefore to continue the work continuously with the examination of the bill n. 1612. Since there are no objections, let us proceed in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u9	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Rita Ghedini. I read the letter sent to the President of the Senate by Senator Ghedini: Dear President, By this I intend to confirm, as I have already informed you personally, my resignation from the position of Senator. My decision concerns personal reasons and is taken in full freedom and awareness, without any constraint or compulsion. I would like to thank you for the work you have done in recent months and to express the best wishes for a fruitful continuation of the work of the Legislature. I would like to thank you for your attention to the urgent timetable for the House to vote on this communication, in accordance with the working priorities of the Senate Assembly. Dear greetings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u12	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, it has already happened in this legislature that the Senate has had to express its opinion on the resignation of a senator. Today we must vote for the resignation of Senator Rita Ghedini, for the reasons that you, President, have now given reading. I don't think any more of the Senators of the Democratic Party can testify to the parliamentary value of Rita Ghedini. [[Extended applause]] Rita is a parliamentarians and a woman of strong and rooted ideas, of great beliefs. I mention only, as a quality that has always struck me and that I have always observed as a necessity for all of us who do this profession at this stage, its great sense of the State, its ability to always distinguish, in every circumstance - it has demonstrated in this legislature and in the previous one - its views from the general interest. I believe that this is a gift that we Members of Parliament should endeavour, if possible, to cultivate, develop and keep in mind in our work. She is also a woman - I say this because this has also reflected in our parliamentary activity - of extraordinary and very great humanity, a humanity that has made Rita at this time the constant reference point of all the senators of her Group, but, if you will allow me, of a very large part of the House and also of majority and opposition groups. When voting on resignations, Parliament does not always behave in the same way, deciding - of course, it is up to each of us to choose one way or another - to accept them or reject them with political or courtesy reasons. Each time, we have the power to choose and have exercised our discretion. Today Rita has made a professional choice, which we think does not cut back the relationship: I think we will all continue to wait every morning, at the beginning of our business, his text that tells us what we have to do during the day. I am convinced that it will do so for a long time and for the future. But you are asking us to accept your resignation. I believe that in this vote there is an obligation for all of us, not only moral and personal, but political, to respect the will of the Member who decides on his life. I want to wish Rita the warmest and most sincere wishes for her future and I would like to ask the House to take account of her will. Thank you very much, and especially thanks to Senator Ghedini. [[Live applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u16	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 17th legislature and I am at the first and probably last experience. I have no confidence and I have not carried out a back check on how many senators during a parliamentary term present their resignation, thus passing the witness. Surely this is the first time that the senators have voted for the reduction of their jobs, which may not be worrying because, while jobs are lost, on the other hand there is the complete certainty that flexibility in safety works at least for this category, as the subjects will be immediately re-entered into a work system, maintaining more or less the same framework and status, both economic and social. What worries me most in this reduction is the certainty of a conscious loss of pluralistic representation of thoughts: as has often been said, in two words, probably a less democracy. In order to make parliamentary work more efficient, there is no need to change the Constitution and the constitution of the State. I believe that the wrong source of legislation has been chosen, as it was sufficient to change the internal regulations governing the management of the Chambers. In these last days, dedicated to examining the delegation of work, and even earlier in the past summer of fire, which has probably become pyrotechnic for everything that has happened during the reform of the Constitution, these passages have clearly shown that the Regulations are inadequate: they are made to be ignored by Parliament and then upset by the Presidency, with the demonstration that it is impossible, on important and complex issues, in which we need the widest sharing, to be able to do a functional, constructive and effective job or - to use a translation that I like and that makes the idea good - ergonomic. The same applies to the relevant Commissions in the various fields, which already differ in number and nomenclature between the two Chambers, in addition to not following a preparatory and coordinated process in the discussion of the measures. Punctually, in the case of a draft law discussed in the Commission, which then goes to the Chamber and is voted on, before the competent Commission of the other branch of Parliament deals with it, and then enters the Chamber for the second reading and to be voted on, so much time passes that it often falls before the legislature, without so seeing the completion of the legislative process; and so the draft law gives peace. What is different - we know - is the decrees-laws, which have certain times, which often... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator Bencini, we're talking about Senator Ghedini's resignation. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). If I can move forward, then you will understand the meaning of the speech, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ah, that's a premise. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). What is different - we know - is the decrees-laws, which have certain times, which often, always due to bad organization, which all parliamentarians obviously see and objective, are not in depth in the Commissions of merit, because the time devoted to a real debate is minimal (we have sessions of 30-60 minutes). When we are also in the referent phase, when we vote, there is a race for the vote, without going deeply into the substance of the amendment. You always give a summary exhibition, we're always running. Then I turn around and wonder: I want to know who's chasing us. I always say: let us be quiet, we are not losing it, the amendment; indeed, if we talk about it and think about it, perhaps we can put that amendment in black and white. Then I say: why persevere in certain choices? We are or are you masochists, are we devils? In order to show that we want to streamline the parliamentary procedures, we therefore adapt the regulations. Those are obsolete and not - to return to the discussion of a week ago - the Workers' Statute and Article 18. Let's show that Italy adapts and modernizes, changes face to improve content, to be and not to appear. If you are the ones of doing, prove that you can do well, because in my opinion at the moment you have shown above all that you can do, but little. Well, that was the premise, it was the hat you interrupted, Mr President; it became a sombrero, but, in short, I see that you stayed awake. We are talking about the resignation of Senator Ghedini, Commissioner like me in the 11th Commission (work and social security), who will, I am not sure, be the President of the Coop Bologna League. A few months ago we discussed other resignations, those of two of our colleagues, who shared the same path with me. On that occasion the resignation was rejected and we know why: the House considered it necessary to defend a parliamentary prerogative: the MEP has the right to act freely, without a mandate; therefore it is not acceptable to resign that can be spoiled by external pressure. This is good and right; Senator Ghedini said that her choice is not spoiled. How, though, do we always tend to be very concerned about the rights and prerogatives of the Members of this House, and we are less concerned with discussions concerning the duties and burdens of those who, like us, hold such an important office? I do not dispute Mr Ghedini's right to resign to take on a different role; this is part of a practice to which even a newcomer like me has become accustomed. This was also true of the lightning resignation of Senator Marino and others, as in these days Senator Alberti Casellati or others who have left. Moreover, resigning is a personal choice and, if it is free, there are no reasons why another Member can stand up, except perhaps - I was thinking about this - if this practice of leaving a parliamentary post before the end of the term of office, not for serious health or family reasons, but basically to seize a different job opportunity, is not in fact detrimental to the image and goodness of this House and this institution. We cannot remember only when we have to justify our prerogatives that ours is not a job, but a service - I dare say a mission - on behalf of the people and the state. It would only be a privilege if we meant that of the Member of Parliament in the same way as any profession. The burdens and duties to which we submit define our goodness and it is on the lack of this that develops and increases the feeling of disaffection and anger of the citizens towards politics. We do not seek in the crisis or in the sensationalism of the media the reason for a feeling, the disaffection of the citizens, and I must say that this buzz increases the disaffection... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u17	Senator Bencini, now I invite you to speak about the merit and to keep to the House that is listening to you a more respectful attitude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u18	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). We do not seek in the crisis or in the sensationalism of the media the reason for a feeling that arises from the loss of awareness, on the part of the ruling class of this country, of the importance and sacredness of its role. It is not enough to be appointed and, to the limit, it is not enough even to be elected, to be elected. CARDINALI (PD). Bravo! Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). It is with our behavior, with the renunciations that we accept, be personal or professional, it is with the example that we give, with the conviction with which we carry out our task that we honor our person, the people who trust us and the role we play. This is done, therefore, by participating in parliamentary work and not being absent - it has been said several times - and by not transforming this House into a ring in the name of a obstruction that does not follow, with the same determination, an unwavering negotiation in order to achieve a shared result. We would no longer be in democracy, after all, if the launch of a book against someone really were to change the decision-making process that leads to a choice. Therefore, I ask myself and ask everyone the same question that does not want to be rhetorical: what is the thought that grows in people when they are informed that their representatives in Parliament are so honoured - I would say, to use a football term - to dress the blue shirt that they resign to the arrival of another commitment or another professional opportunity? At a time when Italy is experiencing a crisis similar to a war who abandons the ship or appears to be irresponsible or declares: "Tranquilli, either me or another is the same, for what a senator is worth." In my opinion, with abandonment, this is unfortunately the case: either me or another is the same thing. Then why wrong those who claim that we are too paid and have too many privileges, if the image we accept to give of our service is that of those in the Senate who earn well waiting to find another occupation? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'm going on, because if it upsets you...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u19	Senator Bencini, finish the surgery because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u20	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). However, I found it right to promote a reflection on behavior that politics gives for commonly accepted practices, but that in the country can have a different and legitimately less understanding interpretation. The representative of the Nation must be like Caesar's wife: above all suspicion and, in particular, suspicion of carrying out his function with his gaze on his professional future. And let me say these things precisely on today's occasion, because Senator Ghedini cannot feel part of this reflection. She's back in a field she came from, and she's probably gonna happen to me when I get back to being a nurse. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, you've finished your time. The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u23	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, let us return to Rita Ghedini because she deserves it. First of all, I have to say that the senators and senators of the New Right Centre will vote reluctantly in accordance with the request made by the President of the Democratic Party Group. We would have liked an attempt to reconcile with parliamentary activity before the divorce requested by Senator Ghedini herself [[Applause from the NCD Group]] , to which we all want, first of all, to give real honour for a parliamentary activity of which I have witnessed both in the role of President of the Commission and, in the past, in the role of Minister. And I have to say, I prefer the past experience to the past one. Speaking, in general, as an old Member of Parliament, as an old Member of Parliament, I can say that, after all, opponents are preferable when they are general-generic in their statements and when they may raise their voices. When, instead, as Rita Ghedini, they know calmly, but professionally, to propose different thesis from those you support, they put you in trouble. I was always afraid of the intervention of Senator Ghedini in my role as Minister, because, indeed, she was polite, but at the same time absolutely firm and motivated. We will miss you, but we will find you - I think - in the new function, which, as we understand, is the leader of a great cooperative movement. We will also miss you in that parliamentary whip of the largest party in the House, which has often been carried out by men who, even in their physicality, represented this role. I remember a guy named Pochetti, who, in a much more brutal way than you used to use, called all colleagues and colleagues back to their job. Therefore, we will really remember you as Parliament's nicest whip, because you have been able to unite firmness and courtesy and - why not - a great gift of humanity, which I have been able to appreciate on several occasions. I mean, like they say in Rome, when I go there. It does not happen to everyone to be greeted in this way and to receive a goodbye in these terms, not only for the part I represent, but I know that, in their underwear, so does most colleagues and colleagues. Rita, good work. The best is in front of you. [[Live applause from the NCD, PD, FI-PdL XVII, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u26	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to say a few words on behalf of the Forza Italia Group on this resignation. The work that Senator Ghedini has done in this House has been appreciated by everyone, partly because the nature of the delicate and difficult task she has (i.e. coordinating the work of her Group, which is the first in this House, and consequently a little of the majority) has linked her to many of us. We have thus been able to experiment in the work of the House (because sometimes the contrasts come right there) his personal qualities, as well as professional qualities (as this is not a profession), which - I believe - have made it appreciated by everyone in this House and in the Commission where he has worked. Senator Ghedini leaves - it is said - for other tasks, for which we also wish her a good job. Civil life is certainly not limited to this House: there are opportunities and circumstances where a very important contribution is made, to the point of thinking of leaving this post. I believe that the opportunity is good, beyond too broad reflections that would not be appropriate, also to remember the prestige of this commitment that we all through the serious work of every day - such as that which, for example, led Senator Ghedini - must enhance. In fact, our commitment is very high, of great responsibility and importance, which is the continuation of the civil commitment that there was, in any case, before and that, in many cases, there is also after. I therefore believe that this is an opportunity to give us a goodbye, a greeting to our colleague, trying to make him look as little as possible like a commemoration in order to avoid begging. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]] At the same time, it is an opportunity to express pride in the task we are carrying out and that the senator has carried out in the spirit of a parliamentary collaboration that does not mean not to have conflicts or conflicts, because of this is also made the parliamentary life, but it means having them in mutual respect and in the interest of the country we represent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u29	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, after almost seven years of hard work with Rita Ghedini, in this House and in the Commission, we are absolutely certain of two things: the first is that the choice of work and commitment that Rita makes with the act of resignation and with the assumption of the new office is a totally free choice, the second is that in this choice she does not play any personal interest. We know Rita enough to be able to say that it represents a policy made at the same time of total disinterest, firmness in principles, but continues to be open to dialogue. We regret that Parliament is losing this figure today, but in accepting its request, and therefore voting in favour of its resignation, we are sure that these gifts will be made available to the country again in another place and in another form. Happy birthday, Rita. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u32	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we in the Group of the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE have now become quite accustomed to the votes we have suffered and this is a very painful vote because we have had a great deal of appreciation for Mrs Ghedini, who will leave a vacuum that is difficult to fill. However, we also have great respect for your choice of different life and for this reason our Group, with great affection and regret will vote according to the indications given by our colleague. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u33	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot, by electronic procedure, on the resignation submitted by Senator Rita Ghedini. (Brusio). Colleagues, I remember that the secret vote is personal and the voting instructions are not valid. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL, PI, SCPI and Mixed Groups. Many colleagues approach Senator Ghedini Rita expressing feelings of emotion and closeness.]] Senator Ghedini is personally thanked by the Presidency. We enjoyed it for six and a half years, but we also collaborated very much. And I would like to point out to my colleagues who have spoken, reminding them that Senator Ghedini is not dead. It looked like a memorial. [[Applause]] I shall briefly suspend the sitting, which will resume at 10.20 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.10 a.m. and resumed at 10.20 a.m.) I authorize the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys to convene as of now in order to proceed to the determination of the candidate taking over the resigning senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1612. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain the contents of Decree-Law No 132 of 2014 and then discuss the changes that have been made following the work of the Commission on Justice. I would like to say immediately that, because of the extreme delicacy of the matter under consideration and the complexity underlying the amending proposals which have been accepted in the Commission, my illustration unfortunately cannot be brief. A methodical premise is that the Commission has examined the amendments after thorough investigation, which has been able to count on the contributions of many authoritative auditors. Personally, I believe that the whole of the measure has benefited from the quality of the amending measures. However, I am well aware that the text can be further amended and improved. As I said, I shall now proceed to a brief description of the content of the articles of the emergency measure. A brief examination of the article must be based on the observation that the text of the Decree-Law consists of seven Heads: Chapter I contains provisions for the elimination of the backlog and the transfer to arbitration of pending civil proceedings; Chapter II regulates the negotiation procedure assisted by lawyers; Chapter III provides for further provisions for the simplification of procedures for the separation of persons and for divorce; Chapter IV, on the other hand, is dedicated to the provisions aimed at ensuring the functionality of the civil process of cognition; Chapter V deals with the protection of claims and the acceleration and simplification of the enforcement procedure; Chapter VI is dedicated to the judicial organization; and Chapter VII concerns the final provisions with the rules on the financial coverage of the Decree-Law. Article 1, which supplements the whole of the Head of the urgency order, provides for the joint power of the parties to request an arbitration procedure. The object of this optional transfer to referees may be all civil cases pending before the court or capable of appeal with the exclusion of those relating to the rights not available and which are not included in particularly sensitive matters, such as employment, social security and social assistance. The procedural stage limit is that of taking a decision of the dispute which prevents the application of the rule. The second paragraph concerns the technique of appointing the arbitrator and the right to be a member of the arbitration panel. The third paragraph is to be emphasized because it is decisive, since it states that the award has the same force and effectiveness as the judgment and there is the safeguard of the substantive and procedural effects produced by the introduction of the judicial application. Of crucial importance is the fourth paragraph of the same article, which provides for a form of resumption of acts in the process. Therefore, if the arbitration procedure does not end with the ruling within 120 days of acceptance of the appointment of the arbitration panel, the trial shall be summarized within a period of 60 days. Once summarized, the praise can no longer be pronounced. In the case of non-resumption, instead, the extinction of the process is determined. It should be pointed out that these rules apply only in the case of arbitration to appealable referees. In addition to the rule on the consequences of the pronunciation of nullity of the ruling, the provision that closes the article, which allows a regulatory decree of the Minister of Justice to reduce the parameters related to the remuneration of the referees, and, above all, excludes the applicability of the first paragraph of Article 814, second period of the Code of Civil Procedure in the matter of joint payment of the referees, except for the retaliation between the parties. Article 2 defines the negotiation agreement assisted by lawyers (this is an extremely innovative institution). This is an agreement to settle the dispute amicably and has as its object any rejudicanda that does not concern unavailable rights and must provide for an agreed time limit for the completion of the entire procedure. It is provided for the written form under penalty of nullity and the necessary presence to provide assistance from a lawyer, who is also required to certify the autograph of the subscriptions under his professional responsibility. The obligation to provide information on the possibility of recourse to the Assisted Negotiating Convention shall be inserted as an ope ligis among the duties of ethics. Article 3 refers to matters in respect of which the exercise of legal proceedings must be anticipated by the invitation to conclude an assisted negotiation agreement. Among the subjects for which this form of procedural condition is imposed are: disputes concerning compensation for the damage caused by the movement of vehicles and vessels; any other dispute whose value of the payment application proposed in court does not exceed EUR 50,000. In this regard, the exclusion of the cases provided for by article 5, paragraph l -bis of the legislative decree of 4 March 2010, n. 28. Improcability for failure to propose an assisted negotiation agreement for disputes concerning contractual obligations arising from contracts concluded between traders and consumers is also excluded. Paragraph 3 of the same Article 3 provides for further exceptions concerning the application of the clause of due attempt to enter into an assisted negotiation agreement. I would also point out that paragraph 5 resolves the problem of the relationship between the procedures outlined so far and the other mandatory special procedures for conciliation and mediation. Finally, I note that the provisions of Article 3 are not immediately enforceable, but will determine the effect of 90 days after the entry into force of the conversion law. Article 4 regulates the non-acceptance and failure of the agreement, while Article 5 regulates the enforceability of the agreement reached following the convention and expressly introduces the possibility to transcribe when the convention has as its object one of the acts provided for in Article 2643 of the Civil Code. Article 6 regulates the same trading agreement as assisted in the particular matters of legal separation, termination of civil effects or dissolution of marriage, or modification of the conditions of separation or divorce. In this regard, it is clear that the text of the decree follows a different approach from that adopted by the Commission when examining the draft laws aimed at speeding up the conduct of procedures to bring about the cessation of the civil effects of marriage. Paragraph 2 of Article 6 excludes the agreement for assisted negotiation in the presence of minor children, adults who are unable or have a serious or economically non-self-sufficient handicap. Moreover, the agreement reached following the Convention has the same effects - and can therefore be fully replaced - of the judicial measures which define the aforementioned proceedings. The party's lawyer shall be required to transmit to the official of the civil status of the municipality in which the marriage was transcribed, certified copy of the agreement. The appropriate amendments to the decree of the President of the Republic No 396 of 3 November 2000 are therefore to be made. Article 7 deals with conciliation concerning the rights of the employer. Apart from some doubts about the section of the article of the decree-law, is added in article 2113, last paragraph, of the civil code, an ulterior case of exclusion of the invaliditys of the renewals and transactions that have as their object the rights of the provider of work. This standard must be read in a systematic logic with Article 2 (2) (b), already illustrated, and excludes the trading agreement in the matter of unavailable rights. Article 8 shall regulate the effects of the agreement in negotiations assisted on prescription and forfeiture. Finally, Articles 9, 10 and 11 concern respectively the obligations of the defenders, the protection of confidentiality, the anti-money laundering rules and those relating to data collection. Chapter III introduces further provisions for the simplification of legal separation and divorce proceedings which should have complementary effects compared to Article 6 above. The possibility of entering into an agreement before the civil status officer for the legal separation, dissolution, termination of the civil effects of marriage or modification of the conditions of separation and divorce is guaranteed. It should also be noted here that the provisions of Article 12 will apply from the 30th day following the entry into force of the law converting the decree. Chapter IV points out that the aim is to increase the functionality of the civil process of cognition. The first rule concerns the system of compensation for expenditure, which, if there is mutual failure, may be partially or in full between the parties. Similarly, it is possible to compensate in part or in full for the costs of the proceedings in the event of a change in the question concerned or of a change in the case-law. The standard is very innovative with respect to the current framework, which allows compensation even if there are serious and exceptional reasons explicitly stated in the statement of reasons. Article 14 regulates the institution of the transition from the ordinary rite to the summary of cognition. Again, this is an extremely innovative standard. However, this rule is based on the necessary conduct of the dispute between the parties on the decision to move from one rite to another. Article 15 introduces Article 257-b into the fabric of the Code of Civil Procedure. The institute tends to attach to the proceedings statements of third parties issued to the lawyer attesting its authenticity. The procedural consequences punctually enunciated by the norm are the usability in the trial and the consequent possibility for the judge to have the call as a witness to the author of the statements themselves. Article 16 of the decree-law, including on the media, has also been much discussed, as it refers to the reduction of the holidays of judges and lawyers and prosecutors of the State and the suspension of the working terms. Technically, the rule takes the form of an amendment to the period of judicial leave, which would now run from 6 to 31 August of each calendar year. The second paragraph, on the other hand, regulates the holidays of judges, lawyers and prosecutors of the State, thus intervening on one of the institutions that characterize the service relationship of the members of the judicial order. The annual holiday period is 30 days. This provision also extends to special magistrates, as well as to the emperor's defense. Chapter V of the Decree-Law introduces measures to ensure the protection of credit, as well as the simplification and acceleration of the enforcement process. Article 17 also introduces a significant change in Article 1284 of the Civil Code, which aims to establish that the interest rate since the beginning of a cognition process is equivalent to that relating to late payment in commercial transactions. Appropriately, the second paragraph of Article 17 causes effects on the amendment of the Civil Code from the 30th day following the entry into force of the Conversion Act. Article 18 contains detailed amendments to Book III of the Code of Civil Procedure concerning the registration of the executive process for expropriation. These are rules which amend Articles 518, 543 and 557 of the Code of Civil Procedure, all of which, as I have said, are based on the regulation of the enforcement procedure, in order to ensure its speedier development and, above all, the certainty of its effects. In fact, further rules concern the entry note and its essential minimum content. Finally, it is also established that the deposit of the registration note in the forced expropriation proceedings takes place exclusively by telematic means. This forecast also reveals a great deal about the proceedings. Further amendments are contained in Article 19. Moreover, the importance of Article 26-a establishing territorial jurisdiction for the forum relating to the forced expropriation of claims to public administrations referred to in Article 413, paragraph 5, of the Code of Civil Procedure, identifying it in the court of the place where the third debtor has his residence, domicile, residence or registered office. The search for goods to be foreclosed by electronic means is also introduced and the provisions on movable property outside the scope of execution are amended. Article 20 closes the rules laid down by Chapter V of the Decree-Law and concerns the monitoring of individual and competitive enforcement procedures. Chapter VI consists of a single article covering the provisions on the successive transformations of magistrates and introduces a rule setting a period of four months for the definition of the procedures for the subsequent transformation of magistrates which are normally carried out twice a year. It is also established that the Minister of Justice shall adopt a single decree for all the changed magistrates. The following rule, i.e. the third paragraph of Article 10-a in comment, states that if the transmutation involves or aggravates a cover of staff of the judicial office of origin which amounts to 35%, the effects of the procedure shall be suspended until the cover of the vacant post. The suspension of effectiveness shall, however, cease within six months of the decision and shall have no effect if the transformation concerns offices with the same cover of staff. Finally, Article 22 lays down the provisions for financial cover. I now outline, in summary, the amending proposals approved by the Commission. With regard to Article 1, a significant novelty is contained in the amendment establishing that, in cases where a public administration is a party to the judgment, its consent to the request to promote the arbitration procedure shall be deemed to have been given, unless the public entity expresses its disagreement within 30 days of the request. It should be pointed out that, in any case, these are disputes which must have matters well established in the amending proposal which have been accepted. Other innovations are the possibility of recourse to the new form of arbitration for cases relating to rights based solely on the collective agreement of employment, i.e. only if the arbitration clause is provided for in the collective agreement of employment can the arbitration in the course of the case be granted, otherwise arbitration in the field of employment is excluded. Further rules concerned the maximum value of the case for the use of the single referee, the criteria for the award of arbitration, the requirements for the choice of the referees themselves, the time limit for the filing of the award and the conditions for incompatibility. With the amendments to Article 2, we have made it clear that the assistance of one or more lawyers (if we are referring to negotiation), introducing the obligation for public administrations to entrust the negotiation agreement to their own internal lawyering (which is also a very innovative rule), and clarifying some doubts about the exclusion of the juslavoristic matter from the application latitude of the rules under consideration. As far as Article 3 is concerned, action has been taken to coordinate the progress of the time-limits for proceeding. No amendments have been made to Article 4, while the outcome of the examination of Article 5 has led to the adoption of two amendments which are essentially surgical and aimed at establishing the burden of transcription in the precept of the agreement which defined the assisted negotiation and further details on the transcription point. On Articles 6 and 12, I will go further because it was those who called for a wider debate in the Commission. By a large majority, the Commission then agreed on the deletion of Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which had been the subject of many criticisms and not a few interpretative doubts, as I explained at the outset. The effect of this deletion is therefore the systematic exclusion of labour matters from the institutions provided for in Articles 1 and 3. With regard to Article 9, the Commission has merely approved a provision specifying the consequences of the breach of the provisions on confidentiality and compliance with the obligations of loyalty which have specific disciplinary consequences for the lawyer. Article 11 has been supplemented by a single provision providing for a report by the Minister of Justice on the state of implementation of the provisions contained in Chapter II, i.e. on assisted negotiation. Article 13 on the compensation of costs between the parties has been amended in detail to Article 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, providing for a restriction of the conditions for compensation which could lead to positive results, in substantially destructive terms, on the propensity to dispute. The Commission then proposed and decided on the deletion of Article 15, which provided for the possibility for parties to a civil trial to produce statements of third parties on facts relevant to the judgment. Article 16, as is well known, concerned the sensitive issue of judicial leave and the quantity of days of leave payable to members of ordinary and special magistrates, as well as to the staff of the State lawyer. The Commission has merely approved, after a long and complex debate, a redefinition of the period of judicial leave which is now partially restored throughout August of each year. In addition to a limited amendment to Article 17 on measures to deal with late payments, the Commission has also approved two amending proposals for inclusion in the role of the executive process for expropriation. This is a modest redefinition of the terms for filing the registration note and copies of the act of foreclosure with third parties, as well as the inclusion of a certificate of conformity of the copies of those acts which is entrusted - again with an entirely innovative effect - to the lawyer of the creditor. With regard to Article 19, the Commission has approved substantial amendments to the procedure for the enforcement of motor vehicles, motor vehicles and trailers. Further amending proposals submitted by the Commission to the House concern the enchantment procedures, the telematic search for the goods to be foreclosed, as well as provisions on the credits of foreign diplomatic missions and consular posts. The amendment to Article 22 proposed by the Commission to the House stems from the opinion of the Budget Commission. I shall conclude my statement, for which I apologise to the House, highlighting the very technical content of this measure and pointing out that the amendments which the Commission has considered to make to Articles 6 and 2 of the Decree-Law are those which gave rise to the longest debate. With regard to Article 6, the arrangements for the agreement reached following an assisted negotiation agreement were redefined. The choice was to provide for a transmission to the prosecutor of the Republic to the court, which either authorizes it or transmits it to the president of the court that establishes within the next 30 days the appearance of the parties and provides without delay. I shall not dwell on the further details concerning the rules on the burden of contesting the attempt at conciliation and the redefinition of the conditions for proceeding with assisted negotiation in this sensitive matter. Finally, with regard to Article 12, the Commission considered that it had partially modified the possibility of proceeding before the civil status officer of consensual separation and the joint request for dissolution or termination of the civil effects of marriage. It was decided to refer to the mayor, as an officer of the civil status, pursuant to Article 1 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 396 of 2000 and to introduce the provision of optional assistance by a lawyer. The Commission has also approved a number of minimum proposals to better define cases of serious disability which do not allow us to proceed with the simplified path before the mayor and a final clarification on the optional assistance by at least one lawyer in the presentation of the declaration to attest the desire to separate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have resigned to you the entire number of amendments proposed by the Commission, of which I naturally recommend approval in this House too, and of course reserve the right to consider with the utmost care and attention the amending proposals which will emerge here. I am sure that the text can be further improved and, of course, these improvements will have to be the result of the debate in this House. However, I would like to stress, in conclusion, that this measure is certainly innovative, in a matter which, as I said, is certainly difficult to deal with, as a very technical one, but which certainly also imposes a new view on the part of those who approach it. In fact, it is necessary to address it by putting aside some corporate logics and trying to evaluate, precisely, the content of this norm exclusively from the point of view of the objective that the whole measure sets itself, that is, as I said, the simplification of the matter in the matter of civil proceedings. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u36	I also thank Senator Cucca for the completeness of his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u37	Mr President, a general and incisive reform of the civil process and more generally of the whole area of justice, given the complexity of the existing regulatory system and the multiplicity of the bodies involved, can only go through the rewriting of numerous provisions, as well as through the introduction of new institutions. The subject, therefore, undoubtedly needs a reform process properly weighted and widely shared, certainly not fragmented and completed through legislative actions informed to unite and systemic coherence. Given these premises, we believe that the requirements now mentioned are little reconciled with the aims that, according to the constitutional dictation (Article 77, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Constitution), connote the instrument of the so-called emerging decree, as well as with the timing that notoriously mark the adoption of measures adopted on conditions of necessity and urgency. We would like to avoid the risk - also very often present in the current legislature - that, in the aftermath of a reform that is not sufficiently considered, we should once again record those antinomies or those real gaps of protection, which have partly characterized the new remedies conceived in government, and which can then have effects different from those imagined, as they are not supported by more appropriate reflections, which would serve instead. Even if we want to admit that the government can, by decree-law, intervene in dealing with a problematicity that we know well to be old, especially in terms of costs and backwardness, and that for a long time afflicts our justice, it is undoubtedly, in our opinion, that precisely the persistence by now decades of these pathologies disavows at its root the existence of the presuppositions provided for by Article 77 of the Constitution: it is almost a logical contradiction, we would have to say. Yet the reform of the civil process, contained in Decree-Law No. 132 at our examination, claims to avail itself of the governmental instrument we are now talking about, even if, in fact, it is clearly lacking in the requirements of extraordinaryness and emergence. This is not the first time - I repeat - that this has happened during these months and weeks. From our point of view, the choice to intervene by decree-law therefore involves delicate constitutional compatibility profiles. One thing is, in fact, the possibility in abstract to regulate objects pertaining to the matter of justice and the judicial order by decreeing ex Article 77 of the Constitution, using its constitutional presuppositions; another thing is to intervene systematically with this instrument, reaching a result that constitutes procedural reform, but through an instrument that the Constituent has not prepared for such purposes, thus arriving, through an uncoordinated plurality of decrees, moreover staggered over time, to a result not different from that already censored by the Constitutional Court in the judgment n. 220 of 2013, with reference to an order reform realized precisely with a single decree-law. To this we would also like to add that the same Decree No 132 of September last contains in itself - as unfortunately often happens - provisions which are profoundly heterogeneous, in reference to which once again, if possible, the use of the emergency instrument is even less justified. In the premises of the measure, in fact, the premises of the extraordinary necessity and urgency in the matter of civil justice are invoked, but at the same time the reform not only involves the judicial judge civil, but also the criminal one. In spite of the declarations of principle aimed at reaffirming alleged European obligations, the measures introduced by the Decree-Law do not demonstrate, precisely because of the heterogeneity we are talking about, the need for speed which would justify its origin. It is not understood how an intervention aimed at reducing, for example, the period of the vacation of the magistrates can justify and support the decision to remove from Parliament such an important matter for public life. In our view, however, this consideration is supported by the differentiation of the entry into force of the measures provided for in the Decree-Law. Each of the changes proposed by the Government, in fact, has its own term, which is linked to the existence of the norm, but such deferment of the effectiveness contributes to frustrating, and therefore to making at least questionable, the choice of the decree of urgency. In any case, the fragmentation and segmentation of reformist interventions create uncertainty in the operators in relation precisely to the rules applicable to the individual pending disputes, thus decreeing a precariousness of the legislative apparatus and making it more clearly difficult to identify the model of civil process that was actually intended to put into practice. Therefore, with a real heterogeneous of the aims, the repeated novelations of the procedural law resulting from the decree of urgency cause, in our opinion, doubts of application and perplexity, which are also a source of litigation and delay in the definition of pending proceedings, ultimately exacerbating a situation that, as we know well, is already very heavy (that which is daily suffered by our civil justice). For these reasons, we have referred to the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u38	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u39	Mr President, we in the Lega Nord Group have also tabled a question of constitutionality, because we believe that, in this case too, the decree-law issued by the Government (on a subject of particular delicacy) does not meet the requirements for a decree-law to be issued. First of all, this decree should provide for measures aimed at the disposal of the civil setback, the introduction of out-of-court instruments for the resolution of disputes, simplification and acceleration of the forced execution process. We believe that, in any case, this measure contains provisions without the conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency. Let us bear in mind, in fact, that in this decree-law we talk about some instruments that already exist in our order (see, for example, arbitration). It seems a little strange that this is considered an exceptional instrument and measure of urgency, since arbitration already exists. Then there is the hypothesis of assisted negotiation, but we remember that in our system there is already medium-conciliation, an institution that has been introduced in recent years, with great doubts, in my personal opinion, about not only the results, but precisely how this type of procedure is put in place. However, nothing is added to an instrument which is already trying to reconcile and which already exists in the legal order. Let us also point out another thing: in this decree-law there are many norms for which deferred entry into force is expected; I think, for example, of the hypothesis of the cessation of the civil effects of marriage (separation) to be agreed before the civil state officer. We always talk about different times. But if there is indeed the need and urgency to adopt an emergency measure such as the decree-law, why is effectiveness delayed? It should come into force immediately. [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] At this point, therefore, the real emergency requirements are lacking. Then comes the suspicion - and I think it is now well founded - that in reality the Government has used this instrument, in some ways, also to unbalance powers. Perhaps the majority is not cohesive enough to be able to carry out a truly organic bill on the reform of justice or at least to touch difficult topics such as the cessation of the civil effects of marriage, separation and in general family law. Perhaps this is a way for the government to impose a regulatory power on Parliament and perhaps to avoid any length of time, the fault of which would be on us in this House and the Commissions in dealing with certain matters. With this, however, I do not want to anticipate a speech that we will then be discussing in general. When we talk about reform of justice, we should talk about a true reform of justice. The problems of arrears, the length of civil processes and the shortage of staff are not a recent situation and to be defined as an emergency, because it dates back to last month: in fact, we have been talking about it for years. It cannot be said that a decree-law is now necessary because there is urgency. There is, yes, absolute urgency, but the situation had to be addressed years ago, with a real reform of justice. We criticize this provision not for what is contained in it, which in any case is critical, but above all for what is not there. With regard to the question of a decree-law imposing time limits, I must say that last night we were in the Commission justice until late, at a fairly tight pace, in order to be able to discuss the measure in this House this morning. We didn't even have time to absorb, analyze and confront ourselves on such a difficult and delicate subject. The deadline for tabling amendments in this House was set before the debate in the Commission was over. Therefore, the amendments we have here in this House are not, in some respects, the result of a development through which someone might perhaps have thought of withdrawing some or even amending them in the light of the debate in the Commission. At this point what do we do? Do we skip the Commission or do we avoid the House? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Is this the slimming down we want? We therefore present this question to you, which we are submitting to your attention, and we call on the Government not to use the decree of urgency as an authoritarian procedure - let me also say so - towards Parliament. We do not try to delegitimize Parliament all the time. It is a serious job that we must do. We have been summoned a myriad of times in Parliament in common sitting to elect the members of the MSC and the Constitutional Court, and I have to say almost empty, basically without a line. These are ways to delegitimize and remove credibility from the work we are doing. On the contrary, our work is serious and only to objectives of seriousness we must imprint it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u42	AIROLA (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, but Mr Stefani's speech was very interesting. At the government counter, however, we chat and Senator Giuseppe Esposito gives the five-fold. This matter deserves the attention of the House. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. References by the President to Senator Esposito Giuseppe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u43	He asked to intervene Senator Caliendo to illustrate a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u44	Mr President, I take the floor very uncomfortable, because I had really hoped for this measure to address the problems of justice and civil justice in particular. It is, on the other hand, something that is beyond what we can imagine, an absurd thing that is worse than what has come out of the Commission. I take the floor, Mr President, because I would not like those who read these texts to say one day: But is it possible that in the Senate of the Republic there was no one who had gone to read a page of the treaties on family law on the principles of our legal system? In our system we have a fundamental rule: I refer to Article 29 of the Constitution, which refers to the family, establishing that the State recognises the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. It is because of what has developed the whole discourse of the legislation on separation, family and divorce. Just think that in our legal system there are general principles, the first of which is: state issues, such as divorce, must be decided by judgment. We are witnessing something crazy here: we are doing assisted negotiation, or we are going before the civil-state officer. Then we will see, during the general discussion, what the further problems are. First of all, there is a conflict with the general rule that gives the prosecutor the necessary participation in all processes (Article 70 of the Code of Civil Procedure). The press - rightly - has today given an image of what is the reality: easy divorce, Mr Undersecretary. Easy? No, it is not easy: it is restored to the free discretion of the spouses. There is no longer any need: it is harder to get married than to get divorced. Why? Because you have forgotten that in our system there is a joint divorce, on the joint request of the spouses: when the spouses reach an agreement, they go, in a single hearing, before the court and obtain, at the moment, the sentence. What does this discipline have to do with civil backwardness or the possibility of speeding up? You know better than me (not only because you are a magistrate, but because you are in the Ministry of Justice and you certainly have the opportunity to assess) that, in this country, divorces or consensual separations do not reach 0.5 percent of the civilian load, which means interfering and determining abnormal situations to achieve a zero result. What then is the conflict between the norm, as it is written, and the discipline of divorce, which is not touched? Undersecretary, I'd like you to listen to me. Do you know why? You and the rapporteur have made a habit of it: the rapporteur is good and I appreciate his report, but, during the debate in the Commission, he has not been able to give us a single reason for the technical and legal objections to the unconstitutionality of this rule. Why? Look out, the divorce law - the law on the dissolution of marriage and the cessation of civil effects - is still in force. That law assigns to the judge, as the first argument, the function of ascertaining the impossibility of reconstitution of marriage and marriage cohabitation. It's not separation. Some ignorant people sometimes say we wanted to get a short divorce. Yes, but the short divorce was compatible with the Constitution. Not this one! Because in this case there is no verification of the impossibility. Take care: the jurisprudence of the last forty years, in our country, has defined and recognized foreign judgments, because in all European and non-European states there was a judge. Only recently, Mr. Undersecretary, in France and in some other country are you thinking of excluding it; but in these countries there is no article 29 of the Constitution, there is no protection of children, nor the protection of the weakest spouse. What is the protection of the weakest mate? You even tell me that this assisted negotiation agreement can be made with only one lawyer, so who is stronger, who has the economic power within the couple will also have greater possibility to affect. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella]] Then, even, overwhelming the general principles, last night, after the majority groups had held fifty meetings in the House with the intervention of the Minister, you found something really obnoxious in relation to the fact that, it is said, today it will be possible to have divorce even in the presence of minor children, of children of age not economically self-sufficient, of children with disabilities. Question: Who decides that their children are self-sufficient or not? You know better than I that this is one of the strong remarks made to you by the Supreme Council of the judiciary that told you to exclude this part from your measure. But let's see what's more serious: you made a new change last night. We are discussing a text which has not yet been completely amended. It is not the text that has been printed because the rapporteur has already told us that a new proposal will be submitted in relation to Article 12. As far as Article 6 is concerned, let us see what happens: you said that you can go to lawyers and reach an agreement; but if there are children who are underage or who are not self-sufficient - and I did not understand who established it - or with serious disabilities, what happens? The agreement must be sent to the public prosecutor within ten days, and you teach me that Article 70 of the Code of Civil Procedure sees the public prosecutor as a necessary part. It has not been understood what we transform it into: a sort of controller, a judge, while control has always been the judge's? What's the public prosecutor gonna do? He's gonna check that the deal is in the best interests of the child. But in this regard, Mr Secretary, there is probably a fundamental ignorance because there are no tables for assessing what is the child's interest, there are no specific parameters, as if it were a cause for work or economic issues. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Pepe]] Here we are discussing the reality of our society. Other than recognizing the rights of the family as a natural society! So what will the prosecutor do if he wants to do his job? You'll have to ask the parties to produce tax returns and make that assessment that the court should have made. Beware: in this last case it was resolved with an audience while in the case of our examination, if the prosecutor really will do his job, we will take six months, other than twenty days. Yet we and Senator Filippin had proposed that the short divorce be introduced with an acceleration of the times of separation and judgments of presidential hearings because the most serious thing, which you did not worry about, is that when there are minor children and there is a conflict between spouses, an immediate intervention of the presidential hearing is necessary to have measures that avoid the involvement of minors in the conflict between parents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This you have not been able to do so and is contrary to the fundamental principles of our system and of the Constitution. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you not to proceed to the examination of this draft law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Buccarella and Pepe. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u45	This concludes the period of explanation of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u48	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many times measures are voted on without full awareness of the details, paragraphs and events we are discussing. This is one of the many criticisms that are being made to Parliament. It can happen because, moreover, the Commissions instruct the subjects and the parliamentary groups give an orientation. Therefore, as each of us is a member of a Commission, we generally trust the work that other colleagues have done or, if we have doubts, we go to the Commissions, where each of us can have access, and we deepen the issues. That is what I personally did in the area of short divorce and this provision on civil justice, by tabling amendments and, although I am not a part of it, by following some of the meetings of the Justice Commission. My speech in this debate will be very brief and I do so only because I want to keep track of the acts of my full adherence to the reasons that Senator Caliendo has just explained, with plenty of arguments and with the competence that he has, certainly far superior to mine (not only because he is a member of the Commission Justice, but because of his personal and professional experiences in the field of Italian justice). Members' attention is drawn to the fact that this decree intervenes on fundamental issues: what is a family, how do we protect minors, how do we manage separations. I would not want those who express an opinion against it to be catalogued between wands, reactionaries and obscurantists. The Justice Commission of this Senate has been discussing a measure on this matter for a long time. Let's talk about serious and sensitive issues. I am well aware that lawyers - I used to talk to some of my colleagues, particularly Senator Torrisi - believe that their greater appreciation in consensual separations can also satisfy a merit of the forensic profession, a profession that I protect, defend and promote in all areas. However, some judicial aspects of the protection of the weakest spouse, of the protection of minors, of the verification on cases even of different skills within the family must lead to a more careful reflection. With my speech, which I will shortly repeat in general debate, I want to express a concern about what model of society we are going to outline and on what procedures are. A person is not obliged to marry: everyone can do what he thinks, implementing every form of coexistence or life choices. Marriage, however, which is an institution that has ancient origins, involves a series of mutual obligations, and the birth of children determines a series of responsibilities that each of us exercises in the role of parent. All this involves a system of guarantees and rules, which must protect both the choice of separation and divorce and the resulting responsibilities. Senator Caliendo, I think he's made some unbelievable considerations before. I also want to say, in conclusion, that I cannot understand why a decree-law is made on such a complex matter. [[Senator Spousetti's comments.]] Here we are talking about the foundations of family law and therefore, in my opinion, there is a constitutional violation, Senator Sposetti. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The decrees-laws, in fact, must also have requirements of necessity and urgency, and if, on the one hand, the disposal of civil justice can be extremely urgent, but here civil justice is flooded. BEEPS (PD). Stop it! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Spousetti, tell me what the problem is. I accept interruptions. If you let me know what the meaning of your interruption is, I may learn something. BEEPS (PD). You just don't have to talk! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Don't I have to talk? Is that the concept? But you've made a partial evolution. Mine, perhaps, was better than yours, because I think you have the right to speak. You, in addition to the foundation... president. Senator Gasparri, I'm here. Talk to me. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. I speak to you. I shall conclude, but not because he was invited to do so but because the time is running out. If the need and urgency are on the backsliding of civil justice, on the question of how to manage separations and divorces, even more quickly and transparently, it is necessary to intervene, but it can also be done with greater weight. So much so that I had also tabled amendments to the deletion of Articles 6 and 12, considering, moreover, that the Senate of the Republic has advanced a measure. We, as is often the case, are going to the general debate without knowing what the rapporteur's final amendment will be. Last night, when I went to the Commission, I saw that the amendments were postponed until the next day. Some of my colleagues in the majority have been lucky enough to attend meetings where they have expressed disagreements or consensus which we have noted in the press, but I believe it is legitimate that on such a delicate issue, which is not a political part or a party reason but an idea of society, we have the cards on the table. We cannot have a debate with an urgent decree-law on matters that are not urgent but very important and that are discussed with amendments that we do not yet know, exposing weaker spouses, minors and people with disabilities to who knows what risks. It is an obnoxious legislative process. The preliminary ruling is therefore sacrosanct and I hope that the House will approve it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u49	Since there are no other requests for intervention, I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1), Senator Stefani (QP2) and Senator Caliendo. It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I say that the Presidency has authorised the presentation, outside the terms, of an amendment signed by Senator D'Alì with reference to a term, in the title of the decree-law, which is certainly a neologism but which the Presidency itself, perhaps because of its inability, has difficulty reading. Therefore, with a view to a grammatical simplification, if not legal, I think it is worth considering this amendment, which I also point out to the rapporteur. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u52	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must thank you for allowing this amendment to be tabled, which I would ask the rapporteurs to accept. The amendment concerns the title of the measure, where it appears to be the unpronounceable term of legalisation, so full of letters that it seems to be a tongue-spoken and in any case not adequate in relation to the content of the measure. In fact, Mr President, one may also be willing to share the intentions and objectives that have moved the Government to dictate urgent provisions in an attempt to speed up Italian justice, but precisely for this reason we cannot be indulgent in the aesthetic defects of the title, which are also substantial because they hardly allow us to imagine a regulatory dictation that contains effective remedies to malfunctions. You have to wonder where we found this title, and your noun mutation... president. Senator D'Alì, the part relating to the illustration will make it during the examination of the amendments. Keep to the order of business by submitting the amending proposal. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I therefore propose with my amendment to replace the word 'jurisdictionalisation' by the following:'reduction and simplification of the judicial burden'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u55	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, on the subject of amendments and deadlines for their submission, as you know, the Commission has only finished yesterday, after 10 p.m. - that is less than 12 hours after the opening of this sitting - the examination and vote on the amendments referred to Articles 6 and 12, the sensitive content of which has also been discussed today, when examining the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. I would therefore like to make a remark for the benefit of all the political groups: since the deadlines for tabling amendments to this House last Monday have already been set, I think it is appropriate for the Presidency to set a different time limit at least in relation to the amendments to Articles 6 and 12, the examination of which - I repeat - was concluded less than 12 hours ago, at night; this clearly makes it impossible for all the parliamentary groups to speak properly on the articles in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u56	I agree with what you have requested, Senator Buccarella, so if there are no objections, I would give until 5 p.m. today to be able to add to the amendments that were adopted this night. It seems to me to be a reasonable term, since today we are supposed to be running out of the general discussion stage. BUCCARELLA (M5S). All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u57	Mr President, the draft law we are debating is an important element, but it is still only an element and a stage towards achieving that fundamental objective which is one of the main commitments of this legislature. I am referring to the need for a renewal and relaunch of the country system to pass through a reform of the justice machine, which, by reducing its time, manages to make more democratic, but also more competitive - and therefore more dynamic - the Italy system. Today we are dealing only with one part - and this is the first part that this House is debating - of a more general project of reform of justice, which represents - with reference to the debate we have just held on the title - a simplification and a reduction of the procedures to be dealt with in court, in order to facilitate the conduct of the trials and the work of the judicial offices. There are many issues raised by this measure, but there is one aspect on which I would like to focus attention in these few minutes available for my speech. This is an issue which has just been touched upon, even when discussing the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on this measure, concerning the possibility of a dissolution of the marriage or through a negotiation procedure assisted by lawyers or even through a direct relationship with the mayor, as a civil status officer. We would have liked - and there were some amending proposals in this respect, which we considered not to accept - that this debate could be linked to the more general reasoning we had already initiated in the Commission on justice on the subject of short divorce. The subject had to be dealt with organically and once and for all, because it represents an element and an aspect of our regulatory system that directly concerns the lives of so many families and people and on which there is a strong social expectation, compared to a regulatory action that can reduce the flimsyness and the length of the times of dissolution of marriage. We would have liked to have dealt with the whole package here, but in the end the Commission has chosen a different way: it has preferred to distinguish the two with the commitment - which I want to remind you why it remains in our memory and in our agenda - to schedule the short divorce rule for this House soon. The measure is limited to addressing two aspects that concern not so much the institution of divorce itself but, precisely, the need for simplification of procedures in order to lighten the machinery of justice, therefore the possibility that separation and divorce can be carried out under certain conditions without going through the judicial phase. However, we have foreseen that this path has its own body, first of all from the point of view of the times; therefore, not the prediction of an immediate dissolution but still the definition of times that allow also the couple, who in a consensual way, without children and without patrimonial transfer, want to decide to dissolve the marriage, to have a moment of internal reflection before arriving at the final act. Moreover, in the possibility that we can proceed with the assisted negotiation, we have also provided for the possible use of family mediation. We only think of this as an informative element that lawyers who assist the couple in the assisted negotiation procedure must give to the same couple, but we insert the offer of this possibility for the couple, if they think so, to access also this institute, which has had an important social role in recent years also to help the family in difficulty to face in a more conscious way those relationships so difficult at a time of break up of the family unit, therefore of dissolution of the family. It is clear that, as I said before, the lightening of the machine of justice cannot only pass from the identification of different places; the law provides for a consolidation of institutions such as arbitration and assisted negotiation, beyond the case of dissolution of the marriage I was talking about before. It is also necessary for everyone to have the administration of justice, by the Ministry of Justice, but also by Parliament when we go and we are going to legislate a lot on this matter, an important reflection on the organisation of the machinery of justice. We will talk about this later at an amendment stage, but I would like to anticipate that I have tabled a number of amendments relating, for example, to the figure of the judicial officer, who could carry out additional tasks than he is doing today, thus providing his support for the performance of certain marginal tasks, but which could relieve the judicial offices: I am thinking, for example, of transcription and verbalisation. I would also like to remind you of the agenda we have presented on the subject of the precarious former training trainees of justice, which we shall discuss later. At a time when there is a need to support the judges and the new court office in carrying out their activities more quickly, they could continue to play that important role of supporting the machine of justice that they are already carrying out today. With this measure we are therefore opening an important phase of review of the procedures and timing of the operation of justice. We have and will have just as important challenges ahead of us in this area, and I hope that the debate these days and the amending phase that will open up will ensure that this first act that we are doing actually goes in the direction of fairer, more democratic, more efficient and faster justice. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u58	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u59	Mr President, justice is a service of the State and it is the service by which the ability of a system to define itself as the rule of law is measured. The effectiveness of justice is a guarantee of democracy, or equality of rights before the law, and its inefficiency, on the contrary, becomes a factor of disintegration for society, a cause of loss of confidence, a factor of weakness and loss of competitiveness of a country that, especially in a period of persistent economic crisis, discourages companies and investments of capital from abroad, limits competition in the productive sectors. The malfunction of justice, according to an estimate of the Bank of Italy, costs more than 1% of the gross domestic product. The more general reform of justice proposed by the Government, therefore, will give the measure of how much we are prepared as a country to go back on the scale of development to present us as a credible and modern state, also in a framework of European and international confrontation. A task that is indicated among the priorities in the country-by-country recommendations of the European Semester monitoring procedure and that is called for by the World Bank's "Doing Business" ranking, which places us in the 160th place among 185 countries. Within this framework, the Minister of Justice has proposed seven measures, including the decree-law that we are about to convert, an instrument that underlines the urgency of intervening without delay in order to restore those which are guarantees based on the maintenance of the citizen-state relationship, in front of the 5 million pending cases pending judgment or double times of trial compared to the European average and the principle of reasonable duration of the trials (on average 3 years for an appeal and 7 years in case of bankruptcy proceedings). A principle of reasonable duration and the right process recalled by our Constitution, as well as by international conventions including the Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of 1955. Of course, I, too, believe that the excessive demand for justice in Italy is not linked to a sort of quarrelsome character of our people, but rather to a regulation and a system that is much to simplify, still tidy and codify by subject. However, it is undeniable that a number of cases can be defined as pretentious and often serve to delay the time required to comply with obligations. And so, in the face of a number of cases that are twice as important as Germany (of those in Italy it should be pointed out that 30% of the public administration is against the public administration, cases that contribute to congested courts), in order to make civil justice work, it is necessary to strengthen the systems for resolving pending disputes with extrajudicial instruments, for legalisation and alternative dispute resolution, as required by the European directive. I am referring to instruments capable of enhancing the professionalism of lawyers, but with a necessary coordination between existing institutions, such as the institute of mediation, arbitration and assisted negotiation, with respect to the subject matter of the dispute (in particular the subject of work, which we have appropriately excluded) and to the condition of processability, with possible future, but perhaps necessary, economic and financial incentives for the parties and certain times, which urge the transfer of pending proceedings outside the judicial office for the rapid formation of a title that is executive. Simplify the procedure and the rites, even with the passage of office from the ordinary rite to the summary rite (as provided in the decree-law) for the less complex causes. The implementation of the use of ICT systems for the registration and management of cases, for electronic communication between courts and parties, for the recovery of claims, as indicated in the European Commission guidelines of June 2014 and in the Justice Scoreboard of the Member States of March 2014. Well the modification of the modalities of compensation of the expenses and the greater interest for those who do not pay their debts and resorts to the process as sort of instrument of deferment of the payments. Another key element remains the creation or implementation of specialised sections and judges for the family and businesses, as provided for in a specific bill contained in the overall reform of justice. And, however, the 2012 report of CEPEJ, European Commission for the efficiency of justice of the Council of Europe, certifies that the expenditure on civil justice in Italy is above the average of the other member countries, but with about 50% less of magistrates and administrative staff. There is therefore also a need for a review of expenditure in this area to ensure better organisation and management of resources as a result of the completion of the staff, including simplified compulsory mobility between staff belonging to the public administration and the reorganisation of the courts' offices in the managerial sense, including to free judges from administrative tasks that are not their own. In this direction, in Italy we have good examples, good practices: from those of Turin to those of central Italy. A judicial organization already contained in the laws of 2011 and 2012 that set the management of the office for the process in the managerial sense with reporting obligations and verification of results. Often, however, in Italy we have excellent laws, but we are lacking in the actual implementation phase, also due to the absence - it must be said - of subsequent responsibilities to be able to identify in the phase of the verification and evaluation of the results. But this is yet another page to write: that of transparency, organisational effectiveness and productivity in the field of justice too. There is no guarantee of impartiality, independence and non-discrimination, unless there is good performance and efficiency also in justice, which remains and must remain the service of the State to protect the weakest parties and to protect the equality of citizens before the law, with a view not far away (next December) to the end of the transitional period of the Stockholm European Programme for the creation of a single and strengthened European area of freedom, security and justice, without internal borders and without permanent national disparities with respect to equity and minimum guarantees for the protection of fundamental rights. We cannot be found unprepared at this time, to regain credibility in Europe but, above all, to regain the full confidence of citizens and businesses. This is just a first step. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u60	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u61	Mr President, the first consideration I would like to express is objectively, therefore beyond ideological oppositions and oppositions, of satisfaction with the Government for the fact that for the first time, after so many years, it has been understood that in order to make this country more modern we needed to reformulate and update our civil procedural and judicial system. It had become an unheard of media chant that foreign investors no longer came to Italy in order not to have to come across spider canvases of civil justice in this country that dies of infinite trials, lost in the meanders of the chancelleries of courts and snail magistrates. But no one ever put his hand on reforms, perhaps frightened by barricades that often the powerful categories and guilds of law (calling and judiciary) inexorably raised only to protect themselves and their positions of undisputed prominence in the folds of the civil process and never citizens and their rights denied and trampled. Therefore, objective satisfaction is manifested, because at last the problem has been raised of solving the long-standing issue of the disposal of the huge civil litigation, set aside, dusty and guiltyly unsolved by those who are paid, and also very well, in order to ensure and protect the rights of the people. We must tell us that in recent decades the Italian judicial authority has proved objectively lame and often unable to give concrete and time-acceptable answers to Italians at the fundamental level of individual and collective tout court rights, but all this I have expressed applies to a political assessment only beyond the merit of the norm. The measure, however, shows, as others have already pointed out, in all its evidence of the profound inadequacy and shortcomings. In essence, I have to say that the satisfaction with the choice of action on civil justice has been emptied of just how it was intended to be done. What was to represent an important hypothesis of reinvigoration in the forms of protection offered to the people before the law proved to be lacking and ambiguous. This rule, which should have had as a minimum common denominator the idea of putting everyone in agreement for the essential aims of the same, because of the necessity that the current situation imposes on us, has ended up displeased everyone: professionals, lawyers consulted, interested groups and citizens. I put to the attention of the Assembly a reflection and I also put it to the Undersecretary Ferri (who I no longer see in the Chamber but who was present before): the honorary justice in this country has achieved some commendable results in recent years. Many official statistics tell us that the same, in particular in the figure of the offices of the judge of peace, as far as he is competent, has produced very reduced pending litigation and acceptable time of judgment. Well, I wonder why this important way of resolving disputes, perhaps reworded and re-examined completely or in part, has been excluded from any reform hypothesis. But this is just one of the many unsolved questions. All this leads me to adversely assess this measure, which I consider not suitable to meet the urgent reform of the civil process that the Italian judicial system needs. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi, Romans Maurizio and Vattuone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear to you, Mr President, in particular. I was signed up to speak at the request of the Forza Italia Group, from which, yesterday, I self-absorbed. For this reason, if ever it was thought that I could not commit the time allocated to the political force of Forza Italia, anyone can interrupt me and not allow me to continue my speech. My speech, however, does not include my political affiliation to Forza Italia, because of the ties I have with President Berlusconi, because of the gratitude and esteem I have for him. These are two completely different issues. With the political group to which I belong, yesterday I had some moments of friction, dictated essentially by the lack of respect for rules. Soon, I will make my speech, which wants to be an exquisitely technical contribution to the conversion law that is being examined this morning. But now, on returning to the clutch and to the non-compliance with the rules, I have been sent a motion of censure, even if there is no proper and necessary investigation - provided for by a rule of our Rules of Procedure - that could have allowed me to give those explanations which a blameless conduct deserves to have. This rule is expressly provided for in the last paragraph of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the practice expressed in the incident that has occurred in recent days is extremely dangerous because it undermines the balance between the political forces in this House. At a time when the President-in-Office takes over the right and exercises a power which is not conferred on him by any rule...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u64	Excuse me, Senator Falanga, but we are talking about the decree-law; the Rules of Procedure are different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u65	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). So, Mr President, I say to you that the legal rule must be clear - I am referring to the decree-law and the law of conversion - to the extent that it can be properly interpreted by the operator, albeit with the limits that each of us has. It is evident that, if the rule is not clear, one can lend himself to becoming a sort of convenience store on the part of those who are required to interpret the law. It is also clear that the doctor does not have a precise knowledge of the legal norm; it is clear that those who, at the age of eighteen, after their maturity, abandon their studies in order to devote themselves totally to politics - and I am referring to Senator Gasparri - confuse the political interpretation of a legal norm with a scientific interpretation. I, as an operator of law, privilege legal interpretation. With regard to the law of conversion of the decree to our examination, I did not follow the debate on the preliminary constitutionality. However, let us assume that in recent days, before even waiting for the changes that have been made to the outcome of the work of the Commission and this House, two spouses had used the rule contained in Article 12 of the decree, which is already immediately enforceable: in fact, we know that a decree-law has immediate effect in the country and that the legal effects of the same still remain even if the same decree is not converted into law or possibly modified. I wonder - and I ask you senators, particularly the Senators of the Democratic Party and the rapporteur Cucca - what absurd situation would be determined in such a case and, more generally, by decree-laws an amendment of a procedural rule. There is no doubt that these unconstitutional profiles will certainly be at the attention of the Constitutional Court. That is what I have said on some other occasion in the past, for example during the 14th legislature, when alone - alone! - I grasped the unconstitutional profiles of a measure approved at that time. In this case I repeat and subscribe to my opinion, putting my face on it, the face of those who, however, for 35 years have been practicing the profession of lawyer: this decree-law will certainly be subject to constitutional control by the Supreme Court. The central point, however, is another, and from this point of view too, there is a problem of unconstitutionality. There is a dual profile, a technical and a political one. Perhaps it is not clear, colleagues, that this measure is privatising the marriage. I address more particularly to my colleagues in the New Right Centre, to Senator Giovanardi (who is on the phone and does not pay attention to my speech). Senator Giovanardi, this provision privatises marriage, in clear violation of Article 29 of our Constitution, which you know very well! [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] If you hadn't met him, I'd have to acknowledge good faith. But I don't recognize her good faith, because she knows article 29, which reads: The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. Marriage is ordained on moral equality................................................................................................. What does that mean? It means that the constitutional rule gives the institution of marriage a public value that cannot be entrusted to an assisted negotiation. Senator Giovanardi, let's talk about values! [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Gentlemen of the New Right Centro, values cannot be negotiated! We, political forces, can agree on various fields, in various respects and in different possibilities; but - attention! - values cannot be negotiated. Moreover, when the negotiation underlies the preservation of a miserable and temporary power, then it even becomes, in my opinion, displeasing, deplorable and unqualifiable in all respects. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] You, fellow Senators of the Democratic Party, are carrying out an operation which, from a certain point of view, I also consider to be intelligent. You are marking a first step towards marriage between people of the same sex, because of course, once marriage is given a nature that is no longer public, but is private, it is evident what the next step will be. Not that I - be it clear - do not agree; it is not a problem, my own, of sharing or not of the political line that traces this measure. Mine is the rebellion of a technician, an operator of the law, who categorically refuses that the norm is made a dealing of convenience. In this case, the New Right Center is making a deal of convenience of this rule; the Democratic Party is doing the same. We, from the opposition benches, operate in the free autonomy of our personal conviction in the matter of marriage between people of the same sex or the adoption of children by couples not linked by marriage, because President Berlusconi on these sensitive issues gives us all the autonomy of mandate, allowing us to make our choices on the basis of our sensibilities. This, moreover, is one of the reasons that prevent me to distance myself from Forza Italia, which from the cultural point of view, is the political force whose priority lines of political action are shared by me, being drawn by the enlightened Silvio Berlusconi. But you don't. Yours is not an autonomous judgment in the exercise of your mandate. You of the New Right Center fear that the break-up on this subject with the Democratic Party will create friction within the majority and barefoot you out of your armchairs. Then you negotiated your consent to remain attached to the seats you occupy today. The Democratic Party does an operation that goes in the direction Renzi wanted: we have to do everything, immediately and soon, and we have to do it immediately; it doesn't matter if we do it badly; it doesn't matter if the measure is unconstitutional; it doesn't matter if it's technically wrong. In the Committee on Justice, with the excellent rapporteur Mr Cucca (who deserves my thanks for the attention he has paid to the arguments put forward by those who opposed this measure), we have tried in every way to correct it. The authoritative President of the Justice Commission, Senator Palma, has once again shown himself to be worthy of the delicate task of making corrections, at least from a scientific point of view, in order to avoid a disruption of the law and a clear violation of the constitutional principles. Then why all this? Because we have to do it quickly, because Renzi, as he has to say in Europe, has done the job reform (and it doesn't matter, if it doesn't have any effect), must say that we have done this to clear the legal burden, the arrears. But it won't clear a pipe! I'm telling you, and in a year, you're gonna tell me if I was wrong or right. Assisted negotiation goes hand-in-hand, overlaps with mediation. We have the precedent of mediation that has not had any effect. So, today, how can we hope that this provision of assisted negotiation will arise, even for reasons other than those of marriage? We have expelled - thank God - the process of work, because we have managed to make it clear that the rights of workers, or some of them, are indispensable! We couldn't even understand that! Nor can the fact that in a private activity there can be a waiver of an indispensable and indispensable right. In that case, we succeeded. With the marriage there was the papocchio between New Right and Democratic Party and it came out abortion, which will prove to be so in some time, when the judicial burden will certainly not be cancelled. We'll have the same judicial load from here to a year. As I said to Mr Orlando, the excessive burden of arrears can only be reduced by a reform of the law, but not by a reform of legislation, such as the one under consideration. You have to excuse me, but let me say something that I always tell in the living rooms and in my private life. Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that the decrees-laws, the measures of the Government come out of the supervision of a person who is at the legislative office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers who, brilliantly and in an extraordinarily effective way, has directed the traffic of the city of Florence? Today she passes from the direction of the Florentine traffic to the examination of the measures of the government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Cappelletti and Council senators]] I don't know if that's known to you. Apart from professional activities, regardless of all this, I personally believe that this is the scientifically wrong result, and it is understandable because there is no adequate scientific means to change the procedural rules of our civil process. It will therefore be a failure to negotiate assisted, it will be a chaos in the family, and from here at some time we will have to discuss other measures that will necessarily be linked and consequent to the one under consideration. In that case I would like to see to what extent it will still be possible to negotiate values by political forces that descend into the squares and declare publicly that they are the guardians of the family, of the rights of the family and of the unions. I do not know with what shamelessness tomorrow, after having approved this measure, they will still be able to persevere on this political line. But Italians today are more attentive, perhaps also thanks to the contribution that was given by the 5 Star Movement. Perhaps thanks to their contribution, today the Italians are more attentive, dear friends of the New Right Center, and I am convinced that they will not allow you to culturally affirm your political position and then join, that is to say converge on legal provisions that that political line disavow in a striking way. I too have tabled amendments which, Senator Cucca, aim to improve, but not politically. I'm only doing this from an exquisitely scientific point of view. There are amendments that can be improved. Take the opportunity of some contribution that is offered to you by those who interpret the legal norm for 35 years and not by those of it, as did Senator Gasparri and the doctor, Dr Barani (repeat: Dr. Barani), Senator Barani, made an authentic one, also in this case, dealing. Why? Because the legal rule must be interpreted and applied. When President Grasso violates the Rules of Procedure he is violating the law and if the 5 Star Movement and myself, down in the Chamber, express their disappointment, this is legitimate: it is called a foul of reaction on the football fields. All this must be considered. [[Call the president back.]] We need to offer the Italians rules that are clear-read and respectful of our Constitutional Charter, at least until it is changed. Do it, friends of the New Right Center. We are examining the reform of the Constitution, which changes the Senate: we also intervene on the founding values of our Republic and repeal Article 29 of the Constitution. Let's do it. Have the courage to do so, thus repealing Article 29 of the Constitution and stripping the institution of marriage of that public profile, then probably this rule will be... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u66	Conclude, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u67	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I will conclude, Mr President, with one final remark, by addressing you in the Democratic Party. In our order the prosecutor has never had, has not and will never have the function of judge. With this measure, by reversing roles (i.e. passing the minutes to the prosecutor to decide whether this can be deliberated or must be respected by the court), you are carrying out, also for this verse, an extraordinary operation that also disrupts our criminal law. You are giving the prosecutor the role of judge, which is and must remain the judge. It is in this direction that the amendments I have tabled want to intervene, improving the measure. Senator Cucca, however, had his directives from the government and cannot pay attention to those who speak to him because he speaks to Lumia. From the two, from the conversations of the two geniuses of law - Lumia and Cucca - a measure will come out that the whole of Europe, as Lumia says, will envy us: the world, Europe, culture and associations, as my esteemed colleague Lumia usually says. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u68	Senator Falanga, you've taken it out on everyone today: the doctors, the vice presidents... we're talking about the decree-law! [[Laughter]] Colleagues, with regard to the programme of our work in relation to the follow-up to the debate, it being understood that the closing time of the sitting is scheduled for 14:00, as set out in the timetable, if we were to conclude the general discussion first, the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government will take place at another session next week. As there are no comments, so it remains established. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and above all citizens, we are talking about a measure that, beyond the title that is difficult to understand, is a subject that is considered as the reform of justice, the long-awaited reform of justice. After so many years of discussing the problems of justice, the reform of justice has finally arrived. Let us all be careful, however, because this is not the reform of justice. In this decree-law there are some rules that concern some individual issues, one on civil enforcement and there are institutions that would like to be valued, such as arbitration, as well as summary proceedings. (at 12.05 a.m.) (Follows STEFANI). We are talking about institutions that already exist in our system. This measure, therefore, does not affect the procedure, it does not affect certain issues that would be absolutely indispensable. When it comes to the reform of justice, it is a very serious and very serious problem in the Italian legal system. The main problem concerns a civil backwardness that is at disastrous levels; levels that place Italy at one of the most dequalifying places, also considered our legal culture (we remember the Giustinian Digest and all Roman law). In Italy, which should be the cradle of doctors, the cradle of the deepening of legal legislation, we find ourselves with an absolutely scandalous civil retreat. The management of processes has times that are absolutely irreconcilable not only with the human need to have justice but also with economic interests. I had an example in the province from which I come, Vicenza, where there were companies that did not consider to open offices precisely because of the fact that the recovery of the credit turns out to be so laborious, long and often fruitless (because the procedure is done in this way) that also frustrate the possibility of recovering the credits. This discourages companies from setting up in Italy. These are the fundamental and difficult issues of justice, and we cannot resolve them with a measure such as that at our examination, among other things as a decree-law which, remember, must be issued in case of urgency and has immediate applicability. Let us go back to what the procedure should be, which is not addressed as the major problem of the burdens on the individual magistrates and the problem of the number of magistrates is not dealt with. This speech is not addressed here, but when it comes to reform of justice, we should necessarily Take care of it. Among other things, we have put forward a number of amending proposals on this measure, which are of course limited to the subject in question. I still remember, however, that there is no point in saying that the reform of justice has been carried out and that exceptional remedies have been found when it comes to arbitration. Arbitration already exists; the summary process already exists and is practically unused. However, we are talking, for example, about assisted negotiation. Well, it's a North League initiative. We filed a bill, at the first signature of Senator Divine, which speaks precisely of assisted negotiation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That bill, however, was not incardinated. Yet this issue is now being reproduced and brought to this House. Let us remember, however, that if you want to use arbitration, assisted negotiation, to take away the burden of the magistrates and the procedure you have to find incentives, because either you make them mandatory, and you have not done so, or you give incentives. We, as the North League, have tabled a whole series of amendments in order to include at least fiscal incentives, because, otherwise, we do not understand why a client should ask his lawyer to proceed with the assisted negotiation or choose arbitration when there is no advantage. The culture of conciliation and the culture of mediation do not take place immediately. Also because, as you know who is born in the sector and knows it, when there is a dispute there is a quarrel, and when there are questions of principle there are questions of principle. The questions of principle are those which, at times, make endless disputes go on for a long time. We need the culture of mediation. And the average conciliation, which already exists in our order and is a system already used, has not produced those hoped-for effects. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here talking about an emergency decree-law and dealing with the backhand of justice. That average conciliation did not produce any results, on the contrary, it created further difficulties. This provision also talks about the great problem of family law. Family law has inspired very great treaties. Family law is not a simple matter and it is certainly not a matter to be dealt with by a decree-law and by the time imposed by a decree-law. It is not possible, discussing family law, to envisage the possibility of a separation and divorce with assisted negotiation or, indeed, (which is absolutely incomprehensible and unacceptable for us), that we can arrive at separation and divorce before the civil state officer and before the mayor, and that this happens with amendments voted yesterday evening to the Commission to arrive in the Chamber today, with the timing imposed by a decree-law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This does not allow us to analyse the matter as it really should. On the problem of separations and divorces, we want to invite colleagues to consider the problem of marriages of convenience. As a result of certain situations, weddings have often been tried to try to settle issues relating to citizenship. If we slim down and make separation and divorce a strictly bureaucratic passage, which does not even pass through that scrutiny, which was mandatory, of the court and of the judge, we come to fear that this remedy can be exploited in order to make the dissolution of the marriage more immediate and faster. But we do not exhaust the argument of these issues here. In the Justice Commission, where we are also talking about the problem of short divorce, we will continue further our demands in order to reduce and not suggest that these quick remedies can be used for the dissolution of marriage for convenience. In conclusion, we want to say to our dear President-in-Office, Mr Renzi, that it is pointless to continue to think that making legislation, doing the work of this Parliament is just a matter of living room, television and stage. We're dealing with serious issues. We are talking about reform of justice and we really want to deal with it as a reform of justice. We are available, in time and with our availability and skills. But the reform of justice does not go through some articles that do nothing and are just an external propaganda to name. That is what is happening on justice and that is what has happened in the field of work, and I imagine we will see more. We'll keep going. This is a technical theme and, you understand, it may seem boring. But in the end it is always a government provision, a decree-law, with the times imposed by a decree-law, propaganda as a measure of phenomenal, when phenomenal is not. And then we find ourselves with the continuous problems that we have in Italy. And these problems will also continue in justice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u70	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, there is no doubt that the civil process in Italy does not work because it is too long. But why are civil trials too long in our country? First of all, because the code of civil procedure is wrong and then because immemorial people and resources have been lacking for some time, not for other reasons. I would therefore have expected that there would be a very strong simplification of procedures in this decree. And above all I would have expected new resources to compensate for the many shortcomings in the staff (we speak of 8,000 between chancellors and missing officials) and perhaps an extraordinary intervention to temporarily recall retired magistrates, like what happened in Canada. This decree, on the other hand, complicates and slows down procedures further; it introduces new burdens, which weigh on those already existing in the case of the parties to the case; it actually introduces one more degree into the judgment; it does not hire the staff that is absolutely necessary. In this regard, I would like to give the Minister of Justice, who is not present except through his representative, a suggestion: why not use the staff employed in the Provinces repealed by Renzi? Seen and considered that the Italians are convinced that Renzi has repealed the Provinces in our country. This measure also intervenes demagogically not on the holidays of the magistrates but of the lawyers. In short, to say it with an expression is a great missed opportunity. Of course, there are also signs of hope. For example, the government has accepted an agenda presented by the 5 Star Movement, which I consider particularly important. I would like to read a brief excerpt. The agenda commits the Government to consider taking appropriate steps to introduce measures to promote the adoption of models similar to those of the rite of work for civil cases, both at first instance and on appeal, with the aim of enhancing the concentration of procedural activities, with particular reference to the investigative activity and to the introductory acts of the judgment...................................................................................................................................................... I personally believe that the added value of this agenda is greater than that of the whole measure, and I therefore welcome the Government's appreciation of this agenda, but we do not make excessive illusions. We know, in fact, that an agenda is only an agenda and therefore has no binding scope. On the other hand, there remains the establishment of the norm, which goes towards a creeping privatisation of justice in our country. To understand what this provision entails, we can reason by analogy and see what would happen to other essential services provided by the State, such as health care and school, if a reform measure similar to this took place. Well, the measure in question stems from the fact that the courts are open to proceedings and so it is necessary to have recourse to so-called private justice. Well, if it were said tomorrow morning - and we are already saying so - that access to public hospitals should be closed because there are too many demands, as we close access to justice by way of excess demand, it would mean that citizens should rely on private health, as we are doing with regard to private justice. But who's paying for it? In the school, the same speculative example could be made: there are too many students who ask to join school, therefore, because we are not able to give an answer as an organization of the State to all those who require this essential and fundamental service - because school, like justice, is an essential and fundamental service of the State - arrange for yourselves. We expect legislation that establishes the obligation, to enroll in school, to go to a private school. Here too, who's paying you? This question was addressed in a very dry manner by the President of the Palma Justice Commission to the representatives of the ANM in the Commission. The dry question was this: "Without changes, is this reform, in your opinion, effective"? The answer was as dry as that: "No, no, no." If there are no incentives for me to prefer an alternative route to the one envisaged, why should I add charges to the charges, in order to go and manage in a private way what should instead be a fundamental service provided by the State? How can a reform that provides for the use of an alternative rite after having already paid the unified contribution without any incentive? We have certainly realised this not only by us in the 5 Star Movement: virtually all the Groups have tabled amendments which went in the direction of introducing incentives to give effect to this measure, but have all been rejected for lack of coverage. Sure, in Italy the covers are found only for measures such as the 2 billion euro tomb condon that you have granted to the operators of the slot machines [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to buy the F35 (and we talk about 50 billion from here to 2027) or to distribute 7.5 billion to the private banks of our country or 4 billion to the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. There are always covers there, but for justice in our country the DEF does not provide an extra euro. I therefore wonder whether the aim of the Minister of Justice and this Government is really to make the machinery of justice work, because the impression, Mr Ferri, is that we continue to move - with this, as with the previous measures - in a stubborn and contrary way. We had the opportunity, at least within this measure, to introduce into our country the draft law on short divorce, which has been lying in the drawers of the Justice Commission for months. Apparently, this too has been sacrificed on the altar of unconfessible or at least unknown agreements with Senator Giovanardi. We have created a great deal of expectation about the short divorce in our country, because it has been voted by a very large majority by the House of Deputies, but above all because in the Commission there has been a basically favourable opinion from all the Groups, as well as the public position in favour of the introduction of this important reform by all the Groups. But last night, in the Commission, a resounding, hypocritical and unjustified turning back was made. I wonder why. I read you a statement not issued by the 5 Star Movement, but by the representatives of the Democratic Party, about the short divorce. That's two lines: We are at a turning point, with regard to short divorce: a number of amendments to Decree-Law No 132 are ready, which also include short divorce. These are the words of a major exponent. If they are voted and incorporated into the body of the law of conversion, the path of the short divorce will then close by November 12, the date on which Decree-Law No 132 is to be converted. On this amendment - in fact, there was more than one which introduced this case into the decree-law - the rapporteur returned to the Commission. We in the 5 Star Movement had signed these amendments and also voted in favour of a further amendment to Senator Caliendo's first signature, which, however, was clearly rejected by the majority in the Commission. We are on the same page: one thing is stated in the Commission and in the newspapers, but at the time of the vote another is always done. All right, you're gonna go explain it to the citizens. In conclusion, we are faced with the classic mountain that gives birth to a mouse; no valuable contributions were collected during the hearing. On the contrary, dangerous cases are introduced with this measure, such as divorce before the civil state officer, potentially capable of involving abuse and abuse of the strongest party on the other. You will therefore take full responsibility for it. We have missed yet another opportunity to solve the problems of civil justice in our country and betrayed the expectations of hundreds of thousands of Italians who have long forgotten the introduction also in our country of the short divorce. I therefore conclude with a request: let us return this decree to the Commission in the interests of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u72	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u73	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my total opposition to the management of this matter, and that is a consideration I want to make in political terms. Some people in this House are surprised that political considerations are being made, and not just by law, but I believe that those who make such considerations live outside the reality: here we are not in a court of law or even in the CSM, to which some may have sought (not me who do not have the titles); we are in a Parliamentary Assembly which also makes political and legal assessments, but also those of a political order, which I have done and which I repeat, are very well founded, with good peace of those who, for personal reasons, confuse personal arguments with legislative, legal and political arguments. I context the fact that there is a reform concerning divorce and separations through a decree-law. The decrees-laws are instruments to be adopted in cases of necessity and urgency, and if it is certainly urgent and necessary to disgorge civil justice, slow, clogged, difficult despite the numerous interventions that in the course of history, even recent, have been produced, I do not think that intervention in fact on a fundamental part of the family law with a decree is plausible. I find it wrong to have done so; I find that in violation of the Constitution. I am surprised that the highest demands of the Republic, to which the decrees are submitted for their enactment, have not, in a preventive way, found anything to complain to. I find the way forward scandalous. We are having a virtual debate because the rapporteur will certainly present an amendment at the next stage of the debate on a non-secondary issue: to those who touch the decisions, if only the lawyers, what should be the intervention of the judiciary. It has been discussed in the Commission; it has been discussed by the majority, as is normal for this to be the case, because, having said the political cut of my remarks, I am not shocked that the majority is making a comparison and is meeting, but in the end the measures and measures must come to the House with a debate open to all. Today we do not yet officially have a text that can give a definite answer. I am talking about a text which has been tabled and which can then give rise to sub-amendments. This is a very delicate issue: how we manage a separation, a divorce, what are the safeguards, such as the places of guarantee, such as the roles of the judiciary, how to protect minors where they are present (this morning we have already spoken in the context of prejudices; Senator Caliendo did so in particular talking about minors who are in a condition of diversity); in short, we are talking about fundamental issues in the organization of a society and we are discussing them with amendments to a decree, whose definitive content we do not know what it will be; it could still be further modified on the basis of pressures and assessments of various kinds. I believe that the Government, which is present authoritatively, should really be called upon to reflect on the way in which we are going to legislate and decide on absolutely important issues. I am not offended by the absence of the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u74	The rapporteur asked for three minutes' permission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u75	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, I am not offended, but I want you to remain to the record that the rapporteur (I think his name is Cucca) has been absent during the speech. I could stop here and ask to speak at another time, but since he wouldn't have understood what I'm saying, it would have been useless if he had stayed. I note that even out of misunderstanding of the fact he has gone away. My assessment remains in the minutes, so he can read it: I find it rude that he has gone away and I would like to remind the Presidency that he is calling the rapporteur. It was wrong, Mr. President, to allow him to leave. [[Applause from Senators Santangelo and Mangili.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). He went to vote in Junta. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I don't care if she had to vote in Junta, Senator Caliendo! It was wrong for the Presidency to authorize it, and I regret, Mr Fedeli, with you, that you said so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I believe that in the face of your statement I must suspend the sitting while waiting for the rapporteur to return. (The rapporteur, Mr Cucca, entered the Chamber). Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The rapporteur is back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucca, please sit in your seat. I ask Senator Gasparri to resume his speech. Please, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President Fedeli. I was also saying that with a mocking tone rather than an insult, because frankly I think that the rapporteur should make an effort to understand what is happening. We are legalizing with a decree-law on matter that is not by decree, with final texts that are still unknown to the Assembly and that we will probably vote on Tuesday or when it will be, with a more choral participation of the Assembly as it is normal to take place when we vote, and we are legalizing on issues that deserve more detailed consideration, which the Senate is doing with the examination of a draft law that is at the advanced stage of discussion. In this way, we go to trivialize legal institutions that are the basis of social life, such as marriage, which has ancient origins. I do not raise an objection of a moralistic order - I do not say moral, which would be a slightly more noble term - nor of a religious nature, but I believe that the organization of a society must be considered fundamental both by those who are believers and by those who carry out, as we must, an absolutely secular assessment in relation to the laws of the State and the legal systems. The separations and divorces always lead to disputes, of an economic nature and difficulties in the management of children, and therefore to regulate in a precise, cautious and responsible manner these events are the maximum duty of Parliament. On a fiscal or other matter we could give rise to an imprecise rule, to be able to change over time, but here we go to make choices that affect social custom, behavior and the way in which future generations will face marriage, whose trivialization is a mistake. In fact, I believe that it would be better to discourage the marriage bond by allowing people to live together and make all the choices they think, that are absolutely not forbidden, approaching marriage as a civil institution when they have greater awareness. The trivialization of this bond is a mistake, and I believe that, in the end, with the procedures that we will go to realize it will become easier to give rise to a separation than to disengage or scrap a used car or rent a property. The anti-terrorism rules, born at the time of the terrorist's dens, oblige the owner to report to the local police station the sale of the building, in case of rent; as well as releasing or breaking up a used car is a very complicated procedure. It will be easier to make a quick separation: as the multiple-cited Senator Caliendo said in the Commission, Italy will be like Nevada and people, instead of going to get married and separate in various countries of the world, will come to Italy. Perhaps we will have a tourist flow, and that may be the mysterious reason for this legislation, which I shall be voting against on. The other aspects will be addressed by other colleagues because, as with all measures, there will also be good parts on other subjects. I would like to thank the President and also the rapporteur for being here in good time. Thanks for listening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a measure motivated by a problem that has been discussed for a long time, in this and in the last parliamentary term: the backward court, with its 5 million trials at first instance and 400,000 on appeal. A striking fact that deserved an urgent and unavoidable response and attempted to give it through the extrajudicial instruments of arbitration and assisted negotiation. But there are some aspects on which I would like to point out that perhaps we have gone too far by including extremely sensitive subjects which deserved further study and consideration. I refer to the provisions of Article 6 and Article 12 relating to separation and divorce proceedings, which have a strong influence on family law, by amending the safeguards which our legal system rightly provided for in that extremely delicate situation which is the breaking of the family bond, especially in the presence of minor children. Frankly, I would have preferred a greater consideration of the social repercussions that this act and its possible dissolution have for the individuals involved and society, because the family deserves broader and more thoughtful reflections. It would also have been necessary to reflect on the need and opportunity to offer families in crisis a support, a mediation made by experts who try in every way to recomposition the fractures considering separation and divorce an extreme ratio that nevertheless determines a wound for the spouses, for the children and for the society itself. One cannot help but point out, then, that in the original wording it was foreseen that the speedy divorce procedure could only be used for consensual situations, in the absence of children or disabled persons, recognizing, therefore, the need to offer a different and greater protection in the presence of children. Later, however, amendment 6.80 tabled by the rapporteur introduced access to assisted negotiation even in the presence of minor children. We considered it important to intervene in the Commission together with other colleagues to find a solution that would take due account of the impact of separation and divorce on children and, in general, on the weakest. However, I must point out my unchanged esteem for the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, with whom we were able to carry out merit assessments at yesterday's sitting in the Commission, which in any case allowed improvements to be made through the approval by the Government of the amendment at the first signature of Mr Giovanardi, and by myself, through which the proper relevance to the needs of children has been given. However, I repeat (without any moralistic and religious conditioning) that such a delicate subject, on which I do not feel certain, should have been the subject of extensive and in-depth parliamentary discussion and should not be dealt with by a decree-law that in fact drastically limits any deepening. My doubts are therefore doubtful about the method used. I would remind you, however, that in the Commission justice is incardinated a measure on the so-called short divorce in relation to which a debate is taking place in the course of which favourable and contrary opinions have been expressed, as it is right that it should happen in democracy. I do not go into the substance of the decision of the parties, a decision which certainly matures in a delicate climate and of extreme difficulty. But I want to enter into the merit of the tools that our country decides to offer to couples in crisis and the consideration it wants to have of marriage and family, a family that unfortunately for years now has not seen policies aimed at promoting it. Our Constitution recognizes the family as first, natural, society, as the basic cell of society, precisely because of the anthropological and social repercussions, founded on marriage. An institution that requires, of course, commitment from the parties, but also recognition and support from the State. This foundation of society is made - in my opinion - more unstable and empty of meaning, with all the consequent risks. There are risks that some of my colleagues have already mentioned, and I would just like to mention as an example the issue of marriage of convenience. I understand that this is a subject on which very divergent positions converge, which I personally respect, and therefore I do not claim to hold solutions, but I have serious doubts about the proposed interventions. Doubts that arise also from the consideration of the impact that this type of fracture has on individuals and society and the fact that even the most consensual situations in the world present an asymmetry of the parties: there is, however, a weaker part that the State must absolutely adequately protect and protect, and I have serious doubts that, in the proposed framework, this protection is adequately achieved. I very much hope that the question of confidence in this text will not be raised, but that there will be room for action on this issue and that a serious assessment of the amending proposals will be carried out, that it will be able to accept the initiatives aimed at making those substantial and necessary changes to improve the text, also to prevent all this from turning for us on a great missed occasion. [[Applause from Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be voting in favour of converting the decree into law, but I believe that a broader reflection should be made. We have come from a season in which the inability to attack the problem of the inefficiency of our system of justice has led to successive measures that have tried to deflate the work of the magistrates strongly affecting the right of action of the citizens: the filters to appeals, the norms on the ultra-five-year peremption in the administrative processes, the contributions pushed to the stars in their monetary entity are all measures that have objectively restricted the possibility of defence of those concerned, in contrast, I repeat, with Article 24 of the Constitution. And even today we are witnessing measures that do not address the problem of the slowness of the process, because they do not attack the fundamental issue. The fundamental question is not legalisation, which must have the precise limit in Articles 24, 25 and 102 of the Constitution. The main point is to start from the petition of principle in relation to the actual brevity of the process. The time of the process must be the rule from which the whole reform of the process itself is declined. The brevity of the process is an element that must become an obligation, which must be accompanied by disciplinary responsibility for the magistrates, at a time when it is not respected; brevity involves a reform of custom, because when one accepts the idea that one must start from the brevity of the process, determined with a minimum of flexibility, but with certainty, it is clear that one is faced with a reform of custom, before a legal reform. I believe that in the face of the crisis of justice there is no one who can say that he has no responsibility; there is no legal actor who can say that he has no responsibility. This cannot be said by administrative operators, lawyers cannot say it, magistrates cannot say it, and then it is the road to a radical, determined and balanced reform that is needed. We need, that is, to really redesign the process on these bases: until we attack this problem, until we start from this assumption and on that we rediscipline the whole process, we will not obtain the speed of the Italian trials, nor will we obtain that Italian justice becomes a true European justice. Faced with all the right reforms that are presented to us as the reforms that bring us to Europe and make us attractive to the world economy, I continue to think that justice is the most important. It is clear that with a judicial system like ours there is no appeal for financial markets and economic operators, who need fast times and cannot think of having to wait five or six years to know if a cause of dismissal will have a positive or negative outcome. I am also thinking of the reflection that it will have effective justice, that it will decide in due time and that it will therefore give certainty of law and its application. It also has a profound impact on Italian social custom, as well as on the level of corruption in our country. It seems to me that it is quite clear that, when a substantive decision in an administrative appeal, for example, arrives - if it is okay - after ten years that the administrative measure has been challenged, we will have a useless judgment, because that unlawful measure will have produced its effects and, if it is the result of a crime, it will have produced all the illegal effects that it was to produce and the sentence will remain dead letter, but above all the protection of the interest of the person who acted will remain dead letter. And when civil justice is used to evade, for example, payment obligations, with all the repercussions that this causes - I think of the companies that can fail because they do not receive the sums due - we realize how dramatic the situation is and how necessary it is to approach the problem not through the deflation of judicial work, but through that of the efficiency of the system. It is clear that we can also envisage a wider role for so-called private justice, but only when we have a judicial system - the one enshrined in our Constitution - that is able to respond to the demand for justice, in due time and with the efficiency required. We cannot believe that our judicial system can be consistent with our Constitution if we do not achieve this objective. There must be a machine of justice that is able to respond in times due to all the demand for justice. On this premise there may then be recourse to arbitration, assisted negotiation or other forms that decentralise the exercise of the function; without this basis, however, I believe that these alternative forms are not entirely consistent with the Constitution, but, above all, they are forms that, rather than addressing and resolving the problem, to some extent leave it exactly as it is. One final consideration. I believe that the subject of civil backwardness is absolutely relevant. We cannot restart the civil justice machine unless we eliminate the 5.4 million pending trials. I hope that in other successive measures there will be a measure which will really attack this problem, because the simple hypothesis of recourse to arbitration is not, in my view, at least sufficient. The use of arbitration first poses a problem: the cost of arbitration. I hope that, from this point of view, there will be a forecast that tariffs will be kept at the lowest level. But there is another theme: all microjustice, from the point of view of the scale of the causes, is destined in this way to remain behind and probably not have a solution. In fact, I do not see how anyone who has an issue to solve whose figure is EUR 10,000, to give an example, can think of going before three referees. I don't see how you can think that when there's a lawsuit for a passing bondage, you go to three referees. Then, from this point of view, the theme of Article 24 of the Constitution returns, the theme of the right of action and the theme of the right to the protection of its rights returns. Therefore, the forecast of a measure guaranteeing the planning of the demolition of the civil setback is central, even to the question of backwardness. In this decree there is not a measure of this type, because to foresee the demolition of the civil backward means to foresee planning channels and therefore certain times for the disposal of this backward. I believe that, from this point of view, we must also consider the useful use of the honorary magistrates. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u79	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, as well as the opinion of the Board for the Rules expressed at its meeting of 7 June 2006, the allocation of the seat made vacant in the Emilia-Romagna Region following the resignation of Senator Rita Ghedini, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Mara Valdinosis. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I proclaim Senator Mara Valdinosi. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation. (Senator Valdinosi enters the Chamber). I welcome Senator Valdinosis. You can have a seat. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u81	Madam President, after listening to Senator Pagliari, I share what he has said. I wonder why we can never talk and dialogue with the Government or with those who propose certain laws with the same spirit and intention. Ever since I took care of the judicial organization, it has always been my own ball, even when I was a magistrate, and I always thought that there should be spasmodic attention on the part of lawmakers and legislators to the constitutional precept of the reasonable duration of the trial. To achieve this, however, it is necessary to have a minimum of knowledge of the science of the organization and, at the same time, to evaluate the effects of the norms. When I dealt with tax justice, I managed, Madam President, to cut back proceedings from around 4 million to around 300,000. In this case it would be equally possible, even following the indications of Senator Pagliari, to think of a coalition of forces that take account of the new and the old causes because, if not, such sectoral measures regarding the backward would have no effect. I invite you to read, if you like, my first amendment, replacing Article 1 of the Decree-Law, with which I intend to set up arbitration chambers for cases 1 to 100,000 euros, but for future cases that can be resolved, in order not to further aggravate the dispute. At the same time, there are provisions in that amendment aimed at resolving part of the backlog. In those articles, however, you will realize that in a whole series of provisions concerning the quality of the referee, the methods of his choice, his incompatibility is also indicated a minimum compensation for the cases from 70,000 to 100,000, which becomes 900 euros. In the case of late cases, however, it is not paid. The fee for the referee, for the lawyer, turns into a tax credit. What it means to perform the arbitration function without affecting the costs of the parties. Go and evaluate what are the tax incentives that are introduced for you to go before the arbitration chambers of the Billing. Then it does have its own function. Then it becomes a rule that can be usefully exploited for speeding up the process. Mr Ferri, you must listen. You have committed yourself in the Commission to producing a technical file on this amendment - and on others that I will then say - but it has not yet arrived. Since I am convinced that what I have foreseen is in the interest of the Government, I have approached this provision with the awareness, deriving from the experience - if you like - of magistrate, that only a serious, common initiative, could result in a benefit to the current situation of justice. In the face of this, I have here indicated the terms by which economic problems can be solved. I said that this part can be financed by the FUG, i.e. the Single Justice Fund. Go and read the other amendments as well. In the period 2015-2018, that is during the Renzi Government, in the 1,000 days - and only in these 1,000 days - the FUG is attributed to the Ministry of Justice in the measure of 50 percent instead of 30 percent and, of this 50 percent, 10 is given to the administrative staff for incentives that the Minister of Justice will have to identify through criteria. As you can see, therefore, this was and is a strong indication for the benefit of the Government. What was the answer? A nebulous answer: the arbitration chambers of the Bill are provided in the forensic order that we have approved, but have not yet been realized. Then let's make them. Let's move on. You know that we have approved a rule in the decree of public administration according to which all magistrates who are 70 years old will leave in December 2015. This is a rule that I agree with, but for how it is formulated and how it will be implemented it will lead to a disaster. We will, in fact, have about 400 people less and there are no time for a competition. Then I proposed to take into account a gradual approach: in December 2015, December 2016 and December 2017 magistrates will be staggered according to age, as you can read in my proposal. This would also lead to savings and, therefore, the possibility of using more than 49 million, according to what the Undersecretary has sent us with regard to the technical file made for the decree on public administration. It is 49 million that we would go to invest in these matters. As you can see, this was not an opposing position or an opposition which, by party, he said no. Let's move on. On Article 2, on the subject of an assisted negotiation agreement, I am surprised that the question has been raised in the Commission whether it should be assisted by one or more lawyers, since it is a convention and we want, at least in part, to ensure the weakest part. I am not the only one who says this: after tabling my amendment, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has also said this: how can you think that there are no two lawyers in the Assisted Convention? Each party must be assisted, because otherwise the strongest economically, both in the causes of commercial relations and - even - in those of the family, will have the possibility to condition the weaker part. How can you not accept such a hypothesis? Let's go further. You read that the magistrates must take 30 days off. Good. Obviously the magistrates immediately said: then we are like all public employees and we must be able to have 30 days of vacation. Up to now there were 45, but the time limits for filing judicial documents and judgments were not interrupted. Let me give you an example: if there is a hearing on 20 July, the sentences must be deposited on 20 August. Someone then began to support the need to interpret the suspension of deposit periods during the holiday period. Do you realize we'd go from 45 to 60 days? I had taken into account an old legislation of the judiciary (except that on a decree-law to discuss judicial order you could say a lot, but I look at it well, I don't want to make criticism). But I would like someone to answer me. I had proposed 36 days, of which the first six for the handling of current affairs and for the filing of documents, just as it was before. So, a 30-day vacation effectivity. Mr President, where did you invent all the magistrates taking their holidays from 1 to 31 August? Let me tell you this to President Renzi, who probably has no experience in the judicial world. But never! More than a third of the magistrates work during the period of suspension of the working terms! Not only for criminal cases and those with prisoners, but also for the whole matter of precautionary measures and family law. Presidential hearings are held throughout August! I'm more than a third of the magistrates working! So, what's your knowledge of judicial reality? What's this got to do with anything? With the specification, 36 days meant that six days had to be used for work and not for holidays (even if they were called holidays), as was the case before. The suspension of working time concerns, as the Constitutional Court says, the right of defence, which is essentially people who have less and who cannot apply to large firms with 30 lawyers or with different possibilities of staggering their holidays. On the other hand, an amendment was adopted in the Commission which provides, instead of 6 to 31 August, from 1 to 31 August, almost as if we were to give a corporate content to the lawyer class. I have been worried and worried, not only me but also Senator Buccarella, Senator Casson and others, about one very simple thing: if, hypothetically, a hearing is held on September 3, 4 or 5, lawyers must deposit final extras on August 15, which means that a study that is not equipped has no opportunity to work. And what firm isn't? The one the poor people are talking to. Then I ask: was it so abnormal to think of an interval of 6 August-6 September rather than from 1st to 31 August? What was the answer, President? None! Because it has to be. Because the magistrates have to take their vacation in August. Two thirds of the magistrates already make them today, but the remaining third has to work. It has no connection, then, with the suspension of the working terms with the vacation of the magistrates. They're two completely distinct things. As for the separation and divorce that I have already mentioned about the issue of constitutionality, I beg you, return to the Orlando text that is already a hyattura, but at least it had the goodness not to create problems for minors. Return to the exception, provided for in the Orlando text, according to which the new rules do not apply in the case of minor children because otherwise you have extended the time, in addition to not guaranteeing the protection of minors, with the need to appear before the prosecutor. When the counterparts reach an agreement through the lawyer, what do I do? They go before the judge and in a hearing everything is resolved, both for joint divorce and for consensual separation. So what's the point? Delete this part. I will be tabling an amendment to return to the Orlando text, which is wrong but at least does less damage than you have done to reach an agreement between the majority that does not take account of the principles, an agreement between the majority to arrive at any solution, without taking into account that the divorce law remains in force. I would also like to ask you, Mr Undersecretary, that you have the same experience as I do: what will be the effect if I, an Italian citizen, divorce a citizen of another European State from a civil servant or lawyer? In the other country will be recognized, missing a judge's determination on the impossibility of the recovery of coexistence? No! Just as we have never recognized the judgments of other European countries when such a determination was lacking. An investigation that is still alive. So, how can you make a procedural change, or pseudo-trial change, keeping up the substantive law that provides for another type of investigation? You need to reason. We must reason on an easy divorce, as the newspapers say today, when we had the opportunity to do things seriously, with the corrections planned. Madam President, these were corrections that we agreed unanimously in the Commission on the text voted by the House of Members. Why not choose that text and insert it here? A series of reforms were proposed on the timing of the presidential hearings. If you check, you'll see that for consensual separation and joint divorce, 30 days were planned. It was an authorising term, but obviously the judge, with respect to a number of terms that were indicated, would have had a strong indication from Parliament and I have never seen judges who do things on principle against Parliament. Then what is the reason why we have to go further? You think, Madam President, that I had signed an amendment by Senator Filippin which, in the case of joint divorce, did not involve separation. This is if there are no children, minors or non-self-sufficient adults, and if there is the judge's determination that it is impossible to rebuild living together. Those who confuse this aspect with the other aspect of separation, which concerns only one assumption, fall into ridicule. We cannot be content with the lawyers' statement that they have made an attempt at reconciliation. I ask some of my colleagues, who are lawyers: how many times, having gone to them for a cause of separation or divorce, have they not felt the sensitivity to try a conciliation or a consensual agreement with regard to judgment? You lawyers do it and you already did it. What's the difference, then? Why does the lawyer attest to that? Or, why do you attest to the fact that you have informed the parties that there is also family mediation? You already had this obligation to inform the parties. So what's the difference? Is this system preferable or is it that, according to the law, which is still in force, it is necessary to ascertain the impossibility of restoring coexistence? And I wonder, and I ask you, if you are aware that in this area, as in many others, citizens need legal certainty and rules. And if the divorce law is still in force, what does the citizen have to understand? Does the rule of substantive law or procedural law prevail which, in part, modifies procedural law? At this point, in fact, in the case of the presence of minor children, with your invention to go before the prosecutor, do you realize that, if I did the counsel, I would immediately advise the parties to make joint appeal and to go before the judge and not to apply to the prosecutor? In a few minutes, in fact, the judge will have all the acts to assess the adequacy of the agreement and will immediately decide by judgment, as it happens. Despite what some say, in fact, today happens that, on the same day of the hearing, the joint divorce sentence is published, and this throughout Italy. What, then, is the reason, if not that of a commercial of an advertising type, that will not have consequences? I may be wrong, but I don't care. I am interested to tell you that the proposals we have drawn up and which I have presented guarantee that the system will be speeded up. We would have had the opportunity to say that the reasonable time of the civil process is one year (but to exaggerate). I was part of a civil section in the 70s and 80s, having 1,300 cases in the role. Not just me, but all the other 18 judges in the Chamber, and we have never referred more than two months of investigative activity and four months for the college. The presidential hearings were held within a maximum of two months. That is the logic that must be followed. It is therefore about the organisation, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to identify by means of appropriate tables which interests must be protected. If the protected interest is to be valued in ensuring the management of cases, you need to strengthen certain sections, to give more judges, so as to ensure compliance with those times. If we were really to think in a cooperative way, not with an opinion against it without giving reasons, perhaps I would also correct some of my amendments; so we would have the possibility of guaranteeing a law of effective help to citizens, on the one hand, and containing those constitutional guarantees of defence in a process the duration of which is laid down in Article 111 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u82	Since the representative of the Government needs to be absent, I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.14 p.m. and resumed at 1.16 p.m.) Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u83	Madam President, I believe that in this House we must do a truthful operation and also explain to the outside world what is going on and what new things people will be confronted with. I will of course express the view of the New Right Centre and, I repeat, with all the initial concerns that we have had regarding the fact that such a sensitive matter - I am referring above all to Articles 6 and 12 of the provision concerning separation and divorce - was dealt with in a decree-law. Realistically, however, it has been noted that by now the Government had presented it, in these days our objective has been to work to make the measure rational, efficient and credible, dialogue with the Government, even a little roughly, thanks also to the competence of the rapporteur Cucca, who has carried out an effective action in this sense, and rejecting attempts, like that made yesterday evening in the Commission by Forza Italia and Movimento 5 Stars, to blow up the institution of marriage. That, in fact, is what this is all about. While we worked to improve the text presented, yesterday's attempt was even to include in a decree-law the so-called short divorce, then to reform the institution in an overall way with a decree-law, going in a direction totally opposed to that of a measure presented by the Government to dispose of the backwardness of justice. This is in fact the ratio of the decree: to dispose of the backwardness of justice. It is clear that if yesterday had passed an amendment establishing that to divorce instead of three years was enough six months, in the case of consensual divorce, or one year, in case of conflict, in the coming months we would have three years of concentrated work in six months and in one year. So instead of disposing of the backward, we would have weighed down justice, with the result that the Constitutional Court would probably have said, in a little while' time, that all marriages in the meantime would be cancelled again to be valid because it is clearly a completely unconstitutional rule. I know that because the Court has made the same reasoning on the Fini-Giovanardi law, saying that in the bill of conversion of a decree-law you cannot add articles that are not consubstantial to the title and the content of the decree itself. Last night Forza Italia tried to introduce an amendment in a decree-law that had a purpose totally opposite to what the Government wanted to pursue. On the other hand, we come to the point with regard to what we have managed to achieve, in our view, usefully. We insisted on one point, in Article 6, namely that marriage is one, and Senator Caliendo is right here. Article 29 of the Constitution states that the family is a natural society founded on marriage, which is an institution with its own publicity. The spouse, the marriage, exists whether there are children or there are no children. Rightly, it has been pointed out several times that even those who do not have children are a couple and it is not that not having children is a reduction: marriage exists, it has its social cohesion and its importance anyway. Four associations of lawyers, the National Association of Judges and the President of the Tribunal of Rome, came to the Court of Justice here at the Senate: we listened to what the magistrates, lawyers and the family forum said and they all said the same thing. For example, when all the lawyers' associations said that Article 6 should also be extended to couples with children, it certainly struck us. The logic of assistance by two lawyers with this innovative institution of assisted negotiation could also be extended to them, but under what condition? What did we insist on until nausea and boredom? Whether there are children or there are no children, it is necessary for someone to certify the dissolution of marriage or divorce. In fact, what did we get? So much so that there are children, as there are no children - as is stated in amendment 6.80 tabled by the rapporteur - the agreement for assisted negotiation must be transmitted within ten days to the prosecutor of the Republic to the competent court, which, when it considers that the agreement is in the interests of the children, authorizes it. However, when the prosecutor considers that the agreement does not correspond to the interests of the children, he shall, within five days, forward it to the President of the court, who shall determine, within the next thirty days, the appearance of the parties and shall provide without delay. The amendment tabled this morning by the rapporteur extends this verification of the prosecutor of the Republic also to the agreement concluded between the two spouses, precisely because there may be a weak party or a party that, in some way, is subordinate to the agreement. It was therefore essential for us to maintain the unity of this institution and to obtain a discipline that would certainly enhance the commitment of the parties and the role of lawyers to settle a whole series of issues when there is no conflict, I repeat. We are always talking, in fact, about an area of situations of agreement, in which there is no disagreement between the parties and we are already starting with the consensual intention to reach an agreement where there is no conflict to be settled. We have thus achieved this kind of result. I would add that the rapporteur writes in his amendment: The agreement states that lawyers have attempted to reconcile the parties and informed them of the possibility of family mediation. This, therefore, enters the text of the law as a fundamental element in order to arrive at a process in which it is certainly present, but not in a formal way: we were not inattentive, in fact, at the moment when Senator Caliendo insisted much in saying - in my opinion, in a contradictory way - that so much today the causes of consensual separation, if you make a dozen, you put only a visa, and do not waste time. This is very contradictory to the idea of not enhancing - always when there is consensus - this fact of lawyers and the discourse of conciliation and family mediation, which can be a useful mechanism. The mediation done well - and the statistics are there to prove it - means that most of those who eventually wanted to divorce or separate did not. I remember a point on which we will return about the short divorce: perhaps there is a fundamental misunderstanding, because everyone thinks that, once there has been a divorce, with children or without children, the problem is solved. Having held the office of Undersecretaries with delegation to family policies during the Berlusconi Government and having attended the associations of separate fathers and mothers, I have seen that there are 800,000 people - separated fathers and mothers, but we also involve grandparents - who after the divorce began to live a conflict that lasts for years, with terrifying struggles and quarrels over hallucinating children, as well as the emergence of patrimonial situations of poverty of those who lose their home and do not know where to live. Therefore, it is not that divorce is the sanatorium for which, once divorced, the problems of people's lives have been solved: in many cases, if before doing so, with mediation they had thought about it and had solved or endured problems that seemed gigantic they would have avoided more gigantic problems than those who thought they had solved, if they had had some patience before, to settle these issues with intelligence; this must be explained to those who want to divorce. Having said that, it remains a problem in Article 12 because here there is a dualism that is difficult to understand. It is true that, as the rapporteur has said several times, it is still the old institution; in case of agreement no one obliges mediation with the subsequent intervention of lawyers (you can always use the old institutions). Then there is this novelty, provided for in Article 6, of the agreement made through two lawyers (first the text provided for one but we have demanded that there be two, one in part, also to avoid that, as happens in these circumstances, there is a strong part that could affect the rights of the weak party). What is less understood is article 12, according to which two spouses who have no children can go - as the original text said - to the civil-state officer and declare to him that they dissolve the marriage, that they separate. It is a little bold, because in theory one could marry on Tuesdays and then on Fridays go before the civil state officer because he decided to dissolve the marriage, with everything that can result (some of the North League rightly spoke about the problem of marriages of convenience that can take place). Where did we operate? We had it written - and the change has passed - that first of all it is the mayor who must receive these statements from the spouses, and when he receives them he does not dissolve the marriage or write it down: he gives a month to the couple for a rethinking, a reflection, a deepening of the situation. After that, if, after a month, the couple does not reappear, it is clear that everything ends up in nothing; if it reappears, the speech changes. In fact, I remember that the mayor is a civil state officer; in our order - except for marriages celebrated in church - it is the mayor or his delegate who marrys the couple civilly, but before doing so, he controls the publications (he must check that there is a formal regularity, that one is not bigamo, that he does not have situations of incompatibility). So, if the mayor at the time when two people get married does this control of legality, even when two people want to separate, he has to do the same control of legality, because if, for example, he discovers that there are issues of public order or contra legem, he must surely detect it. In my opinion we have certainly not done a perfect thing, also because the matter is very difficult, but we have built a system that fits into the law, does not betray the constitutional principles, save the unity of the marriage institution and provides for judicial review. I also agree with the public: it must be rightly pointed out that these forecasts are valid when the two spouses agree with each other, so there is already a common, non-conflicting will at the base, and there is an accompaniment. I realize that in the debate we have in the Justice Commission we will have to deal with the problem of the time of the so-called short divorce, but here I am already saying one thing. We do not agree with the fact that the six-month and one-year terms are automatic, because they can be good for couples who do not have children, but we cannot theorize that it is enough six months from separation to divorce for a couple who have children, and therefore has a whole series of situations to be resolved with respect to a couple without children. We would then like to make a reflection in the Commission: we agree that three years are too many: let us reduce them, but let us do it with intelligence, diversifying the times from separation to divorce on the basis of the possible presence of children. But this is a speech that we will make in due time. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we are concerned, there has been a debate and discussion in the light of the sun, with the Government and with the other political forces, and we believe that the point of drop, for which we certainly do not jump for joy, is, however, satisfactory, a result to which the New Centro-Rextra Group can join. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u84	I inform the Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure, the prescribed number of senators has been requested to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Senate an urgent information by the Minister of the Economy in relation to the new serious financial crisis generated by the Greek Government's choices on the recovery plan imposed by the Community bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u85	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades, the responses of institutions and policy to the country's emergencies have been very slow. This slowness, in many cases, has even turned into inertia, while anger and social distress have been advancing for years at a very high speed. Until the arrival of the TAV Renzi, who with his Government has only announced, continuously, that he wants to turn Italy like a sock, but that shows, in the acts and in full continuity with the Italian Cattopardesca tradition, the apparent desire to change everything and then do not change anything. He has already done so with the reform of the Senate, presented as a measure to reduce the costs of politics but in fact in serious cuts in democracy. He has done so with the Provinces, which he constantly says he has abolished, but which continue to exist. He is doing so with the decree "Sfascia Italia" with which he tries to hand the country over to the criminal organizations and lords of the drills, after having brazenly participated in the recent UN Climate Summit. He does so now with this decree-law, with which he plans to resolve the long-standing problems of civil justice but which has already been defined by others as a probable spot, without having even thought of opening a serious and in-depth debate with the operators, both inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms, to evaluate also the dangerous aspects that have been highlighted in the question outlined this morning, unfortunately rejected by those who in this House, unconsciously, continue to vote without listening. The aspects, reiterated by my colleagues until recently, of danger with regard to the problem of minors, since the short divorce will certainly increase the number of children affected by these processes, require a much deeper and wider reflection than that related to the conversion of a decree-law, to be liquidated to ensure that I do not know which places by civil society! For years the judiciary has been seen as one of the main causes of the decline of our country, but such a conviction can only be the daughter of a rather reductive vision. It is true that the number of civil cases pending is abnormal, as Senator Stefani, Senator Pagliari and many others have recalled, but to motivate such delays with the lack of desire to work of the magistrates or with the presumed long periods of vacation of the judges, it means to have an approach almost whimsical, perhaps populist to the problem. The European Commission for the Effectiveness of Justice, according to which Italian judges are the most productive in the European Union, has also considered this approach, with some 2,800,000 cases disposed of only in the civil sector. So let's look at the hanging loads, but let's also look at the good work! Slowing down the judicial machinery would not be the supposed nature of the magistrates, but rather the disproportionate number of litigation pending before the judges and contributing decisively to the slowing down of this judicial machine, which should, on the other hand, ensure adequate costs for justice to be acceptable at all times. The main objective of such a measure should therefore have been to reduce significantly the number of disputes before the court through a change in the rules that allows to break down convenience and to lengthen judgments and appeals for those who are wrong or guilty. In this spirit, I too have tabled amendments. Amendment 1.2, in particular, proposes to allow the court to bring an attempt at mediation between the parties at the first useful hearing on pending civil cases which do not have unavailable rights and which do not concern employment, social security and social assistance. Therefore, the most sensitive materials to be treated have been excluded. This is also a proposal of common sense, but we have heard that others have been presented, corrective ones that could make a decree-law hasty, at least indispensable to guarantee really the decrease of the pending loads of the remarkable backward. It should therefore be ensured that recourse is made to the mediation institute, an institution which has recently been incorporated and which must be considered not as a compulsory way of resolving disputes, but as an additional tool to be used to overcome the deadlock and the inability to resolve conflicts and to find suitable solutions to ensure a balanced satisfaction of the contenders. It is an attempt to give people who for several years (sometimes eight, nine) have been dragging into endless disputes the possibility of going back to mediation. It is a proposal of common sense that would allow citizens to resolve their disputes more quickly. If the parties so wish, they may, if necessary, decide to spend on mediation and to define a case that never ends. I challenge anyone to show that Italians would not be happy, happy to reduce the amount of work of judges and (non-negligible aspect in this period of economic crisis) also create jobs. I really hope that the representative of the Government will give a serious reflection on the demands that have come (adding this small contribution of mine) and really reconsider what changes to accept in order to make the judicial litigation procedure more looser and to ensure more rapid and fairer justice for all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u87	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u88	Madam President, this morning I heard many colleagues say that this decree-law is the Government's response to the problem of civil justice and that, therefore, this is the reform of the civil process. We need to clear the field immediately from this misunderstanding. This measure does not solve the problems of civil justice. This decree has very precise and limited boundaries and objectives: on the one hand, to reduce civil litigation through the possibility of the transfer to arbitration of proceedings pending before the judicial authority and, on the other hand, to promote alternative measures to the ordinary resolution of disputes in the trial. I say this because the reform of the civil process that this country desperately needs cannot be achieved through a decree, but requires organic interventions, precise, punctual and courageous, such as that of the law of delegation of reorganization of the civil process that has been announced by the Government and whose guidelines are already known to fellow senators. This work will take time, which will require comparison; it is a work of reordering the rules, starting with those of civil procedure, which must allow to eliminate a great deal of rituals, regulatory contortions, difficulties, complications that encourage quarrelsomeness and therefore also the inflation of justice. This decree does not have this purpose: this decree serves precisely to reduce the existing litigation and to experiment alternative measures to avoid litigation and its jurisdiction. Of course, more could be done, and I immediately come to the point where, in my opinion, more could be done. I refer to Articles 6 and 12 of the Decree-Law, which deal with the issue of separation, divorce and the instruments for modifying the economic or property conditions of the same. Let us begin immediately by saying that this is not the short divorce. A great deal of confusion has been made in this area and it is good to clarify things immediately. Law No. 898 of 1970, that is, the Law on Divorce, is not affected by this decree; therefore it remains intact in all its presuppositions. This decree intervenes simply by allowing an alternative place where the agreement between the spouses can form and if this alternative agreement between the spouses has formed, it allows a faster, privileged way, because this agreement, referring to the text of the law on divorce, acquires effectiveness also in the world of the ordering. This is what assisted negotiation is for: it serves to arrive at a sharing on the part of the spouses about the crisis of their relationship, the ways in which this relationship can be somehow governed and therefore also, evaluated the impossibility of the reconstitution of coexistence, of moral and material communion, to reach its definitive dissolution, that is to say, the cessation of the civil effects of marriage. The scrutiny remains on the part of the official, because with the amendment proposed by the rapporteur to Article 6, assisted negotiation has been extended also to cases of spouses with children or children who are incapable, but this assisted negotiation requires a subsequent passage through the prosecutor and the court which must ensure compliance with the rules and a correct principle of balance and protection of weak persons, in particular minors. Personally, as the rapporteur knows, I had prepared another wording for this text, but of course, in the face of the rapporteur's proposal, I gladly put it back. This doesn't touch divorce times. The times of the current divorce are the same as those laid down by Law No. 898 and subsequent provisions. The three years of uninterrupted separation from the date of approval of the separation in court or from the date on which the agreement is certified shall remain, if this decree is converted. Three years of uninterrupted separation. The short divorce, on the other hand, aims at a completely different purpose, at reducing the time between separation and divorce: for this reason I proposed the inclusion, through a series of amendments, of the text that had already been voted on in the House. But for what reason? Because now our country is mature in order to arrive at a revision of Law No. 898 of 1970 on divorce, a revision that is more appropriate to the times, the reality, the society and the problems of the spouses today. I would like some of the speakers this morning to attend courtrooms or perhaps to have assisted two spouses who would like to file a divorce application. Nothing that allows a stay in a court of law helps the family. The continuation of causes and trials destroys people and families and, very often, affects - sometimes even definitively - the future of those same people. It is therefore the task of the legislator to assess all the opportunities and possibilities for avoiding the appeal in court, to be reserved only at the final moment of the verification, control and scrutiny in which it must be established that all the legal conditions have been respected and that the principles of protection of the weak - beginning with the minor children - have been safeguarded. Perhaps the time has come when the divorce law - No. 898 of 1970 - must be rethought in its presupposition. Senator Caliendo was very courteous in repeatedly quoting the amendments that I had tabled to this text and that we also shared in the matter of short divorce. But, as Senator Caliendo knows, I also proposed an amendment that I myself had called a legal provocation, asking to consider - or to open at least a debate on this - the will of the spouses about the intolerableness of the continuation of coexistence as a characterizing element, surpassing the publicistic aspect of the absolute reservation of the evaluation of this aspect to the State. Is it only the State, through the court, that must say whether a couple is finished or not? I believe that this reflection must be done. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] For this reason, I believe that a review of the whole delicate system of family law - Senator Stefani is right - must start from an organic reform of the same, which therefore places adequate attention on what are the needs of the machinery of justice - the acceleration of the times - but which is also respectful of the people and the rights of the same. Article 6, which concerns assisted negotiation, now extended also to couples with minor children and children who are incapable, achieves exactly this objective: it involves the lawyering - however one of the pillars of the justice system - in the definition of these disputes, but always with a view to the respect and protection of rights and the valorization of the freedom of persons. In fact, we cannot think that the law is used as a scallop or as a rope that forces couples to stay together despite the disaster that their coexistence and their being together produces between them and among the people who are next to them. Article 12 also extended the possibility of concluding a separation or divorce agreement (cessation of civil effects) even before the civil state officer. The rapporteur proposed a subsequent amendment, providing for some time for rethinking and evaluating this decision by the spouses. Here, too, I must point out one aspect of Senator Caliendo's intervention: Law No. 898 of 1970 on divorce has not been touched, which means that the amount of documentation to be produced at the time of the request or the declaration has not been touched. What does this mean? It means, for example, that individual spouses' tax returns must be attached to the application or declaration and therefore it will be possible to verify, in that place, whether there really is a weak spouse who is under undue pressure from the other or not. Let us remember that, however, this is a limited hypothesis, because it excludes minor children, excludes disabled adult children and excludes adult children without economic capacity. They are two adults who freely declare that their relationship is over and ask the State to take note of it. Perhaps the time has come for this issue to be addressed in a secular way, trying to arrive at legislation that is appropriate to our times. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u89	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u90	Let us now turn to the discussion of the proposal to include an urgent information from the Minister for Economic Affairs in the agenda of the Assembly. I would remind you that one Senator per Group may speak on this proposal for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u93	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the request was made on the basis of objective assessments. It is clear that, after the closure of yesterday's Bags, there are financial problems that can only affect our country. The other day, at the end of the vote on the DEF, we were unable to appreciate, by the presence and words of Minister Padoan, his assessment of the general situation. It is therefore clear that the elements must be put in line. Renzi always gives us a very reassuring image and Padoan is there to do a bit like the red fish in the aquarium. We would therefore like to have your presence here to ensure that the accounts are kept, especially in the light of what happened yesterday after the closure of the bags. I am convinced that Senator Zanda and PD will also appreciate this request and therefore there may be unanimity on it, not having to make further demands. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u96	TONINI (PD). Madam President, we appreciate the spirit of the League's proposal, but we do not support it and we do not support it, for the simple reason that we have just finished the debate in this House on the DEF Update Note, with the presence of the Government, and on Wednesday the presence of the President of the Council is scheduled. It was once said: ubi maior, minor cessation. We therefore believe that this is the time when the right concerns expressed by our colleagues in the League can be dealt with in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u97	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u100	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u101	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, I'll take the session off.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-333.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 21 October, the first at 12 noon and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.54 p.m.
