ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, although in general disattention, we normally listen to the words spoken by the Senator Secretary who reads the Minutes. A serious inaccuracy has been written. In the statements at the beginning of the session of President Grasso, it was written: "the persons responsible for accidents in the Chamber" (i.e. "The Council of President... decided to stigmatize and censor the behaviour of the Senators of the League Group responsible for accidents"). We would like the words'responsible for accidents' to be replaced by the expression 'authors of the protest', because we assume all responsibility for the protest, but not for the incidents because the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group have protested as often happens in this House. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Fucksia.]] Two of our senators were standing, indeed very firm, on the stairs and probably prevented access to assistants, but there was no physical contact, so there is no direct responsibility for accidents. I therefore ask the Presidency to change that passage in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u5	The Presidency takes note of what Senator Divine said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u8	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u12	On behalf of the presidency of the Senate, before we begin the debate on the agenda, I invite the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the Bologna massacre. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law n° 1579, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate began.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u15	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Airola? On the order of business? AIROLA (M5S). But yes, even if by now, having handed over the Rules of Procedure, because it no longer applies to me in this House, my speech can be defined either as a personal matter or as a personal matter. Yesterday Senator Stefano Esposito had the courage to declare...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u16	If it's personal, I'll sign you up to talk at the end of the session. [[Live comments from Senators Santangelo and Cappelletti]] AIROLA (M5S). Then let's say it's on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's not start like this: you have to tell me what you intend to do. AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, either you let me make the statement, and we'll finish in 30 seconds, or I'll talk to you all the time. [[Protests from the PD Group]] That little Esposito... CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). President, push the button! [[Senator Santangelo stands up and comments livelylyly.]] Senator Santangelo, sit in your place and behave properly. Senator Airola, what is your speech about? [[Senator Santangelo continues to stand.]] Senator Santangelo, sit down and sit down! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Yesterday Senator Esposito had the courage to declare that, with the triggers in the mountains, indeed - I correct myself - with the triggers at the sea, democracy goes fast. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I invite you to sit down again. SANTANGELO (M5S). Get the video off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Santangelo, have a seat. AIROLA (M5S). It doesn't matter: as long as they hear these four gentlemen here. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Scibona.]] Senator Santangelo, I'll call you back for the second time. Sit down. Senator Airola is speaking, if AIROLA (M5S) has not realized it. I just want to tell Senator Esposito we didn't go to the beach, okay? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Perfect. AIROLA (M5S). Perfect! We're interested in working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And you're here. AIROLA (M5S). And challenge these four servants of Renzi... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] That's enough. AIROLA (M5S). ...with these four government scoundrels! [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Comments and protests from the PD Group.]] He's registered to speak... [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups]] . .please, everyone stay in his place and do not take the floor if he is not given. AIROLA (M5S). This is not a real Chamber: you are shameful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you finished your speech. Thank you. AIROLA (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. [[Live comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] Please, frankly, I'm asking you to leave it alone. Senator Airola did his surgery for a minute. Let's resume our work. Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u17	Madam President, I take the floor to speak with the House and also with the Government about a specific aspect of the measure that we are about to adopt with the announced vote of confidence. I am referring to Article 6a, which puts an end to the administration of the Commission. My agenda is on this subject, which, by virtue of the presence of the vote of confidence, will lapse along with the amendments which have also been tabled. That agenda is intended to recommend that the Government take responsibility for the continuity of the administrative procedures, which have already begun or are being completed, by the Commissioner's management, in such a way that all the activities of that management - where it is recognized as legitimate, it is intended - can find perfection and fulfilment. This is an important issue because the good things done by that Commissioner's management are good to find, as I said a moment ago, completion. If that were not the case - for this reason I address the Government - we would find ourselves in the curious situation of having taken time and economic resources to get to the head of a portion of the very serious problem of prison building in Italy and to have thrown away that time and those resources. It is about securing that economic and management effort. It is for this reason that I address Minister Orlando, asking him for an explicit demonstration of the willingness of the Government to give continuity to all administrative procedures - in case they are legitimate, it is understood - put in place, but not yet carried out by the Commissioner's management. There are prisons that have been contracted, but have not been completed; there are procurement procedures that have just been banned, but are beyond that to come from being carried out. All this great effort, if not completed, runs the risk of harming the policies that this very measure, on which we are going to give a vote of confidence, wants to secure. I would also ask the rapporteur, Mr Casson, to take up this point in his comments. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u18	I urge the senators, please, to lower their voices and allow those who speak to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u19	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on this measure I would like to express, on the one hand, an appreciation and, on the other hand, an invitation. Appreciation is due to the decrease of more than 10,000 units of the prison population, achieved with multiple instruments, over a year, by two governments. However, the undeniable final effort expressed by Minister Orlando, who went to Strasbourg to put his face (as we say) in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, and to obtain its encouragement and comfort, must be recognized. Since at the beginning of this journey the prison population was estimated at more than 65,000 prisoners and the Italian prisons guaranteed and guaranteed about 40,000 actual places, there was a chronic overcrowding of one third. We are now swinging over 54,000 prisoners and, among them, over the last six months - this is a figure I want to point out - thanks to these measures we have increased from 22,000 foreign prisoners to 18,000. This is due to the rules allowing the immediate identification of foreign prisoners entering the institutions, as well as the rules facilitating the transition from the IECs to the border. It is a careful use of the means of deflation in prison which can be put into effect by the exercise of the delegation on decriminalization conferred by Parliament, but which, to be sure, will also be able to make use of the methods of better use of the existing structures suggested by Parliament. For example, the presence of penal colonies in large and small islands, with modest resources to rehabilitate the premises, can allow a good diversification of prison requirements on the front of the minimum criminal law, making it really dignified and useful for the re-education of those who are subjected to the security measure of the agricultural colony or the working house. On the other hand, on the opposite side of maximum security prison law, fulfilling the need for isolation through the restoration of structures such as that of the island of Pianosa. Parliament can therefore make useful contributions to the better management of the penitentiary system, but it is the government's responsibility to discern between those contributions inspired by the re-educational function of the sentence and those which come from a drift that infiltrates the parliamentary fora and which originates directly in the worst corporate demands of the judiciary. This is certainly the case with Article 5-bis, which the Commission has correctly deleted: it must not be attributed to the magistrates, at the end of the internship, even before the first assessment of professionalism, the functions of a supervisory magistrate. Correctly, in the Senate Commission, it has been noted that these magistrates cannot issue acts in the matter of personal freedom; it is quite alien to the system to regard the nature of detention acts as different, which affect personal freedom exactly as an arrest warrant. The Minister receives from this lesser story a lesson also in relation to the thousand ways in which lobbying arrives to place corporate norms - in this case to protect the older levels - in the legislative texts. The same question of the 8 euros lends itself, at least in perspective, to this reading: from the parts of the DAP it is not believed that with this disbursement you wash your conscience from the obligation to improve a penitentiary system. Parliament does not wish to support the continuation of an unsustainable situation, according to the criteria of civilisation and respect for human rights laid down by Strasbourg. What started in Parliament, also thanks to the demands of the Head of State, must continue and be completed by the bureaucracy of Via Arenula. In order to prevent the judicial process at the European Court of Human Rights from resumed, here too we use the system of monetization of suffering, introduced in our legal system by the Pinto law in 2001 for the excessive duration of the trials in Italy. As the Minister's report on the administration of justice in 2011, the Pinto system has contributed to increasing the excessive volume of business dealt with by the territorial courts, which in fact are generally not respectful of the legal deadline of four months after the appeal for the deposit of the decree. In that document, Minister Severino addressed to the heads of the courts the firm invitation to the immediate fixing and conclusion of the procedures by law Pinto in order to avoid the increase of interest on compensations and the intensification of the international litigation, sanctioning the Italian State not only for the delay in the payments of compensations, but also for the delay in the treatment. The Pinto law has been authoritatively defined as a mere palliative, so much so that there are now numerous appeals for the excessive duration of the processes for the recognition of the compensation provided by the Pinto law. Let us try not to reach these extremes here, but let us solve once and for all the problem of inhuman and degrading treatment: it is extremely embarrassing for our country to be condemned for violating the obligation of the State to ensure that every prisoner is held in conditions that are compatible with respect for human dignity, that the execution of the measure does not expose the person concerned to dangers - and the deaths in prison show us that such dangers exist - or evidence of an intensity that exceeds the inevitable level of suffering inherent in the detention and that, having regard to the practical needs of the prisoner's detention, the health and well-being, are adequately assured. These conditions have been repeatedly examined by the European Court in a number of judgments. In conclusion, Minister, this measure is not a reason for resting on the laurels. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u21	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u22	Madam President, I had thought of giving up speaking on this subject in general debate, because I thought that it did not have great significance to continue to talk about decrees which are the symbol, first of all, of a wrong and ineffective method. But then I thought that it is appropriate to take tirelessly advantage of every moment that is given to us to continue to remember, incessantly and stubbornly, that this is not the way to proceed, that this is not the right dialectic [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] that this is not what a parliamentary democracy must be with an effective executive, who intervenes. Talking about this matter and criticizing the content of this decree-law would be like shooting at the Red Cross, because it is undoubtedly a measure that deals with limited situations. I shall then turn to some aspects which I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister, who honors us with his presence, all of you colleagues and those who want to listen and reflect. Meanwhile, this subject, precisely because it is controversial, should be addressed within the parliamentary dialectic. There are differences of view: colleagues in the League undoubtedly have a very strong position and very distant from other colleagues. Now, this is where the diversity of views can be resolved, because in reality, within a free debate, common sense prevails. I believe that, on many of the issues that have been addressed here, citizens, Italians and ourselves are asking for common sense solutions, which are well structured, rooted and effective for a long time. Common sense is not built with the sound of decrees, it is not built with confidence; common sense is built with dialectic, and in the Commission justice there would be all the space and the possibility of being able to activate this dialectic. But that is not the case, because, while filling our mouths - I still remember President Zanda who, a week before the elections, in this House, had agreed with the then president of the Movimento 5 Stelle Buccarella Group in carrying out the anti-corruption bill, which still lies - we are all waiting for September. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups.]] We are waiting for September for the draft anti-corruption law; we are waiting for September for provisions concerning the civil liability of magistrates (we are still in infringement proceedings, as for this decree); we are waiting for September for proposals concerning civil rights. We are waiting for September, we are always waiting: an en waitant Godot continuous, which destroys parliamentary democracy, which cancels the possibility of really making choices that are shared and common sense. In the name of what? Of a pact that is outside of these classrooms, in the name of a rotten one that stands in Denmark? Well, let's talk about another aspect. In this decree-law was inserted into the House a theme which here, in the Justice Commission, was rejected. Now I would like to go into the matter because I have already reported these figures to you and I would like to re-present them, and from now on for every bill, for every decree-law, I will make it clear to you. Present in the Chamber: 445; voters: 415; abstained: 30; yes: 305; no: 110. These are the Chamber numbers, which are added to the numbers we have already said. The House is already reduced in its number. I have been told that a lot of people are on a mission in the House; if regularly the MPs on a mission range from 185 (the absent to the examination of the decree-law that we are examining) to over 200 of the examination of the law on cooperation, then I say that it is the Chamber of Missionaries rather than the Chamber of Deputies [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups.]] I wonder, therefore, why we are not legitimately aware of the fact that this is a de facto body that has been reduced in number and that we are not peacefully ratifying this situation. Minister, I do not want to prolong my speech, but only to stress that our country needs measures that are close to the needs of the citizens, because if there was once the Verre only in Sicily, now we have a battalion of Verre scattered all over the peninsula. We need serious provisions which, on the one hand, guarantee, on the other hand, give this country a sense of legality, of compliance with the rules. I would therefore like to say that the first rules to be respected are the constitutional ones that still exist and that give the two Chambers the opportunity to act, with the intervention certainly well accepted by the Government; however, we must be free to proceed, to debate, even on different positions we must have the power to find mediation, the path of common sense, what is lacking here and lacking with a certain complicity. In fact, if this country has been severely damaged in its history by those who say: I shoot straight, it is also true that the responsibility lies first of all in the silent complicity of those who do not want to see it as a risk. Minister, we are waiting for you in the Commission. I really hope that after this pause we can proceed on all these matters, but according to the way that it is really a parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups and Senator Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u23	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u24	Madam President, I am very sorry for the way in which the government is proceeding, which first does damage and then prevents the Chambers from trying to at least remedy it. On the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration today will be placed trust. We know from the cafeteria, which said that this afternoon it closes; we know from your trolleys to the wardrobe, ready for the holidays. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore no change, no improvement can be made to a medieval measure, expected that, at least for some parts, it is really a return to the Middle Ages. I refer to the Melphian constitutions of the first half of the thirteenth century, which established the "defensa": a financial saving, 2,000 augustars, equivalent today to 30 euros, that the gentleman could throw on the body of the victim raped to protect himself from possible consequences. It was enough for him to throw these 30 denarii. DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, do we have to listen to this nonsense? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u25	Please, Senator Endrizzi, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u26	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). I see my tongue beats where your tooth hurts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u27	Senator, continue your speech without questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u28	ENDRIZZI (M5S). It was enough to say "Long live the 'emperor, graces' to Deo and the gentleman remained unpunished. Today we would have liked to forget all this, which remained in our penal code until 1981, with the abolition - finally - of the reparational marriage, through which the rapist even of a minor escaped the consequences by marrying the victim, thus condemning it to an eternal penalty. Well, we are in the presence of a further legacy of these measures, through the introduction of the principle that an inhuman penalty can be repaired by paying eight euros a day (not even 30 euros), thereby contradicting the constitutional principle that the penalty cannot be contrary to human rights and must aim at re-education. On the contrary, where prison cannot be re-educational, it simply operates a penalty discount, a cash compensation. It is an irrational norm because it does not repair the defect of civilization, of humanity, but rather confirms that power can escape judgment with this screen anyway. Other measures, then, would have been necessary, such as the immediate recruitment of 1,000 prison police officers and the implementation of a prison plan that we have already proposed and lies unheard of for a year, to intervene therefore on evil and not on the sick, on those who suffer. My attention then goes to life sentences. To a lifer we say? We tell him that, with eight euros a day, which is equivalent to one and a half packs of cigarettes, he is in prison to serve a sentence and must remain silent, because of course those who have been sentenced to five life sentences cannot be reduced. We already have a considerable responsibility on this issue. Some have said that, for the ergastolone, the fourth degree of judgment is the autopsy. Well, today we are called to give a real turning point to our judicial and criminal system, to our prison system, but this must be ethical and educational, because we know that impunity encourages crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, I invite you to conclude. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. Where rehabilitation programmes are lacking, relapse is very high, more than 80%, where such programmes are planned, the percentage of people returning to prison again falls to 5% or 10%, depending on the reality. We know that the certainty of the sentence, rather than its size, is a discouraging measure to commit crimes and we do not act on it, but rather we give the bad and contrary signal that it shows that all in all we intend to fix it in this way. The 5 Star Movement is not facing this embarrassment. Other measures contained in the decree could, perhaps, be assessed differently, but I believe that even a single sign of incivility should cause a measure such as this to fall. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u30	Madam President, Minister, we are critical of the conversion of this decree-law into law, because for the fifth time there is a government intervention on a serious and serious problem. Now, Madam President, if we were to ask a first grade child a first grade question of this kind: On a 420-seater plane, can we get 650 people? Can the plane take off? and he would reply "yes" without thinking that in this way it would endanger the life of those who would stand on the plane during the flight, the teacher would reject it or postpone it for the following year. If the following year the answer was still the same, and the following one again, at the fifth time, I think the teacher would say to him: Enough, you're not fit to study, you have to do something else. Well, the government is like this child, who can't solve the problem, and continues to put 650 people in a carrier where it should put 420. Then, of the two: either he is unable to govern because he is unable to understand that, in order to solve the problem, he must realize two carriers that allow him to carry all passengers, or he does not have the resources for the two carriers, Minister. Well, this Constitutional Charter that many trample on, because they do not know it, was written by the Fathers and Mothers of the Homeland who had a very precise DNA. But anyone who doesn't have that DNA can't understand it, so he carries out battles here to modify it, without even knowing where to start. Have I heard Members speak about the 8 euros (which are few) to be given to prisoners and say that they should not give them either, because they are criminals, and these people speak and speak of the Constitution? But they should be ashamed! Here, in the Constitution, in Article 27, it says that the rights of prisoners must be guaranteed and if they are not, we do not know the effort that our Fathers have made, Madam President. The Government does not even know that there is another instrument in this Constitution, which the President of the Republic has also reminded us of, and it does not serve five of them, namely the indult and amnesty that would have resolved everything, while you are still here to intervene on interventions, without understanding that we should have intervened as the President, the Supreme Court and also at European level have told us. There's nothing to do, though, who doesn't have the DNA guarantee can't do it! I see that this DNA is missing completely in our Commission and, moreover, with those who are executed, Senator Lumia, there is nothing to do, because they cannot understand the values of this Constitutional Charter. With respect to values like these, it is useless for a lion to say that he is a kitten; it is useless for communists to say that they are socialists, because they always remain communists, regardless of what they say. Then, Madam President, I must tell the Minister - if he listens to us - to have courage (and this is what he has or does not have): to apply what our Fathers have told us. Then do this indult and this amnesty, so that we solve the problem at source, not with continuous interventions, which make us ridiculous at European level! Of course, following the Torreggiani judgment and the consequent risk of infringement on our part - which we must keep constantly in mind - we are led to make minor interventions. This Charter, however, is not the certificate of sound and robust constitution that was made by the doctor or the medical officer, but a more important thing, which must be respected in what is the first part, in which we can already grasp what we should do. We, Madam President, have done a Commission job and we have also discussed it. Mr Minister, will you not soon put your trust in the work done by the Justice Commission? Perhaps not even at the time of the dictatorships did this; then apparently they conditioned the Commission and then made it deliberate in the sense of the will of the ruler. The Commission has entered into the substance and evaluated the text of the Chamber, expunging article 5-a. Why did you want to expunge him? Here too, I would like to give an example, such as that of the pupil who is facing the problem of the 420 seat carrier, where 650 passengers cannot fit in. It is an even more elementary example: how do you say that you give the functions of a supervisory magistrate at the end of an internship? How can one say that a surgeon who does not yet have the practicality of the exercise of the health arts is brought into the operating room and is made to intervene alone in a monocratic way for an intervention of aorto-coronary bypass? But would you be able to operate under these conditions, Madam President? Would you ask the Minister, please, if he would operate with a young medical student who has no practice and who is doing an intervention for which we need experience, quality, skills and above all manual skills? Ah, but inmates are B-class citizens, they're like prostitutes before the Merlin Act, who couldn't even get on second or third-class trains and didn't have the right to vote; they were citizens who didn't deserve the rights of everyone else. Are inmates therefore citizens that we must not respect? Europe already tells us to respect Article 1 and Article 3 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which speak clearly; otherwise we will be charged with an infringement that will pay our citizens. But, dear God, there is a Commission that works, debates and establishes by a very large majority that must be expounded and deleted, Article 5-a, inserted in the text of the Government, where there was no, by the Chamber of Deputies. This Senate wants to make a contribution through an amendment tabled by the President of the Commission Palma, various forces, those of opposition, but also those of majority, have tried to make the Government understand, and they make it clear with an absolutely bipartisan vote, that Article 5-a is to be expunged, that it is against the Constitution, that it is against common sense. But you, Minister, wouldn't you want to reinstate that article? Why, if this is done and if, Madam President, the Commission's work should not be taken into account, what is the permanent Commission doing? What does the Commission mean from a legislative point of view? Does that mean we're wasting our time? And then, Madam President, I hope that you will intervene on the Government, to point out that the work of the Commission cannot be frustrated, because, if that were to happen, my assumptions would become certain, so this would be a government that stands out, that doesn't even know where the guarantee is and that it doesn't give a damn about respecting the rights of the European Convention. Some say they're socialist by name, but in fact they don't even know where socialist DNA is at home. He who speaks to you has it and has it completely; maybe those who are next to him have it at 50%, but something socialist has it. That is why I urge you, Madam President, to speak on the Government, so that it does not offend the Justice Commission, not taking due account of its decision by a very large majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u31	Madam President, with this decree-law we put another important part to give a structural response to prison overcrowding. We were in front of us two streets. The first refers to amnesty and indult. A noble road, planned and exercised in all democracies at solemn moments, a road set in motion when the country lives particular moments and there is a sharing, a fundamental choir that goes through the democratic dynamics of a society, when there is full sharing between citizens and institutions. Our country, alas, in the course of its recent democratic life has not been able to use these noble and important instruments provided by our Constitution. Italy has used them to provide short-term, interim and emerging responses, and the results have been seen. Falling results, partial, since after 14 months - as evidenced by a research carried out in the Commission justice - the flow that resumes the path that has produced that overcrowding for which amnesty and indult intervened. At last we have chosen the other way, more difficult, more complex, but structural. This road has involved several interventions and here, in the Senate, we made a valuable contribution to its openness to ensure that the interventions were structural, permanent and really able to give effect to the principle of treatment and education provided for in our Constitution. And this without endangering that right to security, a new generation right, to which our country must pay much attention and to which our institutions (Parliament, governments, institutional territorial realities) must increasingly give a systemic and design response. I would remind my colleagues that we had about 68,000 prisoners before structural interventions. Today we have finally reached the threshold of 54,000, and this figure continues to decline without the country having been able to record any social alarm, without this having led to a laxity such as to be interpreted as a decrease in the levels of security among citizens, between economic operators. Through the combined arrangement of different rules, structural choices have been made to give this positive result. We have very much appreciated the choice made in the justice committee and then here, in this House, on issues that have been going through the cultural debate on justice for decades. I am referring, for example, to decriminalisation, testing, revisiting protective custody, as well as arrest and home detention. In this way the Minister was able to deal in a few months with the issue of the Torreggiani judgment, which in Europe represented a slap in the face of our country, a heavy slap, making sure that from Europe we began to look at Italy with different eyes. In this decree we give a response aimed at ensuring that the approximately 6,000 cases before the European Court of Human Rights are finally no longer an opportunity to expose our country to heavy judgments. At the same time, we need to consider a problem of the spilling of large resources because we have failed to protect the human rights of prisoners. Now the mechanism is different. As was well explained yesterday by the rapporteur (several speeches have been made in this regard), the combination between the possibility of a reduction in the sentence and a substitute compensation allowance puts us in a position to give a civil and modern response. There are still some notes that have been raised by several speeches on which we call for special attention from the Minister. Minister Orlando, there has been almost unanimous convergence in the Justice Commission on the need to review certain points which have been included mainly through the work of the House of Deputies. On the substance, an important issue concerns the supervisory judges. The office of the supervisory judges has been loaded and overloaded with new functions, so it needs to be put in a position to work well. We must therefore provide for a strengthening of the supervisory magistrates. The House has made a choice: to respond to this real deficiency by using the young magistrates who have just entered the judiciary. However, we felt that this delicate task of safeguarding freedom and evaluation should have a little more experience behind it. We therefore call on you to ensure that in the measures which you will have at your disposal a few weeks from now, this measure is corrected so that this decree-law can be adopted, but by correcting the point that you have met with almost unanimous judgment within the Commission, in this regard, by overcoming the barrier that often hinders an objective assessment between majority and opposition. There is a second question, Mr Minister, which has been put to you and concerns children who have suffered a penalty and who must live that treatment and reeducational experience outside the prison circuit. When you're over 21, what happens? It is true, Minister, that many of these risks being thrown back into the classic prison circuit where the educational and treatment experience is canceled and cancelled. But be careful, Minister, because bringing them back into direct contact with children can also be a counterproductive solution. We ask you to find a solution, especially on the administrative level, on the concrete and organizational level (need that has been raised by several interventions, also by Senator Lo Giudice, in particular, who asked you to pay particular attention) that could be realized through differentiated circuits with a personalized attention, since, among other things, it is estimated that the cases will not be many, but few. Then there is a third question that concerns the president. I invite you to conclude. LUMIA (PD). ...the measure that has been inserted on the famous precautionary prognosis. I think that in this case the House of Deputies was right to include the so-called double-track discipline, that is, the possibility of not applying the measure of detention in prison or that of house arrest if the judge considers that the sentence can be granted conditional suspension of the sentence. The House of Deputies wanted to take a further step forward, on this prognosis, by calculating it on the prison sentence actually imposed, rather than on the punishment of the crime and put the double track - we too, Minister - excluding serious crimes such as mafia, terrorism, violence, stalking, aggravated theft or drugs. Mr Minister, this measure, however, in its implementation phase must be governed by the exercise of a delegation which you have at your disposal, in order to ensure that there is no conflict and that the security of citizens is respected, which I repeat is an important value, which we want to protect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Lumia. LUMIA (PD). So, Minister, we expect answers, so that the assent of this House is convinced and can be shared by a large majority and also by important sectors of the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u32	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u33	I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u34	Madam President, of course I have listened to all my fellow senators who have spoken and, precisely with regard to the report I carried out yesterday, I would like to stress that it was a purely technical and aseptic report, because the critical points that I had pointed out and which I had called critical of the decree-law were all confirmed and also extended in the course of this general debate. It is clear that on this decree-law persist the perplexities that have been pointed out, I would say by all the senators who intervened, from the first to the last, including Senator Lumia. It is equally clear that it would have been appropriate to go hand in hand, at appropriate times, with attempts at deepening, as has also been done within the Justice Commission, which at one point had even modified the text of the Decree-Law. The issues which have raised doubts in particular are those relating to the procedures for compensation for the damage and the question of the magistrates of supervision, who will be able to enter that office immediately, as soon as they have passed the competition in the judiciary, thus derogating from specific rules, given the sensitivity of the function. Another critical issue is that of cohabitation within the structures of minors and inmates. Another point is the one raised by my colleague Senator Sonego on Commissioner's management, with reference to Article 6-a, and yet another is that relating to the so-called double track. Certainly, in such a delicate matter, some insights should have been allowed. On the other hand, it is indisputable that the Torreggiani judgment imposed on the Government and required Parliament to adopt a measure of this kind as a whole. As pointed out in the general debate, during this parliamentary term, there was a recent attempt to modify the entire plant, both substantial criminal and criminal proceedings, with the aim of lightening and improving the prison situation, rightly so much criticized, at international level. If it is indisputable that changes should have been made, the proposed imposition of the vote of confidence and the tight deadlines in order to prevent the decree-law from decaying, require that the government be given the floor to hear what its position is. (The sitting was suspended at 10.35 a.m. and resumed at 10.35 a.m.) Because, even if I saw the many amendments tabled, I would say that they would certainly have allowed for a deepening of the debate which would perhaps have made some changes. However - I repeat - the tight deadlines and the need for the decree-law to enter into force with the amendments that have been approved cut these positive intentions that had been expressed. I conclude by saying that this decree-law is part of all the rules concerning the improvement of the substantive criminal system and the system of criminal procedural law that this Government has adopted. This certainly has already produced its fruits on the prison world. This is another, so to speak, drop and perhaps even more than a drop, in the sense that it is certainly a measure that will improve certain situations. However, it will be necessary, indeed, to take further action to complete the programme of amendment of the criminal system that was adopted by the Minister of Justice when he was installed, as he also announced in our Commission on the subject. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u35	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u36	Mr President, Senators, I would like to thank you for the contributions that have been made and that can also allow for the further development of policies that will have to concern our prison administration, on which I reserve the right to report to this House as soon as possible. However, before replying to some questions, I would like to retrace in an almost chronic way the case of prisons and the ground on which we found ourselves intervening at the inauguration of this Executive. Over time, there has been a contradiction - I do not want to discuss the merits of how well-founded and acceptable it is - about the use of prison as the main instrument of the sanction, an increasing recourse to prison, to which it has not met a capacity in terms of detention posts. The escalation of this phenomenon has led to a set of numbers that has brought us closer to the 70,000 prisoners between 2011 and 2012, with a system that - still today retains these characteristics - has among the highest payout rates in Europe and the highest costs for taxpayers. The Torreggiani judgment is not the cause, but the effect of this dynamic. The governments that have succeeded in the course of time since the Court of Strasbourg's report - I would like to remind them: the Berlusconi Government, the Monti Government and the Letta Government - have tried to intervene on this point through a series of measures that affected some points, namely the early liberation, the revision of the presuppositions of the precautionary officer and a better logistical use of the available structures. Therefore, no cancellation of punishment, an alternative road to that of indult and amnesty. This too can be discussed, but - allow me - we cannot speak of indult or creeping amnesty. It cannot be done simply by the fact that no prisoner in this country has suddenly been erased. There have been re-determines of the sentence, there have been reconsiderations of the mode of the sentence, there have been important interventions by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation, then, which imposed a re-determination of the sentence, because some prisoners were in prison on the basis of an assessment that did not find correct constitutional conditions. Since the establishment of this Government we have worked to speed up the repatriation of prisoners - it has been my care to sign an agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco in March this year - and to implement the procedures necessary for the full implementation of the framework agreement for the repatriation of prisoners, even without consent, within the European Union. We have signed 14 conventions since March of this year with the Italian regions, to allow some already foreseen rules to have effective implementation: I refer, for example, to what made it possible to impose alternative penalties on the prison for drug addicts. Attention: you often write beautiful norms, but they remain on paper because then there are no administrative conditions for these to be realized; a large part of the Italian Regions had not signed these conventions, which we have done in the course of these months. We have realized - I consider it an important fact - a database, still incomplete, that does not simply look at the quantity, that is to say, how many people are in that individual prison, but the type of treatment, the type of activity and the use of the work that is carried out inside the prison. From this point of view I demand that this Government has given rise to an indication contained in the Smuraglia law, which allows a better use of resources and an unlocking of the resources necessary for the promotion of work in prison which, as everyone knows, is one of the fundamental conditions for the lowering of relapse. In January of this year, the numbers were still mercilessly speaking to us of 64,000 prisoners, and this on the eve of the passage, which we then realized a few weeks later, at the Court of Strasbourg; so much so that in March of this year the Committee of Ministers of Strasbourg still remembered that Italy had not taken the necessary steps to deal with the questions raised by the judgment in Torreggiani. There were problems of merit, but there were also and above all problems of communication of the efforts that the authorities had already made in the meantime. Currently, as has been pointed out, there are 54,000 prisoners, with a passage from 12,432 to 8.665 for those awaiting trial at first instance. However, the improvement of numbers did not correspond to a question that was actually already contained in Torreggiani, that is the theme of internal remedies, and on this I would invite a reflection. Strasbourg does not tell us that we have to deal with this issue in one way rather than the other (and then it will assess its congruence), but above all it points to the fact that we, until the adoption of this decree, are a country without internal remedies in relation to the possibility of resorting to inhumane and degrading detention. From this point of view, Senator Falanga is right when yesterday he stressed a parallelism with the Pinto law. The Pinto Act was a way of intervening in order to prevent the litigation from going to Strasbourg immediately and to provide for an internal remedy in relation to the question of the timing of the trial. What is the element of substantial difference compared to the Pinto law? That we intervene when the numbers have already improved. While on the Pinto law we have intervened in the face of a process that continued to increase their time, as far as the question of intervention on the prisons is concerned we at this moment introduce internal remedies, but in the light of the fact that our country no longer has prisoners in a space less than three square meters and that the overcrowding, which I still do not consider totally resolved, starts however to a possible solution at hand. So it's all sorted out? No, because Torreggiani also poses another series of questions that we cannot of course solve with a decree: it poses the problem of the model of detention in our country, which leads excessively to a liability of the prisoner; it places us the poor recourse of our order to alternative penalties, but it was not a decree certainly that could resolve this issue. From this point of view, I believe that the proposals we are going to make on the subject of the reform of the penitentiary system, also linked to the reform of justice, are very important. However, some points of the system have been addressed in this decree where it could not be done otherwise. I am referring first of all to the issue of the precautionary officer. On this point we did not have the claim to solve the problem, but we had the claim to be able to overcome a double compliance that prevented the possibility of bringing to completion a legislative path that Chamber and Senate had started and that concerns an organic discipline of the matter. I am convinced that we need a comprehensive vision, a mechanism of weights and counterweights, an articulated system that allows the best use of protective measures and cannot be a single rule to solve this issue as a whole. The government's action was simply to intervene to unlock that situation. Today the ball returns to Parliament, which I hope will be able to dismiss as soon as possible a text that has its own harmony, as I tend to think it has what has already been read on most of the points. Again on the systemic issue, there is another point that I claim and that I consider very important and I have said it since my inauguration: it is the overcoming of the police station, which has not produced the benefits that were expected, as in many other areas. Emergential legislation, the idea of entrusting to a person a task that the Government as a whole has failed to face, I believe it has failed for the umpteenth time. From this point of view, overcoming this institution is an important step forward, which can also be taken because we have solved the problem of overcrowding or, in any case, started to solve it. Otherwise it would become clear that emergency calls, at least from the conceptual point of view, another emergency. I want to say something very frankly about surveillance. I pay tribute to the orderly forecast which prevents the first-time judges from taking on a series of particularly delicate functions. Attention, because at this moment the combination of early retirement and a recruitment difficulty that continues to persist in a number of problems risks clearing some offices in which voids determine in fact a fall of the guarantees. There are surveillance offices that at the moment, not having the necessary staff, are not able to take note also of the normative innovations or they do it very late. All this, however, does not cover me with regard to the need to tackle this issue in an organic way, and I believe from this point of view that the Commission's emphasis on the need to regulate the issue of new members of the judiciary in a reasonable manner is well founded. In this sense, although I cannot re-produce the text as it came out of the Commission, I am committed to overcoming this rule to the first useful measure and to addressing the issue of the use of new accesses within the judiciary in an organic way, even with a comparison with the competent Senate Commission, which has highlighted some elements that are absolutely acceptable. I would like to take up two other issues. The first concerns the issue of 21-25 years. The issue that is highlighted is real, but the issue that we have addressed I think is even more real (sorry the bickering of words). We have a juvenile prison system that is an excellence at European level and instead a system of ordinary detention that has the problems we are talking about. A boy enters prison, faces a path and - I'm not a fool - sometimes even gets results on the ground of rehabilitation. Then, at the end of the 21st year of age, he ends up in Poggioreale or Ucciardone or San Vittore, frustrating the previous path. The question is as follows. Of course, keeping adults with young people creates a number of problems, but I wonder if the problem of bureaucratic deletion of perspectives is not more serious just because a person at some point turned 21. That is the question I ask everyone. Since I believe that the answer is shared by everyone, then certainly it must be sought on the administrative front, on the management of the current places within the juvenile circuit, but it cannot be a rule a priori to regulate what are the conditions of the prisoner when he has finished a journey or is about to finish it. In short, to conclude, I am convinced that with this measure we have not solved the issue of the setting up of the prison system, but I believe that we have cured the fever in its highest state. Today there are conditions for more comprehensive intervention and I believe that the contributions that will be made by all political forces will have to be collected. I hope that on this issue the rate of propaganda will fall, because the figure I mentioned is as follows: the policies that have driven towards jailing have not increased the level of security of the citizens, because in parallel they have only increased the rate of relapse, which in our country is one of the highest. Let us start from this fact; let us compare ourselves with the instruments; let us look at what other countries do, which above all develop the penalties of an alternative nature to prison. Today, however, there are conditions for an organic reform that will for once intervene, not on the basis of emergency and disaster, but on the basis of conditions that are progressively improving. No triumphalism, but also legitimate pride in the fact that once and for all an international context recognizes us as significant progress that has been made over these years and not just because of this Government. I shall conclude on one point. We cannot talk about 'paghetta', as I have heard over the years, with regard to the subject of EUR 8. The element of compensation for the violation of a right concerns all individuals, including those who have made themselves liable for heinous penalties, at least so provides the international convention to which we have freely acceded. The other way would be to get away from the jurisdiction that protects human rights, but frankly I wouldn't dare recommend it to anyone. I stress this fact, because I believe that each of us cares about the image and prestige of our country, as well as the conditions of humanity and civilization that it manages to achieve within its own prison system. I would like each of you to reflect on what a condemnation of human rights violations would have meant when the Presidency of the European Union opened for our country. We avoided that risk. We have not yet come to terms with all our responsibilities and duties; I am talking about a country that has accumulated delays and malfunctions in this system, but if progress has been made, I believe that this is due to the collaboration of many of the political forces present in Parliament and from this point of view I thank you for the work that has been done and for what I am sure will still be done in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u37	You asked the Minister for relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of bill No 1579, which converted Decree-Law No 92 of 26 June 2014, into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u39	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.54 a.m. and resumed at 11.29 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u40	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law in prison matters, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the debate on confidence, 25 minutes were allocated and explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 13 o'clock. The Conference of Leaders also decided, by a majority, to resume examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act on Monday at 2 p.m. until midnight. So tomorrow's sitting will not take place. The other meetings already provided for in the timetable remain firm, with the arguments indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u41	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, organised the question of trust in the draft law No 1579 (Decree-Law No 92 on prison matters) and adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments to the current timetable: [[Saturday 2 August ant. h. 9,30 - Drawing of law no. 1579 - Decree-Law No. 92, in prison matters (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Approved on August 26)]] [[Monday, August 4 pom. h. 14-24 - Following constitutional bill n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawing of law n. 1582 - Decree-Law n. 90, public administration (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 23 August) Tuesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-24 Wednesday 6 " ant. h. 9,30-24 Thursday 7 " ant. h. 9,30-24 Friday 8 " ant. h. 9,30-24]] In order to allow the work of the Commissions, the sittings provided for in the calendar will be suspended from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Amendments to draft law No 1582 (Decree-Law No 90, Public Administration) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 4 August. The Presidency is empowered to include on the agenda of the Assembly the discussion of the decree-laws on the agenda. The calendar will be supplemented by an examination of the internal budget and the Senate's accounts. Time distribution for discussion of bill 1429 and related (Constitutional Reform) (115 hours, including explanations of vote) [[President, Rapporteurs and Government 8 h. Votes 80 h. Groups 20 hours, of which: PD 4 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 2 h. 50' M5S 2 h. 15' NCD 2 h. Mixed 1 h. 45' LN-Aut 1 h. 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 1 h. 22' GAL 1 h. 22' PI 1 h. 19' SCP 1 h. 13' Interventions in dissent 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCPI 18' Final voting statements: 2 h.]] Time distribution for the general discussion of the question of trust in draft law No 1579 (Decree-Law No 92 on prison matters) [[Groups 25 minutes (*), of which: M5S 10' LN-Aut 10' LAL 5' (*) The allocation of time, according to a non-rigidly proportional criterion, takes into account requests made by certain Groups. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1582 (Decree-Law No 90, Public Administration) (7 hours, including explanations of vote)]] [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u44	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking for clarification and not for controversy. Does the text that is submitted to confidence take into account the amendment phase that it had in the Senate in the Commission? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Obviously not, but Minister Orlando said that he would consider this issue. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you will allow me, I believe that this is the last rift you are making, because, in practice, when the question of trust is raised, the work done in the Commission is used and included in the maxi amendment. Come on, we're used to it. You should know, Mr President, that this is not the way to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u47	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have a proposal for an alternative timetable. The President-in-Office of the Council has been giggling for weeks with the statement that this Senate will work until 24 o'clock every day and, moreover, the timetable which was in force - and should still be in force - for Monday 28 July, scheduled for 11 a.m. to 24 a.m., for Tuesday 29 July, sitting from 9.30 a.m. to 24 p.m. and so on, until the supposed end of work on 8 August, with a sitting from 9.30 a.m. to 24 a.m. In view of the fact that this timetable was proposed by the majority groups, I do not think it is appropriate to rinse your mouth, as has been done, with the great ability to work late at night because it is about constitutional reforms. Now, because there is no longer a condition of adequate representativeness of this measure, from which the country's main opposition force has dropped because it is unacceptable to continue to face it as the House and the majority were facing it, you can go home on Saturday and Sunday and change the calendar. This is not acceptable: the timetable must remain in place; you must show that you keep your word; you must prove to the country that this House also faces a filthy constitutional reform, as you have devised, from 9.30 a.m. to 24 a.m. No one should be allowed to change this. Therefore, the alternative calendar proposal of the 5 Star Movement Group is to maintain the current calendar: sitting every day from 9.30 a.m. to 24 a.m. We're here, we've said it, and we're gonna stay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Take responsibility for denying the same calendar that you proposed and approved with our consent. Do it: do it in front of everyone and go on vacation. We'll stay here. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as everyone can see, the proposal to amend the timetable was voted by a majority. It is also clear that, after having spent hours and hours at the meetings of the Conference of Leaders trying to make a very different reasoning on the organization of our work, now, instead (after, with the external messages, we have always been referred to, among other things, as a Senate that evidently thought only of its own chair and perhaps did not want to work), we note that it is the majority that asks to change the calendar. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, not only do we think it is necessary to maintain the previous timetable, but we would also have the opportunity to introduce a number of issues that you did not want to include last time. I was thinking, for example, since we have a lot of time, that the anti-corruption bill could be brought to the House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u53	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, as we also said at the Conference of the Leaders, since the question of confidence was raised by Mr Boschi there, we should only have talked about the time needed for the discussion of this measure, because it must be so, because at the time when the work of this House on trust is being interrupted, the Conference of the Leaders must discuss only this point and no one else, especially given that it seems - but I am almost certain - that today the focus is not so much on content, but on trying to finish as soon as possible because at least we are going home this weekend. We're dealing with a measure by which the government decides to give 240 euros a month to criminals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] And not to decent people, President, and we're almost stressed that we're probably not able to book our flight home as soon as possible. This is an unworthy thing, President, given that President Renzi accuses us, accuses all the members of this Assembly, of being armchairs, of thinking only about the cadrega and of thinking little about the interests of Italians. We here are thinking about the flight back home for the weekend, President, and that is not fair to honest citizens, who are out and following tweets, watching Facebook and the smiles of the President of the Council when he talks about the Senate, President. Then, it was said that work was done on Saturday and Sunday and so be it, because I don't want to go through what he doesn't want to do anything; I don't want Mr. Renzi to go to the pages of the newspapers tomorrow to say that we wanted to go to the sea. I don't want to go to the beach, ma'am, I've been taking the change all week until 8:00. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini and Orellana]] I told my senators to give up their holidays in August. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini and Orellana]] And you, most of you, think about doing the weekend at a time when you're discussing such an important decree-law. When we talk about the constitutional revision we have to stay here until midnight, we have to go crazy because the President-in-Office of the Council promised to deal with it by August. When it comes to serious problems, however, we need to think about how to spend the weekend and get out of this House as soon as possible. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u54	So, your proposal is to keep the previous calendar, if I understand correctly? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). My proposal is that we move forward with the reforms, Mr President, so as soon as we are done with the call, keep the previous timetable and work until midnight, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u55	[[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Ironic applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u56	I put to the vote the proposal to maintain the previous calendar, made by Senators Petrocelli and Centinario. It's not approved. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Shame! Washing! GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. The Senate doesn't approve. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] I put to the vote the proposal made by Senator De Petris, which provides, in addition to the maintenance of the previous calendar, the further variation of the insertion of the bill anticorruption. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u57	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so. [[Live comments from Senator Lezzi.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lezzi, please, Senator Barani is about to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u58	Mr President, we believe that the question of trust in the text that came out of the House has brought offense to this House, because the Justice Commission has worked days and days to make its contribution, and so the Commission and this House did not deserve to see their work frustrated by the trust placed on the text of the House. The Minister said that they cured the symptom that is fever: of course, the fever cured her, but the disease remained and the prisons remained overcrowded. How to say: the surgery succeeded, but the patient died. That is why we believe, Mr President, that you should intervene with the Government in order to bring it back to democratic dialectic: the work of the Senate cannot be considered nullified on purely temporal matters, i.e. not to bring the text back to the House because it must go on holiday at a time before what would have been if the text had returned to it. I conclude by stressing that the Minister admitted that we were right to change it and he undertook to do so in the first useful speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u59	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u60	Mr President, we are once again talking here about a measure that we continue to write on that list that we call empty prisons: another name cannot be given to it. Let us remember that, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Commission has basically taken measures that speak only of the problem of prison overcrowding, but we wonder, first, whether they have actually given results and, secondly, what other results they have obtained, regarding the confidence of our citizens in the protection of security that is necessary for all citizens. We also wonder if there are any other issues that need to be addressed in the area of justice. So far we have talked about early release measures, increasing from 45 to 75 days per semester. We talked about the forecast of house arrests for all crimes up to three years, the institute of testing, because it is expected to apply this instrument of reeducation for all crimes up to four years; we have foreseen the mitigation of the institute of protective custody. These are all measures which, first and foremost, as we have contested several times, continue to intervene in a commercial way: we talked about protective custody in the last measure and now we do it again. There has been talk of decriminalisation, including the disastrous repeal of the crime of illegal immigration and today we are going back to talking about protective custody with the almost concrete impossibility of applying it for all crimes up to three years of punishment, that is, for even more serious crimes, and we should now tell our citizens, to people who currently see even higher rates of predatory crimes. This is also a problem arising from the problem of illegal immigration, because we must realize that operation Mare nostrum has created a very difficult and delicate situation made up of people who enter our territory and who do not have a job, do not have a job, do not have a home; regardless of their personal situation even of humanitarian disaster, you understand that in the middle there is someone who could very well think of surviving by applying himself to crime. Now, in the umpteenth measure that we are discussing, this is the way to face justice in Italy. Our dearest President Renzi talks about the 12 points of the reform of justice, which was to arrive in June according to the beautiful calendar that had been proposed to us; however, in June we did not see the reform of justice, but this text, among other things presented through the instrument of the decree-law. Let us remember that the decree-law is a measure of government initiative that imposes - as it is now - the times that have taken away from this Parliament the opportunity to express itself. Let us also remember that in the Committee on Justice we have been dealing with issues for some time now, we unravel them, we discuss them, we come to deepen them and then there are some announcements of the kind that the Government is preparing a bill, it is doing another initiative. However, we must remember that we are the ones who legislate, and in our opinion it is very serious what has happened, namely that we have not included in the text on which trust was placed the amendment that was accepted in the Commission. This is very serious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In addition, as the rapporteur has pointed out, there are a great many problems on this text, not only the opposition, not only us in the North League, but also many representatives of the majority. If I am not mistaken, the rapporteur, Senator Casson, is from the Democratic Party and he says that there are a number of concerns about the procedure for seeking compensation for those famous 8 euros; in the end, one must have a lawyer to ask for compensation and this is an issue that we had dealt with. As for the problem of the application of the juvenile process to subjects who are 25 years old, we all find it hard to believe that subjects who are 25 years old are children. Other issues also concern the reduction of custody and the application to the judiciary of the supervision of first-appointed magistrates. The perplexities have been highlighted and had to be addressed here. That is why we in the Northern League have tabled more than 100 amendments in the Committee on Justice, but the behaviour we have done in the Commission - and all my colleagues will be able to do so - was not obstructive. We did not want to obstruct the Justice Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I have even withdrawn a number of amendments myself to bring the whole Commission at least to reflect on the text and to have time to address itself and then resolve its problems. The time is there: there is time to modify the text and there is time to then send it back to the House. It's just that there's the will. This morning, just to avoid the imposition of trust - let's call it trust, but it is precisely an imposition with which you come to say either so or skip the whole counter [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I have tabled a motion for a resolution to withdraw some of the amendments. There was all the time it took to examine the text during today's day until midnight. We could certainly explain the amendments, evaluate and make changes, and there was also time for the House of Deputies. In essence, however, if we want to be victims of what is imposed, if we also want to say that the Senate is now completely destitute of all power, since what is done in the House can no longer be modified by it, we must say so. We have asked, and have therefore tabled the amendment, for the Senate to be removed. You want it in practice, but you don't want it in the text. We, on the other hand, requested it. In any case, we will continue to make a close opposition on all the measures to our examination and - as we have repeated several times - the Torreggiani judgment exists and we know it; it must be dealt with in another way, it will probably take more time. We have to tackle the problem of prison housing; and at least we have to begin to tackle another problem: our colleague Castelli told us that, when he was Minister, he has repeatedly tried to find agreements so that foreign prisoners can atone for their punishment in the country of origin. This is also a path to use. If this House and the Government still insist on taking advantage of those who are criminals - whether the crime is small, serious or very serious - they are always criminals - then we move on to our citizenship, to our citizens, to the idea that justice is not there. When an offended party sees the criminal who has caused her harm free, which can be a theft or a more serious fact, it feels a feeling of weakness and insecurity. At this precise historical moment, in which the institutions are unfortunately weak and there is a feeling that politics is not serious, our fellow citizens need to see signs of absolute seriousness. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u61	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u62	Mr President, I shall use - or at least I will try to do so - all the minutes at my disposal, until the last second, not only because of the importance of the question on which we are going to reason, but also and above all because of the climate within which the reflection is taking place, which is of the utmost attention to my left and of the same attention to my right. It is obvious, obvious and - but let me say this - Cartesian that it is extraordinarily important for the whole of the House, with all those present, what is being decided. I am referring to a decree-law which, in fact, is imposed on Parliament - the request for confidence is nothing more than a coercion, a violence which the Commission is doing to the detriment, first of all, of its own majority - simply because we do not want to go into the matter and above all because we do not want to waste time. As our President-in-Office of the Council points out, we must do things and we must do them quickly because the sea is rightly waiting for us. I would therefore like to recapture the wisdom of Senator Stefano Esposito's words, which I do not see in this Chamber, but which, together with other colleagues, I have been told during these days when he debated and voted on constitutional reforms, he was able to vote even though he was not present in the Chamber; perhaps, for those who are believers, the holy spirit provided for him or, perhaps, some constitutional ball could do this mysterious operation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As Senator Stefano Esposito, with statements that have been promptly relaunched by the press and media agencies of a regime that, by now, I must call despotic, a Parliament in which the 5 Star Movement does not participate in the work, is a Parliament that works more effectively. Well, if the effectiveness is measured over time and with the time through which you come to take a determination, I will use all my time, to bring you the plagues from decubito and to let you hold as much as possible in here [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to make you miss the plane, the train or any other means of transport that is necessary for you to return to the sea to show the "dots, dots" clear. You have to let the Italians know that too. Why should we also mention the measure? Because the measure, as we have understood, is a masked indult who intervenes, if I remember correctly, for the sixth time just in recent years. In fact, if one hurts, he is always forced to correct what has been wronged. That's always because you have to do it quickly. The important thing is not to do well, but to do quickly. It's not nice to crash into a wall at 40 kilometers an hour, it's much nicer to crash into a wall at 200 an hour, perhaps disabling airbags and other protective measures, as might be a second Chamber, which thanks to the institute of double reading can also allow the Government - why not - to realize mistakes made. Perhaps, in fact, all those who have a perception of their limited condition of humanity are aware, as the good Socrates wanted, that every now and then they can be mistaken. Only those who are absolutely sure of their perfection are convinced that they cannot make mistakes and, being unable to make mistakes, do not go to 200 per hour, but to 300 per hour. Matthew, who is a runner and who, evidently, putting confidence on a continuous basis, shows some pain because he probably no longer controls his majority [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , is imposing, again in this case, an indult that in fact reduces by about a tenth the penalties to many categories of convicted and detained. It must be emphasized here that on the basis of the decree-law, which will be converted by the will of this majority, in fact but also by law, the judge will be unable to proceed against anyone in the direction of arrest or custody, if he considers that the expected sentence may be equal to or less than three years. This may seem like an absolute thought of common sense, since we have been repeating for more and more years that our prisons are overcrowded and that the prisoners, who have the misfortune of being such in Italy, almost envy those of Turkey or some other State that in the past years was considered an emblem of civilization because of the condition in which it forced those who must be recovered, and not simply punished because it was wrong. Very well: instead we think we solve the problems in this way, absolutely unsound and ineffective. Although I am not a jurist, I would like to stress that someone you once listened to very often, Gherardo Colombo, has developed reflections - which I remember too - in a little book entitled "Il pardon responsabile" (Responsible Forgiveness), of which I would pay homage to many, provided that the words said followed subsequent votes. Your problem, in fact, colleagues, is that you say 'a' by doing 'b' then, and as long as we are in a country of incoherent, hypocrites and forgetful - not of Collegno, but of Parliament - we will always have an absolutely useless debate, like what is taking place in these minutes, because words are not given meaning and you are always able to change semanthema to the word just said. This is a trick that a certain Plato had identified in the techniques that the sophists produced simply to get right. You, ladies and gentlemen of all the Groups, are not interested in coming together with the truth: it is simply a matter of obtaining quantitative reason, i.e. majority voting. This has been demonstrated - and I regret to mention this - also in the conduct of the debate during the discussion of the so-called constitutional reforms - or perhaps, as one of my colleagues called it, "prostitutional" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , where the call is not to prostate, but to other - simply because you want to win. Me and the 5 Star Movement are not interested in winning: me and the 5 Star Movement are interested in building civilizations. If you are capable of this and if you want to share this, we are ready to pay tribute to so many proposals that do not come from us, but from civil society, associations and intelligences such as that of Gherardo Colombo or Piercamillo Davigo. Unfortunately, you do not want to build civilizations of all this, because you only care about consensus. Then I will use all the seconds at my disposal to say that there is a decision here whether to continue to...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u63	Conclude, Senator Morra: I don't want to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u64	MORRA (M5S). I am concluding, Mr President, by myself, partly because sometimes my eyes fall on the intermittent red light of the microphone. We must understand if we want to build a different future for those who still feel Italian today or if we want to condemn Italians to the same fate - which is not irreversible, if we want to - to whom the Longobards, the Byzantines, the Normans and the many civilizations that have eclipsed have been condemned. Having perhaps read Spengler - although I don't think, but perhaps you did it unknowingly - you want to live on you, but above all on others too, the tragedy of the collapse of a civilization. Here I am fighting for so many and so many young people who, regardless of the vote, are convinced that Italy - and all humanity - can be given back a hope. You are denying it, even with this vote and this climate, that for yet another confidence an arrogant majority has decided to impose on Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u65	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u68	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate what I said yesterday in the general debate on the measure, given the commitments made by Mr Orlando. There are of course no problems, and there would have been no problems after the question of trust was raised, so I declare the Group's vote in favour of the government's confidence. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u71	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would have liked those who speak now behind us to have been here yesterday like us working without going for a walk. [[Warm protests from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u72	Senator Airola, your inhuman screams, please spare us. Don't yell like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u73	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] Barani (GAL). Mr President, I have already asked you: I will be the first - and I have already done so - to submit to the test... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, let's not provoke further reactions. [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola. I pray to the Parent Company... where's the Parent Company? Please, Senator Barani. Let's not go back to things that we thought were over. Barani (GAL). Mr President, I am not accusing anyone. But it makes some sense to be screaming in the back, also because I am a socialist and I am not afraid of these screams. We have also brought democracy back to Italy against those screams that did not want this treaty of democracy, the Constitutional Court, to be written and that would allow, for all these years, the possibility of having in the two chambers, in this Parliament, anyone. [[Comments of Senator Marton]] All the forces, thanks to this Constitution, have been able to sit on these benches: this is the true democracy. 12.06 p.m. (Follow Barani). Just talking about the text and the speeches that have been made, Mr President, we believe that there are no differences in rights between the citizen who has behaved honestly and the young man who, of course, wrong, has committed car theft or apartment, and therefore has not behaved in accordance with the rules. We believe that there are no differences, in terms of rights, not even among all those who have committed the most serious crimes. I don't say it: the Constitution says it, the Convention on Human Rights says it, the Church says it, Pope Francis says it and socialist Lucio Barani says it. Our Constitution, in Article 27, clearly states that the prisoner must be guaranteed conditions of humanity and not endure violence or inhuman treatment; that is all he says. We need to make sure that this happens, because there is no difference, in terms of rights, because we all need to be in a position to receive treatments that must not be of torture, nor inhuman or degrading. This teaching, which comes to us from the constituent Fathers, we believe that it is the polar star, the comet of all that must be our work. And that is why we have tried to make a contribution; Senator Falanga himself has presented a text on indult and amnesty. I had the opportunity to speak personally with the Minister, saying that in 1946 a communist, Togliatti, had that courage. But now, with the communists who have become Christian Democrats, this courage is no longer there. We must have an impact on the base, we must be able to understand that action must be taken in such a way as to allow ordinary laws to keep the system in balance. So, if that is true, it is even more true that the Commissions must be able to work, as they have done, but they must also be respected and listened to, because otherwise Parliament's work becomes useless. The decree speaks of 8 euros of compensation for each day on which he suffered the prejudice. But the word prejudice, to which reference is made in the Law on penitentiary law, is not vague, as in the case of the decree, but is well qualified as prejudice to the exercise of the rights of prisoners. It is a clearly regrettable circumstance, which makes it objectively ridiculous to set the compensation forecast in 8 euros for each day when a recluse has suffered a violation of its rights. Would you, ladies and gentlemen, be able to quantify economically an adequate amount of compensation for violations of your human right? I don't think you'd set that amount in 8 euros. It is not an indult disguised this, absolutely: it comes to compensate for a damage that someone has suffered because of the State, who has not been able to guarantee him the respect of his rights. Another hot spot of this decree is Article 8, where it is intended to limit the use of the instrument of protective custody. This is also an issue on which we have been debating several times during this parliamentary term. I have said it several times and I repeat it: protective custody is a tool to be used clearly as an extreme ratio, knowing that statistics say that 50 percent of people in protective custody are then judged innocent. How do you think you're putting innocent people in jail? It is an instrument imagined as an exception and does not rule, an exception to refer to only in case of serious needs, which cannot and should not constitute an ordinary measure and above all a measure to make career certain pm, who want to appear in the press and then enter the House or Senate or become mayors in their cities. Yet it is an instrument of which there has been a great deal of abuse and which continues to be abused, and not because I say so, but because the judges say so because half of the prisoners waiting for trial, ergo in protective custody, are then declared innocent. We are talking about a slightly too high percentage and, I repeat, it is not my conviction that the numbers and judgments of the judges say so. As I have pointed out several times, this is yet another measure that has been taken in prison matters in a few months. We realize that if we do not grasp the bull by the horns we cannot solve the problems inherent in the matter in question. This is because, always and in any case, in this House as in that of the House of Deputies, there are criminalist pressures on the one hand and populists on the other, which in fact destroy the possibilities of decrees and draft laws that we approve from time to time. So we're not going anywhere. We're all good at claiming our rights. These very days we have seen it in the debate on constitutional reform. We are all good at claiming that the rights of those who suffer obvious violations are being enforced. We are a little less good at claiming that everyone's rights are respected, and among them are also prisoners who, for whatever reason they are imprisoned, have the right to be treated according to the national and supranational regulatory provisions in force. In the event of a breach of those rights, there is no doubt as to the legality of the compensation action. That is why we will not give confidence, but we invite the Government to be more incisive, to have more courage. And if he brought here the courage of courage, the indult or the amnesty, we would be ready to give the confidence also to this government of which we do not now share the action. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u76	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, yesterday the President-in-Office of the Council made it clear to Italy that next year there will probably be no 80 euros for pensioners, as he promised in one of his many speeches in the newspapers. Last week, Minister Franceschini, in this very Chamber, explained the reasons for the cultural decree saying that it will open to private individuals because the State no longer has money for cultural goods, so it is right that there should also be private individuals helping the State in the conservation and enhancement of cultural goods. Dr. Cottarelli a few days ago, with an unwelcome exit to our President of the Council, said that we are spending too much because with the spending review, dear President Renzi, we are not there. A person with disabilities in Italy, from the data that have been provided to us, is perceived as a contribution about 16 euros per day: a misery! When it's okay because, in most cases, it doesn't even feel those. Italian entrepreneurs, those who do not commit suicide, and who manage to do so take their company abroad, out of the border, since at this moment in Italy you can not lower the tax pressure because, as someone says, the money unfortunately is not there. Let's not talk about exodus. A problem created by the Monti Government, with the agreement and the vote of the Democratic Party, with the vote of the then People of Freedoms, with the vote of those who had decided that there was a part of the Italians who had to be punished because there was no money. Why? Because there's no money, because there's no money left. Because the state's coffers are not in a position at the moment to respond to all the needs, to the requests for help, or indeed to the cry for help that comes from our fellow citizens. However, ladies and gentlemen - a little distracted because perhaps they are booking the ticket for the train, Madam President - there are 8 euros for the criminals and there are because Europe tells us: poor people, they are criminals but in Italy prison conditions are bad. I imagine, for example, those outsiders who are in prison in Italy and think about the prison conditions of their countries of origin: they will believe they are at the Hilton, not in prison! Plus, we give him 8 euros. So, EUR 240 a month, Mr President, to be in prison, considering that perhaps they have done more than Bertoldo. Then there are 42 euros a day for all those illegals, I stress the word clandestine, who enter Italy without being invited, without having applied. With our taxes, with our money, we give him 42 euros a day. More than 1,000 euros per month are taken home by the illegal non-EU lords who enter Italy! There are also facilities: it has been established to give facilities to those entrepreneurs who decide to hire those who have stayed in the patrie galere. For our young people who come out of schools and are at home desperate: nothing. For the fifty-year-olds who are at home desperate because they are out of the world of work: nothing. But in order to hire those who have been in prison, it is right to grant benefits to entrepreneurs who decide to re-introduce them into the workplace, because they are worthy citizens, emeritus, and so we must help them. Not to mention all the measures emptied prisons issued by the various governments (in the end Letta or Renzi little changes because the majority is practically the same, indeed it is the same). What is the current government doing right now? It comes to the attention of the Senate, after a passage to the Chambers, during a parliamentary debate on the constitutional revision (the priority of this Senate must be the constitutional revision, we have seen it in recent days when we asked to be able to deal intelligently - I say the term - concrete proposals, measures, decree-laws, with a parliamentary debate and the presentation of constructive and non-destructive amendments, with amendments with which we tried to give an idea or improve the measure), placing confidence. We come so far, seen and considered that we must go home, to the sea, to the mountains, or to visit the family: I brought the family to Rome, since you threatened us that we would stay here who knows until. [[Senator Albano's comments.]] Please, dear colleague, ask for the floor and take the microphone. So they ask us for trust, but how can we trust this government, Mr President? The government of tweets, the government of unfulfilled promises. I remember when the President of the Council, from the benches of the government here in the Senate - but I also listened to the debate in the Chamber of Deputies - made a number of promises. I listen to all the press conferences of our President-in-Office: I like to listen to them because they are nice. I therefore listen to all the promises and I hear that within this month we will accomplish this, within that day we will accomplish this other and so on. It is a whole series of promises, but they are not fulfilled. The government has as its priority constitutional reforms rather than citizens' problems: as I said earlier, we are asking to talk about citizens' problems. The priority should not be constitutional reforms, given that we have a thousand days of time, as promised by the Government. Therefore, the real problems of the country could have been dealt with quietly, accompanied by constitutional reforms. But no, the summer priority is constitutional reforms, but that's okay. Meanwhile, the government - whose President of the Council one day yes and the other also insults this Senate, elected by Italian citizens, unlike him, and if one day he forgets to do so, the next day he raises the dose - throws away the money, as in this case, for the criminals. Minister, those in prison are certainly not a shin of saints until proven guilty, and as a result he is a criminal. I will use even less of the time available to me, ladies and gentlemen, because we are in an explanation of vote. You ask us for trust, but it is difficult to be able to trust this Government, simply because as a League we have a philosophy, which we have always used. The Bible tells us that there were two brothers, Cain and Abel, one good and the other a little naughty. As a League we have decided, since the foundation of our movement, to stand on Abel's side. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This Government, however, does not: so we cannot trust Cain's friends. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u79	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, of course we will not vote for the government's confidence, but we regret not being able to vote for this measure, which we share in substance, partly because it contains certain aspects which we consider to be a necessary act, if I may say so. We also regret the fact that the organization of another type of calendar, during these weeks, would have given us the opportunity to discuss more seriously, with less haste and without having to resort to trust, some issues that we consider of great centrality in the democratic life of the country, that is, all that concerns our prison system and some aspects that concern the system of justice in Italy. We believe, as the Minister has said - on this point we have some points of agreement - that the aforementioned Torreggiani judgment is not the cause of the measures that have been taking for several months to this side, but that both are the effect of the situation. We also believe that it is really necessary not to intervene simply on the subject of prison overcrowding, which is one of the reasons why we constantly suffer condemnations from the European Court of Justice, but that the system of penalties in our country should be investigated in a more serious and comprehensive way, with all that concerns alternative penalties and the so-called model of detention. The latter is a gigantic problem in Italy: the typical phenomenon that is found is that of the so-called revolving doors, so once you enter prison it becomes much more likely to go back after you have gone out, rather than build a real rehabilitation path. It would therefore be appropriate to discuss these matters very seriously. However, unfortunately, the use of trust not only obliges us - of course - to vote against this measure (which, I repeat, contains aspects that we share), but above all it does not even give us the opportunity to better deal with certain issues. I would like to say this clearly to Mr Orlando: the criticism I make is exactly inverse to what other oppositions make. I do not think this is a masked indult, but, unfortunately, Minister. In fact, I think - I don't say it today, but for several months now - that in order to try to put in place a turning point regarding the issues of prisons in our country and also with respect to some salient aspects of the reform of justice in Italy, two things should be done on which I see instead a shyness of the Government, probably once again because this Government is inevitably influenced by political forces that are within it, and that on this ground have a very precise orientation for many years to this side. The same approach that you make this morning, not by chance to the Interior Minister Alfano improbable statements on the issue of immigration; we urgently asked a question because we read this morning disturbing statements by the Minister of the Interior, according to which immigrants arriving in Italy steal their place from the southern unemployed. In short, the worst rhetoric we have heard from the League over the past few years is used by Minister Alfano, Minister of the Republic. We would really like to know whether the President-in-Office of the Council shares this cultural approach of Alfano or, if he does not share it, we would very much like to know what the President of the Council thinks about these statements. This story makes the fact that on some basic elements, such as these on the rights of civilizations, which we are discussing today, this Government can do little, also because, unfortunately, the parliamentary majority that supports it has different points of view. For a long time now, I said, we have said that two things would be necessary. On the one hand, there is an urgent need for a measure of clemency, particularly with regard to all those prisoners who do not give rise to particular social alarm: the indult rather than the amnesty, measures which are otherwise required during these months even by the President of the Republic, as you know, but which this Parliament has not even managed to put into practice in part. Indeed, the measures that have been taken over the months (which we have voted on almost all, with the exception - inevitably - of those on which trust has been placed) have only minimally lowered the number of prisoners in Italian prisons, which still today is significantly higher than the number that the law should be saying. The law speaks of 47,000 prisoners and we are far from this number. We are not at 64,000 a few months ago, but unfortunately - I insist - we are very far from that number. So, first of all, it is a question of taking measures in some way capable of intervening on the issues of overcrowding and emergency prisons, which is indeed a great national shame for our country unfortunately for many years now. In fact, Minister, the quality of a Republic is first and foremost measured by how it treats the weakest; first by how it treats the prisoners; first by how it treats the toxic; first by how it treats the excluded. This is how the political and cultural quality of a Republic is measured. In addition to this, a number of structural measures should be put in place. Here too, I have not yet heard a mention and less than ever a clear political line on what have been the criminal laws of all these years. What does the Bossi-Fini government think? What does the government think of the devastating ex-Cirielli law? I am referring to that law which introduced the repeated relapse (in the first articles, however, it did the so-called save Previti, and then the repeated relapse). What does the government think about a strong initiative on drugs, even following the Constitutional Court's ruling? It's not clear to us yet. We think that criminal laws have been one of the ugliest pages of Italian politics over these years; we think it would take much more courage to repeal and remove them once and for all, given the damage they have caused to our country, and also seen, Minister - and I conclude on this point - the cultural damage they have done to Italy, also because those measures were put in place exactly in the same years when the laws were built ad personam. It has happened, therefore, Minister, that a very substantial part of the public opinion of this country has become the idea that in Italy justice was, let's say, particularly tolerant and particularly indulgent towards the powerful, until making the laws ad personam, and instead particularly bad and justiceist towards the excluded. I think that this should be completely questioned, and I hope that you will be able to do so. If it does, we will support it in its work of putting a serious and innovative idea of reform of justice on the ground over the coming months. It would be good to talk about it without the tight times and without the contingents typical of trust, which obviously forces us to express a vote of dissent, and it would be good if these issues finally became a serious element of reflection of this country. The country would really need it. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u82	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Madam President, I believe that at this stage we must say the few things that have escaped from the debate. In the meantime, a premise is necessary. This is an absolutely necessary measure, it has been said in compliance with the Torreggiani judgment, but I would say more. It is not only the European Convention on Human Rights, but it is our own Constitution which, in Article 13, but above all in Article 27, states that the penalty can never consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity. Therefore, we not only regulate, in cases which are exhaustive and of strict law, the hypotheses of deprivation of personal freedom, but the Constitution also regulates the methods of protective custody, as well as of condemnation, in the sense of preventing these methods of execution from leading to the offence and violation of the fundamental rights of the human person. The first point is this: the measure adopted by the Government, which we are going to vote on, is necessary because, in one way or another, it is part of the necessary obedience to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and of the qualification as interposed norms of the norms of European law, but above all the interpretation that the European Court gives to the international treaties, and in another way, it implements a principle contained in the Constitution. The second point is as follows: this measure has no impact on public order, in the sense that it is a compensation measure, resulting from the enforcement of convictions, as well as protective custody, that have been placed in violation of the principles contained in article three of the ECHR, as well as of our Constitution. Therefore, to publicise the idea by which we would be faced here with yet another empty prison means to say something that does not make any sense, precisely because of the lack of any effect of this measure on the condition of public order and the protection of the needs, precisely, concerning the protection of citizens from crime. If anything, there is a principle here that - I must say the truth - is extremely original and important. Since it is expressly a case of compensation, and since compensation presupposes an unlawful fact, we are not faced with compensation here, but it is the State which has the strength to state that protective custody and conviction measures that are carried out in discrepancies of principles that are inspired by the sense of humanity and the protection of the human person are unlawful; therefore, the State recognizes precisely the unlawful nature of certain behaviors. Inevitably, before this recognition, a rule of law can only pay the bill, to use an improper expression. Therefore, compensation for the damage and, at the same time, to operate a policy of the execution of the convictions, as well as of the precautionary safeguards, that is respectful of the fundamental principles of the human person. It must also be said that this measure is not isolated, but is part of an absolutely complex framework of measures which tend - on the side of recognising the obligation to compensate damages caused by prejudice to personal freedom, and all other measures, yes, worthy of being qualified as empty prisons - to solve a national emergency, namely an excess of imprisonment. Here the problem becomes complex, and I am perfectly aware of the impossibility of dealing with it in the few minutes reasonably attributed to those who intervene in the context of an explanation of vote, because it should be spoken for hours, but obviously this is not possible in this context. Precisely taking the cue of the need to regulate the prison situation and, above all, connecting me to one of the most critical norms, that is, to the one that establishes that the protective custody, even in the context of a prognostic judgment, cannot be ordered by the judge not only in cases in which the prognosi regards the imposition of a benefit such as that of the conditional suspension of the sentence, but also in the case in which the prognosi has at its object the impossibility to execute the sentence because of the benefit constituted by alternative measures to the detention, I emphasize that this is an absolutely necessary norm, because it fills an asymmetry of the system and an irrationality of the system. It is unthinkable that a protective custody may be arranged for persons who, if convicted, would not even go to prison: this was the irrationality of the system, precisely in the sense that, if at the condemnation we must inevitably recognize that scope of definitive and irrevocable recognition of criminal responsibility, it was at least irrational and illogical, and on the side of the principle of even unconstitutional reasonableness, to think that it could be deprived of the free staff in the precautionary phase who, if condemned, therefore if in the presence of a definitive title, could not even be placed in a condition of imprisonment. The surgery here was absolutely urgent. If the law prohibits the imprisonment of a convicted person, then of a person whose liability is definitively recognized, it was absolutely unthinkable that, in the same legal position, this same person could be deprived of personal freedom in the precautionary phase, therefore even when his responsibility had not been established. For these reasons and for all the others that I could say, but that they are not sufficient in relation to the limited scope of an explanation of vote, which merely highlights the most obvious and most striking circumstances under which a Group decides to show its adherence to a legislative measure, I would like to declare the vote in favour of the New Right Centre. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Sangalli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u85	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking in an explanation of vote about a bathing confidence. We have reached a seaside trust because it imposes on this measure to allow the senators of the majority to go to the sea. Why else? President, wasn't our calendar supposed to be here until midnight? Didn't our calendar expect us to stay here and work on Sundays? We of the 5 Star Movement have equipped ourselves for this. No, it wasn't: this morning the trolleys were already prepared to leave, because a seaside trust intervened. Moreover, this confidence intervenes after the measure had been amended in the Justice Commission, so it had been modified by the Senate, and this says a lot about the respect that the Government has for the work of Parliament. There would have been technical times for an approval of this decree-law also accepting the only amendment that had been converted and transposed by the Senate Justice Commission. The decree-law under consideration, as has been mentioned by several colleagues, but it is worth remembering, is the fifth adult in a few months; in fact, the 10% penalty discount of the remaining penalty what is, if not an indult? The worst, however, is that it is the symbol of a failure that begins from afar, from the previous legislatures - I have already said, but I will repeat it - from the announcement of Minister Alfano even in 2010, supported by the then President of the Council Silvio Berlusconi, according to which a prison plan for the creation of 14,000 new posts - held in four years would have been provided (four years ago) for the creation of 14,000 new posts. Obviously it was not done, but thanks to his inability the Minister Alfano was promoted to Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What hurts us the most, however, is that we presented an alternative prison plan, a 5 Star Movement prison plan, of which we are proud. It was deliberately ignored, yet it was reasonable, cheap, fast and complete. However, the most serious thing from my point of view is that it has established itself in the country, thanks to many measures such as this, the principle that there is no longer any certainty of punishment. I ask myself and ask you why prisons on the islands have never been reopened (I think, for example, of Pianosa and Asinara, but not only). Perhaps because the closure of prisons on the islands was one of the demands in the State-Mafia negotiation? Why do we not hold Parliament, this House, to sign the cooperation agreements, which must be effective and not just formal, with the countries of origin of the prisoners? For this topic, for the problem of overpopulation of prisons, we could stay here until midnight and also on Sundays and on continuous hours. In fact, dealing with the problem of overcrowding in prisons is necessary, but it must be done structurally, rather than dedicating our time to a constitutional reform based on lies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me say something about this, because spending the time of a branch of Parliament on unnecessary and harmful reform, which is also based on a lie, is something to be told to the Italians. In the same way, it must be made known to the Italians that the forced steps to achieve a constitutional reform in a few days are necessary because the first votes must arrive before it is understood by the Italians. In fact, if this constitutional reform were understood by the Italians, you could no longer have this Parliament approve it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why does it have to be understood by the Italians? Because Italians are still convinced, thanks to the tweets of the President of the Council, that you want to overcome the perfect bicameralism through the overcoming of the Senate and therefore its abolition, the same one you opposed, because the only ones voting for the abolition of the Senate were the 5 Star Movement and the opposition forces. As a lie - also in this case the tweet of the President of the Council must be quoted, and it has never been denied - it has been said that the overcoming of the Senate would have saved the country a billion euros of costs [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , ignoring that this institution has a budget cost of EUR 500 million. This is a cost that will not be spared at all at the pockets of the Italians, for the simple fact that it is repealed not this institution, but the election of the senators of the Republic. The Senate remains one and the same, so the expense will be essentially the same. Perhaps a few tens of millions will be saved, and I will be told that this is a significant saving given the fact that we are talking about the costs of politics and, therefore, the costs of caste. But a few dozen million is just one fortieth of the gift that was made by the Democratic Party and the majority forces. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] to slot machine operators only a few months ago, with a tomb condon of two billion euros [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and represent a thousandth of the F35 program. And we barter a substantial, important slice of democracy in this country to save a thousandth of the F35 program. The arrogance and the lie: those who oppose this reform are tied to the armchair. If, however, we go to read the parliamentary Reports - who has time, desire and dedication - we see that the majority voted against all the amendments proposing a cost reduction; it voted against all the amendments for a reduction in the number of Members and voted against the repeal of this House. Then there is no intention of proceeding with a constitutional reform to reduce the costs of politics. On the contrary - it is the last lie, because it is a lie also what is not said - what is in return in the so-called Nazarene Pact, which we know is politically bringing to the majority a significant amount of consensus? To Forza Italia, who has entered into an indissoluble bond on this pact, we do not know what has been guaranteed. We know, however, that against the signatures of all of you, Senators of the Democratic Party, who had argued that the reform of 416-ter provided for the maintenance of the sentence from 7 to 12 years, this Government imposed the reduction of the sentence by 40%. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we know in the future that this specific scandalous reduction of the sentence, of the political-mafia electoral exchange, is also part of the Nazarene Pact, you will respond to your conscience and you will have to justify it to your children, as we are talking about constitutional reforms. I'm going to conclude. Constitutional reform heavily alters the weight and counterweight ratio of our Constitution and the system of guarantees, and that is the most worrying element. With reference to the decree, the situation is very simple. We are convinced that the Government and this majority do not want to deal with and solve the problem, but simply put a piece in it. And we're not in this game. (Loud, prolonged [[Applause from the M5S Group.Many congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u88	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, I do not want to bore you by repeating all the criticisms of the various rules of the converted decree-law that have been put forward by the senators not only of the opposition, but also of the majority. And perhaps, in this respect, you can also benefit from reading the Commission's Reports, where, in a very clear way, various provisions have been stigmatized, in the presence of the Undersecretary at his Dicastery. I note, with the exception of what I shall say shortly, that the Government has intended to put its trust in the text approved by the House of Deputies, in violation of a practice which has been in power throughout the previous parliamentary term in this House. Nevertheless, Minister, I also take note of the recognition of the goodness of the change made in the Senate Justice Commission and its commitment to rapidly amend this rule. However, I represent to you that, since reference is made to the magistrates appointed on 20 February 2014, perhaps it would be appropriate to remember also that these magistrates will be assigned to the appointment in the next month of September and that, consequently, or you will decide to operate on the decrees that are still under discussion in the Senate of the Republic, that is, your commitment is bound not to be followed by the facts. This with a further consequence that I obviously do not wish you and I do not wish the country; in the event that these magistrates, for matters of experience considered by everyone unsuitable for those very delicate functions that would have to carry out, should they make mistakes, such errors, Minister, would inevitably fall back in his political responsibility. I would therefore like to focus very quickly on the text. In the original decree-law you had dismissed a rule by which you entrusted to the discretion of the judge the issue of protective custody with reference to an advance prognosis with respect to the sentence in concrete. From my personal point of view, this was, by one verse, a gamble and, on the other hand, a road of difficult percorsibility. On this point too, Minister, a change has been made which we would have liked to have discussed in the Senate Chamber. You see, Minister, when exceptions are made, as the House intended, a series of criticisms is opened up: why is there no reference to Article 416-b, the political-mafia exchange vote, in the exceptions provided for in the Chamber? And are there also crimes such as self-money laundering, robbery, simple extortion and corruption? Perhaps, Minister, it would be appropriate for you in your responsibility to pay more attention to the work of Parliament and, through your representatives, to make clear what your understanding is and what policy you intend to follow. Let us be quite frank, Minister, that you, by placing trust on the text of the House, slap the Senate of the Republic. It is an even more sound slap when she recognizes the rightness of the change made by the Senate because this makes us really incomprehensible, in the face of a single modification and the possibility of making a very quick shuttle with the House, the reason why this change cannot be accepted with the insertion to the Chamber of Trust on the text voted by the Senate. Minister, it is a slap that is repeated a short time after another slap that the Government intended to give to the Senate when it put back in the decree-law on public administration the rule of direct access in the judiciary, which had been rejected by this House a year ago by an overwhelming majority. Not only did he consider putting that rule, but he also felt that he would allow a further one in the Commission's text on the three-point increase in the ranking of the competition in the judiciary, which would inevitably mean that a number of more deserving young people could not have access to the world of work for a whole corporate issue, specifically concerning internships. I imagined, Minister, that that rule was born in Parliament, but today, reading the interview of the President of the Justice Commission of the House on...The Journal, I discovered that it was wanted by the Government and that consequently President Ferranti simply did not stop it. If it is true what President Ferranti says and that the Government had supported the amendment on the supervisory judges, Minister, it must allow me to make a much more general criticism. I have the impression that, if everything I have said is true, your policy is flattened on the unionism of the magistrates. If then the trade unionists are inside his Dicastery or in Parliament, it doesn't matter. We had the hope that with his advent to the Ministry of Justice we could change towards the Ministry, as President Renzi says. We note, alas, that this verse has not changed and there is no dissonance between the first and the present. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] The politics of his party has always been flattened on that of the National Association of Judges and, alas, these two norms to which we have previously referred show unequivocally that this flattening continues. You see, Minister, President Renzi and you have announced a reform of justice. I went to see the 12 points it would consist of: but do you really think that you are changing towards? In reading those 12 points on justice I find nothing, for example, on a problem repeatedly posed by the Head of State and on which you too, before being Minister, intervened with the guarantee that we all recognize them, that is, telephone interceptions. In what way and in what terms do you then want to intervene on the civil liability of the magistrates? This is a measure, be careful, which you have blocked in the Commission, announcing a government initiative in September. I would like to understand, in other words, whether this reform of justice that you imagine you can do will or will not touch the structure of the judiciary, that current membership to which President Renzi also referred. With this reform of justice we will have the possibility not to achieve, but to pursue in a more serious way the dream of having finally in all the trials - without the need to wait for that appeal, than those of first instance - just judges, third and neutral? Will we have the opportunity, Minister, to have a clear separation between judges and politics? 12:59 p.m. (Follow PALMA). And what are you going to do, Minister, with regard to the provision concerning the judiciary and politics, which here in the Senate has been approved by an overwhelming majority, transmitted six months ago to the House, where has it been stationary since then? The same is true of torture, in which the Chamber's Justice Committee felt that it was urging that of the Senate, but at the time when that measure voted by the Senate arrived there, it also remained firm. Words, Minister, don't need much. What is needed is to seriously imagine objectives and achieve them. And if there will be, on the part of his Government, the real will to change towards even with reference to justice, we at Forza Italia will be available to confront, to a fair confrontation, evidently in the diversity of our positions. I hope that she will have the strength to carry forward this reform of justice, on which she has often spoken in tones and words that are not far from ours. Pending this we take note of your measures, which - as you have been told - are wrong measures, are flattened measures on the National Association of Judges and are trade union measures (where the trade unionist is located, you will be looking for him). That is why I am announcing the contrary vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u91	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure. In the meantime, I believe that it is necessary to acknowledge the Minister of the great work he has done since his installation and has been charged with covering that Dicastery which he now covers, in a very active and collaborative manner. However, I believe that it is also absolutely necessary and appropriate to remember, always out of duty of truth and to respond to those who today have expressed disappointment and opposition to the measure that we are going to vote on, that the first measure that has been adopted in the matter of early liberations in Italy was voted by one of the Berlusconi Governments, with the vote and support of the League, that today criticizes and scandalizes for the approval of a measure that - as has already been pointed out by my colleague D'Ascola - represents a strong signal of legal civilization and that essentially unites with the constitutional dictation and the precepts that have been promulgated by the European Court of Human Rights. It is true that we have repeatedly said, and I have said several times myself, that we have had to deal with the problems of prison overcrowding, the problems of the use of precautionary imprisonment and others with a number of different measures; this has been highlighted by many colleagues who have spoken before me. Perhaps we could have dealt with them in a more systemic and complete way. But the truth is that we have had to deal with a number of emergencies, which forced us to adopt various measures, which, including today's one, have had the undeniable merit of giving serious and concrete answers, which have long been hoped for, to the problems I have mentioned earlier. Also the decree-law that we are going to convert is to be framed in this perspective and as such is worthy of great attention and sharing. Of course, some issues could have been deepened and the solutions found could have been better. However, we note that all the measures are perfect, and this, as I said, responds to the needs already expressed. But what we have the certainty of is that the commitments that have been made today by the Minister to remedy the critical issues that have been highlighted will certainly be honored, following that path that, as I said, was introduced by Minister Orlando from the time of his installation. It will probably also be able to do so in the context of the organic reform of justice. I am not as pessimistic as Mr Palma who preceded me. I believe that the criticalities of the measure, if faced organically with the dialogue and the confrontation we have become accustomed to, in a constructive dialectic with the Government also in the context of the discussion in the Commission, can be resolved honorably with an organic reform. And we are sure that this will happen at the resumption of our work after the summer break. I just add one more consideration. I have very much shared the Minister's reasoning today about raising the age from 21 to 25 years for child treatment even to those who have passed the age. I believe that this can be an extremely virtuous path. Far from thinking that the cohabitation of an adult with a minor and therefore the presence of an adult person among the children - precisely for our juvenile system, absolutely virtuous and whose virtuosity is universally recognized being, I repeat, extremely good - can constitute an element of criticality and can bring evil instead of good, I believe that such cohabitation can instead allow children to understand, with the help of adult people who have taken note of the disvalue of the actions carried out, the seriousness of what they have done; on the contrary, I believe that this closeness can serve to improve even more, within the educational system provided for by our juvenile law, the living conditions within the juvenile prisons. For this reason I confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour, as I am sure that when we return we will be able to put our hands on the justice system with the help of all political forces because on these issues, objectively, there is a need for a confrontation with all political forces. Therefore, at the resumption of our work we will certainly be able to resume and resolve those critical issues that the measure, which appears necessary and due, presents. We shall therefore vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u92	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u93	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1579, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 92 of 26 June 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I have received several requests for anticipation of the vote that I did not accept to put everyone in the same conditions. [[Applause.]] I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Jurlar is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Iurlaro. DI GIORGI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Filippi, Fincchiarchino, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Finppi, Fincchiarino, Fingori, Fingori, Fingoriziori, Forni, Frangori, Frangori Senators say no: Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bisinella, Bocchino, Bruno Campanella, Candiani, Carraro, Centinario, Cervellini, Comaroli, Crosio De Cristofaro, De Petris, Divina Floris Galimberti, Giro Malan, Messina, Munerato, Mussini Orellana Palma, Pelino, Pepe, Petraglia Razzi, Rizzotti, Romani Maurizio Serafini, Stefani Tosato Volpi Zin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. MARTON (M5S). A little attention, Senator Secretary! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, please, you are present, but you are absent; you have thus given an evident sign of your presence. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). It is our right to be present and not to vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let us not disturb the work of the Secretary Senators who must proceed with the calculation of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1579, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 92 of 26 June 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 202 Senators voting 201 Majority 101 Favorables 162 Contrars 39]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 92 are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u94	I communicate that the requested number of senators has received the request, pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, of remission to the Shareholders' Meeting of the favourable opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of the Decree-Law 24 June 2014, n. 90, in the matter of public administration. Therefore, the agenda for the sitting of Monday, 4 August, at 2 p.m., is supplemented by the resolution of the Assembly on that opinion, followed by the discussion of the constitutional bill. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u97	Montevecchi (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, is this the end-of-session speech I requested yesterday? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Montevecchi, since he was the subject of the anniversary of the massacre in Bologna that is today, we felt that it was more appropriate for you to intervene in today's session. If you want to give up intervention... Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, this morning there was a too fleeting commemoration of the massacre in Bologna on 2 August 1980. I would like to use these few minutes to remember something that was not remembered during the commemoration which, I repeat, was very fleeting. I would like to remind you that the massacre of Bologna is one of the many massacres that still remain unpunished in the history of our Republic. After 34 years all of us Italian citizens - not only from Bologna, to whom at 10.25 am I joined even if I could not attend the commemoration in Piazzale Medaglie d'oro like every year - we are still waiting for answers. I hope the day will come when, in this Republic, there will again be democracy and an honest and virtuous ruling class that will have the courage to give us all citizens the answers we expect, not only about the massacre of Bologna, but also the many massacres that have struck the history of our country and that still remain unpunished. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u100	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 August 1980 at 10.25 a.m., by fascist hands, armed by still dark senders with the aim of destabilising the democratic order and with complicity and connivances never completely clarified, was staged one of the most disturbing episodes in the Italian history of the twentieth century. At 10.25 a.m. at Bologna railway station a strong explosion resulted in 85 deaths, 218 injuries and a deep wound to democratic Italy. It was one of the most deadly blows of the so-called strategy of tension, one of the darkest moments of what our colleague Sergio Zavoli called "Night of the Republic." Today, as every August 2nd, 24 years ago, the population of Bologna gathered around the family of the victims in one of the most heartfelt and moving squares in which one can participate. A concussion that is not only compassionate closeness to the pain of the surviving victims and family members, but rather a common emotion of reason and feelings for a history, that of Italian democracy, that dark powers animated by the will of an authoritarian turning point have tried in vain to kill. Instead, from that pain, from the dismayed one, our democracy has been able to find the strength to restore its primacy over violence and terrorism. This year the celebration was accompanied by two positive news: the first is the archiving by the Bologna Public Prosecutor of the so-called Palestinian track. The theorem of the responsibilities of the Popular Front for the liberation of Palestine in the attack on revenge against the lack of respect for a dark agreement with the Italian State and the complicity of the German Red terrorists, Kram and Frohlich, had been strongly launched by the well-discussed Mitrokhin Parliamentary Commission. Today we have the confirmation that that track was inconsistent and that the condemnations of the material executors of the massacre of Bologna must be considered a truth procedurally established, whose only limit is not to have also concerned the senders, still unknown, of the massacre. The other good news is the approval by the Justice Commission of the House, in recent days, of the proposal of law n. 559 on the introduction into the penal code of the crime of depiracy and procedural pollution, which has as first signatory Paolo Bolognesi, the president of the Family Association of the victims of the massacre of 2 August, and which should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies shortly. Already in September that text will arrive here in the Senate, where a similar bill has been filed since last year. Well, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the best way we have to honour the victims and our common memory, but above all to put a strong obstacle to our country's failure to relive such dark and dramatic moments, is to proceed rapidly with the timetable in the Commission and then in the House of that bill, as soon as it has arrived from the Chamber of Deputies. The adoption of a rule on the misdirection is a strong and clear signal that the Italian Parliament builds a new embankment to the repetition of that night of violence and mysteries that saw among its protagonists also deviant pieces of our State. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senators Giovanardi and Mussini indicate that they want to intervene]] Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Senator Rossi was there!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u101	I am sorry, but the rule is that requests for late-session interventions must be anticipated. [[Comments of Senators Giovanardi, Ghedini and Mussini]] I repeat, requests for the end of the sitting, in accordance with the rule that I am implementing, must be submitted in advance. We cannot start an unplanned debate at the end of the sitting. It does not seem right for those who are not present. We can do that when the conditions are there.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-298.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, August 4, at 2 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.09 p.m.
