ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting of 9 October 2014 the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 8 October 2014 were not approved. Therefore, before reading the minutes of the 9 October afternoon sitting, the minutes of the 8 October afternoon sitting should be approved. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the 8 October afternoon sitting are hereby approved. The Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 October will be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, a moment of attention. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] On Thursday night, October 9, 2014, a very strong storm hit the territory of Genoa, causing a real environmental disaster. Three streams, the Bisagno, the Rio Fereggiano and the Sturla are exonerated: cars were dragged away by the water, half of the city remained in the dark for the sudden blackout and, unfortunately, a 57-year-old man lost his life. Once again, over a few years, an exceptional atmospheric event has wounded the Ligurian capital. It was November 4, 2011 when the fury of the waters of the three exondated streams also caused death and devastation on that occasion, taking away six human lives. Today, as then, the prompt intervention of the many rescuers was fundamental: Forces of order, civil protection workers, voluntary citizens and young people who, like real mud angels, with great commitment and generosity have worked to limit the effects of the disaster and soothe the suffering of the population. By now more and more natural disasters such as floods, air trumpets, water bombs, lightning storms hit Italy, disrupting people's lives and causing very serious and lasting consequences on devastated territories. The effects of these disasters are aggravated by carelessness and human irresponsibility. It is necessary at these moments to deal with the emergency and, in a joint effort, to ensure the closeness of the institutions to the affected populations and to ensure their necessary assistance. However, it is necessary to rethink also the hydrogeological management of the territory through the prevention, the monitoring of the urban and agricultural territory, the attention to the water and the rivers, the realization of the appropriate infrastructures. In the face of such destructive phenomena we can no longer remain inert and weep for what has not been done in time. Words must be followed by appropriate actions and behavior. We owe it to Genoa, a city torn apart and again humiliated; we owe it to its people, dramatically deprived of their daily environment. The Senate Assembly, joining the pain of the entire city, expresses deep sorrow and emotional participation. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u7	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators of the Democratic Party share his words about the city of Genoa and the disaster that hit it and are close to the city, to the Genoese, to the Genoese hinterland, just as they are also close to the city of Parma, which has also had a lot to suffer for the bad weather, to the city of Alexandria, which has also suffered a lot in recent days for the bad weather, and to the provinces of the whole of Lombardy and Veneto. President, you said everything there was to say. I would just like to add to your words that it is necessary for the Government to come very quickly to Parliament to report on the condition of the areas that have been hit so hard and on the measures it intends to take to meet the hardships of the population and restore a condition of livability. Mr President, we have a huge problem, an Italian problem. One of the dramatic Italian requirements is represented - as you have already mentioned - by the hydrogeological failure, to which we must add substantial deficiencies in urban maintenance. We have all seen how ever more frequent and unpredictable atmospheric phenomena can create in our urban centers, in the hinterland, in the cities, situations of enormous difficulty until we reach the sacrifice of human lives. Unfortunately, a long-standing interweaving of atmospheric phenomena and carelessness adds a negative one of inadequate legislation and very slow case law. This must also be associated with the attitude of our business system, which deals with public works, to have - as we are all seeing - legal offices with a greater consistency than that of technical offices. All this produces long periods which, as in the case of Genoa, can have tragic effects. President, Italy is a very generous country and this is demonstrated by the thousands of young people who are today shoveling mud in Genoa and in the other affected cities. The State must also take account of this generosity and contribute how it can, but muster and quickly, heal the wounds. So again, I ask you to be an interpreter with the Government of the need to come to the Senate as soon as possible not only to report but also to listen to the voice of the senators who are here to represent their territories. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in associating us with your words expressing solidarity with the cities affected by the flood and with the victims, I would like briefly to make some reflections and make some requests. We of course agree that the government is coming to this House to report, but I believe that we also need to talk to each other about some issues that may not be very pleasant. Now, every fifteen days a tragedy takes place (for example, that of Genoa, it happened just fifteen days after that of Gargano) and we could make an exterminated list. By now our country is subject daily to those that are no longer simply extreme events, but are becoming everyday. It is the whole of the consequences of climate change, abuse and violence constantly perpetrated against the territory of our country: I am talking about abusiveness, wild cementification and carelessness. But we must also tell ourselves once and for all - and I address President Zanda - some truths. Meanwhile, the two billion that we are now talking about - perhaps the government should come to the Senate to report on this - are not additional resources, but are always the same resources that we discussed in the law of stability. Today we need to do something else; and I remember today that we are discussing the DEF Update Note. Our country must understand once and for all that the defense of our territory and, therefore, the updating of the works is an absolute priority. I remember that many of the works that fall into the two billion are inadequate today, having been conceived many years ago and therefore inadequate to deal with the real problem. I agree that the government is coming here to report, but - in my opinion - it must once and for all present a detailed plan of interventions and, above all, of the resources to be used. Of course, there are the blocks and the bureaucracy, but I think the first question to be addressed is whether the government finally intends to give life once and for all to the greatest work - this yes a great work - for the salvation of our country, which is the putting in safety of the soil against the hydrogeological disaster. That is, I think it could really be a turning point, so that we don't have to count victims, deaths and tragedies every fifteen days. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u13	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, once again we are talking about a disastrous situation and crying after very serious events. There are a number of issues that have been addressed several times: every time we hear about climate change and a territory that has been mistreated, not in recent years, but following a series of behaviors, whose responsibility obviously cannot be in the hands of a few people: for decades and decades it has been a national sport to mistreat the territory, to cement, to build in the riverbed, without taking into account the minimum measures of caution. Today the time has come to radically change the page: we need to work on serious strategies for land control and soil protection. Not only do we need infrastructure that is no longer procrastinable, but we also need to radically change behaviour. In fact, individual behaviors, but also collective behaviors, need to be changed. It is necessary to adapt the public system's responses, freeing it from delays, bureaucratic delays, conflicts of competence and a completely confused, confusing and inefficient judicial system. In one word, it is necessary to take the cue from disastrous and mourning events such as these to radically change the page. I believe that the government should come and report to the Senate on what has been done, but above all on the perspective of the things to be done, which must be achieved in a reasonable time. Beyond the defence of the soil, the necessary protection and the protection of human life, beyond the duty of safeguarding the economic interest of the enterprises and of all the socialities involved, it must be considered that, at a time when the country is absolutely blocked by the lengths and difficulties of our productive system, open a thousand and a thousand yards, throughout the country, for this great work of restoration and restoration of the country - let me use this term - bringing it back to the integrity to which we were used and which has been delivered to us by previous generations, can represent the real great public work that the country needs, beyond the ambition of someone. My words do not simply want to be a wish: we have important instruments and legislative paths in place, starting with the decree-law so-called unblocks Italy, which is being processed by the competent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies and which will then be examined by the Senate, up to the law of stability. The Government also has extraordinary instruments: for example, a unit of mission was set up in the Presidency of the Council in the field of hydrogeological failure. We must confront ourselves on these issues, but the truth is that neither the people, nor our territory, nor all of us, for our own dignity, can and must procrastinate the solution of problems. The time has come not only to deal with the problems, but above all to solve them. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u16	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems that, dramatically, our country is the country of avoidable tragedies. Those who, like me, come from the mountains know very well what the function of prevention is. The water, alas, goes down physically. Even the mountains follow the same path if there are no people who maintain the environment, they rule the waters, in essence, if we can not make people live even in territories where life is very difficult compared to the centers of the valley. The relationship between the costs that a community faces, considering those for prevention and those for subsequent humanitarian interventions, is one to seven, and this already tells us how important it would be, as well as useful and convenient, to operate in a prevention regime. We suggest to the Government a first intervention, that is to guarantee to all the peripheral communities minimum services that allow people to live still in harsh environments to protect the territory; Secondly, we invite the Renzi Government not to play on security. There are urgent procedures, but we are systematically in times of neglect, fearing obstacles, bureaucracy and impediments. The Renzi Government, which was born to overcome these realities, does these few things, overcomes these absurd laws by now. In these cases the controversy is not necessary and it is not even appropriate. We of the Northern League would like to bring to the people of Genoa and to all of Liguria our closeness and solidarity precisely because it seems that it is systematically affected by these avoidable and dramatic tragedies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u19	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Group of Forza Italia expresses solidarity and closeness to the people affected by the serious problems of ecological disasters, not only in Genoa, but in Parma and others. However, Mr President and my fellow Members, the one in Genoa was a disaster announced and I hope that the Government will report certain elements in this House. I cannot forget what happened three years ago (just three years ago). We all knew that for a certain period there had been no possibility to carry out interventions that had been announced; then the established blockade of administrative justice, revoked by the TAR of Lazio, neither we nor the affected populations know why they were again exposed to a risk that is inherent in the way in which the Bisagno and the other two torrents have the possibility of exonding. For years the city of Genoa has been built along a slope where there are palaces that seem almost to fall; this is a problem that also concerns Naples and many other Italian cities, but there is a coincidence between that conformation of the city and the presence of the two main torrents that should have involved a need of expense to avoid what happened. Three years ago people died. Deputy Minister Morando will remember those who died because some kind of chasm was created under a cellar of a palace and that a prison police officer, when taking the various bodies, also found that of his wife. However, we cannot always delegate to the citizens the courage, the strength to respond, on the one hand, at the moment of necessity, of the avalanche and, on the other hand, with the young people who are continuing to shovel. This may only be a moment of solidarity, but it has no effect on the measures to be taken. Before deciding how much money to make available, let us verify what works are needed to ensure that those facts do not occur again. The situation is such that with another wave of torrential rain you will find yourself in the same conditions, regardless of whether the hives are clean or not clean. It is not just a problem of hives, but of a structure that needs to be rethought. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u22	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have lived in Genoa firsthand, as I have experienced the floods of our city since 1970. I do not accept the simplification and mystification of the facts that has been done in these days to self-fulfill, to blame others and not to take the political responsibilities that exist. I am seriously offended, all the Genoese are, for the discharge of the barrel that is being carried out at this moment in the city: to blame the judiciary, the TAR, the Court of Auditors is the most wrong, also because we are talking about things that have happened in the last two years. I read you part of the report of a bill, and then I'll tell you when it goes back: It is in fact in addition to the basin of the river Bisagno and its terminal shaft channeled and covered whose section is notoriously insufficient, of the entire complex system of rivi and torrents, covered and discovered, that affect the urban areas of Genoa. The combined effects of the rain regime, which, especially in the autumn, sometimes appear with such intensity as to exceed 100 millimeters in an hour, is more or less the same as today - the morphology of the basins, not very extensive, but with steep slopes, and formed in large part by urbanized surfaces, and the profile of the hives, which quickly passes from the strong slopes of the mountain sections to the very modest ones of the terminal shaft. However, the limited financial resources have so far prevented decisive interventions, such as those of Bisagno, which would eliminate the constant and serious danger throughout the urban area. It is clear that, in order to realize all the necessary works to ensure the defense of the city of Genoa from the danger of floods, a special contribution must be made to the Municipality of Genoa of at least 450 billion divided in the financial years 1988, 1989, and 1990 in order to solve the problems, as well as the Bisagno, of the Leiro, Chiaravagna, Polcevera streams and their turnouts. This bill, signed by Biondi, Cerofolini and Sanguineti, dates back to 1988. Afterwards the excavation was opened to be the scalmator of the Bisagno; 800 meters of the scalmator that went from the sea to the hinterland putting in a milling mill that could only go forward. Tangentopoli stopped those works, but those who had been arrested at that time were acquitted. The Municipality of Genoa was sentenced to pay 9 billion lire to the company that had the contract of the works. Then they did an extraordinary thing: instead of going ahead with the mill, they spent billions to disassemble it and take it away! This is what happened in Genoa! There are responsibilities and the dumping of these days that is being sold to the media is a political responsibility of the last thirty years! All the political classes in our city and region are responsible and all the more so those who are still there today! It is a shame that you do not tell the truth about what happens in Genoa, but I am sure it will come out! The 35 million are crumbs to solve the flood problems on Bisagno and beyond. Those 35 million expect an area that is after Brignole station, but the flood came before Brignole station. We're telling all Italians about the big bullshit to defend a political class! I am convinced that the Genoese and Genoese policy are not able to deal with these problems. A Commissioner in Genoa is appointed to solve these problems, because in thirty years we have not been able. As for forty years you have not even doubled the Andora route, and in fact you have seen the derailment of the train. Minister Lupi has come to promise the money to move forward, but these resources are nowhere to be seen. The same goes for Genoa-Milan, which was to be the first fast route of Italy, but still there is, indeed it is still. Then it is said that ours is a Region that hasn't counted for thirty years and is not able to assert its reasons. This I wanted to say, and I ask everyone to reflect and not accept that the stories that have been told in these days to self-assemble are told.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u23	We greet the students, the students and the professors of the Institute including "Guglielmo Marconi" of Terni who follow our works [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u26	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, it was September 2013 when we discussed motions on hydrogeological failure, just over a year ago. We in the 5 Star Movement filed a motion. It was judged a good motion, well written, with good commitments to the government, so much so that the same gave a favourable opinion on that motion. But, by chance, PD and PdL voted against. That's what I'm saying so whoever's out there knows and remembers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, what Senator Maurizio Rossi has said now is true: the Government continues to tell lies, nonsense, when it comes to telling us that what happened happened because the works are blocked by the TAR. Senator Maurizio Rossi said well, we talked about it today in 13a Commission: The intervention blocked by the TAR concerns the downstream part of the railway while the flooding occurred upstream. The government should think about these things, because if the government doesn't study anymore we're bad, very bad, because it means the government talks without knowing the projects it's talking about! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It would be time for the government to start studying too! We must also remember other important measures. There is a royal decree of 1904 - we said it in September and we repeat it now (he is just over 100 years old this decree) - which provided for the hydraulic constraint or non-building in the space of 10 meters from the shore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What has happened in Italy over the last 110 years? Now we complain about what happens, but when three years ago there was the flood, the state went to clean the canals, the rigagnoli, the rivers and the streams where debris had accumulated? The competence, although when you talk about it always seems confused, is of the civil genius, that is of the State, called to carry out ordinary maintenance. Where's the state? Why doesn't he intervene? Why do you make regulatory plans by cementing everything? Why are we so far from a normal thought? Why do we always have to shout to make people listen to what should be normal? When are we gonna start doing this? We have passed a law establishing the Basin Authorities, Law No. 183 of 1989. We had to wait for 1998, almost 10 years, and the tragedy of Sarno. Do you remember Sarno? 160 dead, 136 of them in the hamlet of Episcopio di Sarno, where they had built where they did not have to. It took us ten years to start the Basin Authorities: are we kidding? This is absurd, it is the total inertia of politics. We wait for disasters to do something. We have the plans of the Basin Authorities but since the law is not very clear the interventions are not compatible with each other. You know that? Why don't you go study it? And instead of talking about risky areas, we're talking about critical areas because it's the only way to make things that aren't homogeneous. Gentlemen, we talk, talk and talk, but if we don't start maintenance again, at least a simple maintenance, we don't start demolishing what was illegally built in the vicinity of the rivers, we'll never get out of it. Have the courage to talk to your mayors and say these things, okay? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u29	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the situation in Genoa has certainly focused attention but, as my Parent Company has said, there are other areas that have suffered enormous damage and are in a very difficult situation. It's my turn, because of my origins, to remember the situation that struck Parma and Parmense. A situation that led yesterday also to the flooding of a part of the city, which led to the evacuation of a large private hospital structure and the evacuation of the largest residential structure for the elderly; which blocked the traffic and interrupted the telephone lines and created in the mountains, especially at this stage, in the Municipality of Corniglio, enormous difficulties, creating situations of great discomfort for what also concerns the productive activities and salumifici of that area and the whole area of our Apennines. It is an extremely delicate situation, which comes from two years of continuous weather events that have affected landslides, road structures, the stability of the land and many houses that have been evacuated and that have collapsed. This situation yesterday also extended dramatically to the Municipality of Calestano. There is an overall situation of real national emergency in that territory. There is an objective emergency that, fortunately, did not lead to victims, but that recalls the whole theme of environmental disaster and the need for radical interventions from this point of view and also requires very precise, economically adequate interventions, so that there can be answers to the needs of families who have lost their homes, of companies that have lost their structures, of the community as a whole. From this point of view also the opportunity of the law of stability, despite the enormous difficulties before us, must be used to find extraordinary appropriations for these interventions. These are in fact interventions that, if they are not timely, risk depressing these areas further, which instead need a strong revival; and this revival can only pass, in order to motivate the populations, also through a significant presence of the State as well as of the Regions. At a more general level, I do not want to enter into the localistic polemics that have emerged in many of the speeches. The warning of President Napolitano, for which the problem in Italy is to look forward, to find the real way of concrete intervention in terms of environmental recovery and measures against territorial degradation, taking into account certainly the evolution of the climate system, but also the delays and trying to have very efficient and very concrete measures on this level. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u30	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Wednesday 15 October, at 1 p.m. for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The call will start with the senators. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u31	The President-in-Office of the Council, having examined the events in this House at its meetings on 8 October, took the following decisions: He regretted what Senator Palma had to say about the Presidency. Deliberates the sanction of censorship for Senators Airola, Blondo, Buccarella, Falanga, Giarrusso, Montevecchi, Puglia and Santangelo. It resolves the sanctions of censorship and of the ban to participate in the proceedings of the Assembly against Senators Petrocelli and Centinario respectively for one day of sitting and for five days of sitting from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u34	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must say that I was somewhat surprised to learn that I was deplored for a few words that I would have addressed to the Presidency. Just out of knowledge, could I know what they were? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They are contained in the shorthand report. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Since you, Mr President, are deploring me in this House... As you know, no debate is allowed on the deliberations of the Presidency Council. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). But I do not want to discuss it, but to know, Mr President, that it is a completely different concept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer you to the relevant shorthand report. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). What answer is that? Would you like to deplore me for that too? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Please what? Basically, you are saying that I would have held an incorrect attitude towards you and you do not want to explain why. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With regard to the Presidency... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Of course it is with regard to the Presidency, but excuse me, I would like to understand the reason. I am well aware of the situation, but it would seem odd to me that certain statements were used to arrive at this pronunciation - which I do not know what it is: a sanction? A regret? - when the same were perhaps used after, in my opinion, there had been an open violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since you, Mr President, refer to the shorthand report, I would add that it is well known that at that sitting which I imagine you are referring to - given that you do not give me any further information - when you voted, I - and not only myself, but also other senators - requested counterproof, but there is no trace in the proceedings of this request. Nor can it be said that there is no record in the shorthand report because those votes took place at a time of particular confusion, because this not only cannot lead to the suppression of the demands of a senator, but it is also entrusted to the President to restore order. I keep saying that I do not understand the reason why I was deplored. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note of what you said about the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u35	The next item is the debate on Document LVII, No 2-a. The rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. By not making any comments, the request is deemed to have been accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u36	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document (DEF) is an important document for the planning of economic and budgetary policy. It updates, taking into account the changed international and national macroeconomic framework, the commitments made in the DEF on the consolidation of public finances and the guidelines on the various public policies adopted by Italy to respect the European Stability and Growth Pact and the achievement of the growth objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy. Following the adoption of the new European System of National Accounts (ESA 2010), which replaced the previous one, the 2014 DEF Update Note was submitted on 1 October in order to take into account the review of national accounts and the value of gross domestic product determined by the methodological innovations introduced by the SEC 2010 and disseminated by ISTAT on 22 September. However, the Note states that the new data released by ISTAT, on which the forecasts contained in ISTAT are based, are to be considered provisional. In fact, if, following the release of the quarterly data planned for next 15 October - as was reiterated by President Alleva in the hearing held yesterday in the Chamber - there were significant changes in the quarterly growth rates of the various aggregates, which would lead to significant changes also in the projections, the Government will present to Parliament an ad hoc report to review the forecasts and, consequently, the programmatic objectives of public finance, as provided for by the law of public accounting. On the basis of Article 10 of the Accounting Act, the DEF Update Note shall be annexed to the planning reports on investment expenditure for each State budget expenditure mission and the progress reports on the implementation of the relevant multiannual laws. The update of the strategic infrastructure programme provided for by the Target Act, already annexed to the April 2013 Economy and Finance Document, is also attached. Along with the Update Note was also produced, in implementation of Article 6 of Decree-Law No. 66 of 2014, the report on the implementation of strategies to combat tax evasion, on the results achieved in 2013 and the current year, as well as on those expected, with reference to the recovery of revenue deriving from tax evasion, as well as to that attributable to the greater propensity for taxpayers to comply. This document replaces the report on the results achieved in the fight against tax evasion provided for in Decree-Law No 138 of 2011. The report required by Article 6 of the Budget Balance Implementation Act is also attached to the Note, provided that the Government deviates from the budgetary structural planning objective. The Annex states that this update is necessary in view of the substantial deterioration in growth forecasts for the current year and subsequent years, which is an exceptional event, a concept which has been discussed for a long time during all yesterday's hearings. In fact, the Note shows - as a result of the exceptionality of the prolongation of the deterioration of the growth forecasts for the current year and subsequent years - a path of consolidation and growth more gradual than that contained in the 2014 DEF, which is necessarily reflected in the achievement of the balance in structural terms, which is now expected in 2017, with an extension of one year compared to the one established in the 2014 DEF, referred to in the year 2016, and also in this case - remember - with a shift in the achievement of the objective in question that the previous Update Note had indicated for 2015. With regard to the indication of the related drafts of law, as a complement to the 2015-2017 budget maneuver, I note that the Government considers the draft law on measures for the reorganization of public administration related to the budgetary decision, the draft law on measures for the revision of expenditure and for the promotion of employment and investment in the cinema and live entertainment sectors, as well as the draft law delegates in the matter of revision of the local government law (the latter two drafts of law are not yet presented to the Chambers). (The sitting was suspended at 5.16 p.m. and resumed at 5.16 p.m.) I would like to highlight a new aspect of the Update Note to the DEF 2014, which presents for the first time two scenarios of macroeconomic forecasts, one trend and the other programmatic. The forecasts of the trend framework incorporate the effects on the economy of the economic policy actions, reforms and fiscal policy implemented prior to the presentation of the Note. The macroeconomic policy framework, on the other hand, includes the impact on the economy of the new measures to be adopted under the next Stability Act for 2015. The two forecasts coincide for the current year, while they gradually differ for the following years. After this brief premise on the iter and the way in which the Note is built, I would now like to focus on the content. The 2014 Note presents a downward revision of the estimates of the Italian economy for the current year and 2015 compared to the forecasts made in the April 2014 DEF, in view of the recession of the Italian economy in the first part of the year. Also for the following years, the Note sets out a downward revision of the forecasts, in view of the less positive prospects of world demand, which foreshadow a less pronounced recovery in the medium term. The deterioration of the macroeconomic framework compared to the forecast framework contained in the April DEF 2014 - with GDP falling in real terms, also falling in nominal terms - is reflected in the evolution of public finance. The Update Note provides for a net debt to existing legislation of 3% of GDP in 2014, thus equal to the threshold defined by the European budgetary rules, while the forecasts assumed in the DEF placed it at 2.6%. The deterioration stems from the decline in the primary surplus compared with the April estimates - from 2.6 to 1.7% of GDP - only partly offset by the decline in interest expenditure. In part, the comparison between the forecasts of the DEF and those of the Update Note is influenced and, therefore, partially affected, by the adoption of the new accounting system SEC 2010, according to which some of the items of the national economic accounts and, therefore, of the public administration account, have been modified. So nothing has changed in real terms, but only the calculation methods have changed. In 2015, net debt is expected to reach 2.2% of GDP, compared with 2 percent estimated in the DEF, as a result of the same causes of accidents in 2014. Subsequently, net debt is expected to fall to 1.8% of GDP in 2016 and, therefore, to 0.8 in 2018, always benefiting from the reduction in interest expenditure, falling to 4.2 per cent of GDP in 2018. This scenario would reflect a gradual closure of spreads compared to German bonds of up to 100 basis points over the three-year period 2016-2018. The evolution of final revenues and the tax burden is expected to show a substantial variance at the end of the reference period compared to 2014, with a peak in 2016. This development is also affected by the accounting innovations introduced by the ESA, as mentioned above. Expenditure other than interest, on the other hand, benefits from the containment effects of measures launched in previous years and the further results expected from the restructuring of expenditure initiated with spending. Primary expenditure is expected to fall from 46.6 percent in 2014 to 44.8 percent in 2018, thus falling by two percentage points on gross domestic product. As regards the policy framework, net programmatic debt for 2014 is revised to 3% of GDP compared to 2.6 set in the DEF. With regard to 2015, the Government considers it necessary to finance expenditure commitments and the reduction of the tax burden, which will be contained in the next Stability Act only in part, by reducing expenditure. As a result, the 2015 planned net debt of 2.9 per cent of GDP, in addition to being higher than the DEF programme level, will also be 0.7 percentage points higher than the trend value. The fiscal space thus created in 2015 would be used, according to the budgetary strategy that the Government will define in detail in the law of stability, in the permanent reduction of the tax burden of households with medium-low incomes and enterprises, in order to support aggregate demand and to improve competitiveness. For 2016 the nominal and programmatic net debt, equal to 1.8 of GDP, does not anticipate any correction, coinciding with the current legislation, which - instead - will be improved by 0.4 percentage points in 2017 and 0.6 points in 2018. On the basis of the information provided by the Note, the deterioration of the net programmatic debt of 2015, compared to the trend, is entirely due to the reduction of the primary planned surplus, while the improvement correction of 2017-2018 is partly due to the more favourable trend of interest expenditure. In view of the economic circumstances, which would constitute an exceptional event, and the potential negative impact on growth resulting from the corrective manoeuvre necessary to achieve the medium-term objective, the Government considers that it needs to review the budgetary consolidation path compared to the April DEF. To do this, the Government intends to make use of the possibility to deviate from the convergence path on the objective set by national and European legislation, both in the presence of exceptional events, and in association with the implementation of structural reforms that improve the sustainability of public finances in the long term. Therefore, in structural terms (i.e. net of the cyclical component and one-off measures), the balance-of-balance-sheet objective is shifted to the DEF in April 2016 to 2017. As regards the evolution of the government debt ratio, this is significantly affected by the changes made as a result of the adoption of the ESA 2010. Therefore, 2014 should close with a debt-to-GDP ratio, before financial support to the other Member States of the European Union and the past debts of the public administration, amounting to 131.6%, significantly lower than the one planned in the DEF (134.9%), largely due to the statistical revisions that covered the different classification of both the posts that make up the level of the public debt and those that make up the GDP. In the absence of the statistical changes introduced by the ESA 2010, the Update Note estimates that there would be a debt-to-GDP ratio in 2014 of around 136.6 percent. Indeed, the DEF expected a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio from 2015 onwards. In the Update Note, this reduction start is postponed to 2016, while in 2015 there would be an increase of 1.8 percentage points of GDP compared to the previous year. This is mainly due to lower nominal GDP growth than expected, as well as a higher level of public sector needs. Since 2016, the debt-to-GDP ratio would begin to decline with a similar dynamic to that expected by the DEF despite the expected slowdown in economic growth, partly thanks to privatisations from which the Government expects to obtain a revenue of 0.7% per annum in 2015. In 2017 and 2018, with good economic prospects both in terms of real growth and price developments, the improvement of public finance cash balances and privatisation revenues would allow to give the debt a decreasing dynamic up to the level of 124.6 percent in 2018. The Government estimates that the adjustment of the 2015 structural balance, which is necessary to respect the reference value, would be too high, both in terms of feasibility and opportunity, in an economic context such as that envisaged. The Note points out that if the debt-to-GDP ratio deviates from the level laid down in the rule, the European Commission will have to take into account a number of qualitative factors relevant to the overall assessment before opening an infringement procedure. In the Note, the Government notes that several relevant factors have had an impact on the level of debt-to-GDP ratio in 2014 and 2015, including: the severity of the economic cycle, changes in debt related to financial assistance operations in other European countries, the liquidation of commercial debts in public administration, the dynamic structure of debt. I do not briefly deal with the detail contained in the Note on final consumption, exports, inflation and more. Let me just mention the labour market, given the importance of labour dynamics at the moment. As far as the labour market is concerned, the Note points out that, despite the intensity and extent of the Government's interventions to the employment problem, it remains a weakness for Italy. The labour market has suffered from the weakness of the economy and has an unemployment rate still close to historical peaks with worrying values for the age group under the age of twenty-five (although personally for young people under the age of twenty-five I would prefer the continuation of studies in order to greatly increase their ability to face the world of work; as for older age groups and female unemployment some more in-depth reasoning should certainly be done). The Update Note slightly improves the unemployment rate estimates in 2014 to 12.6 percent; a lower value of about 0.2 percentage points compared to the April forecast that would remain stable in 2015. I have to say that a few small positive signals have been put forward in the comments made during the hearing we held yesterday with the representatives of ISTAT. According to ISTAT, the contraction of employment since the second quarter of 2012 has stopped in 2014, but the cyclical evolution is characterized by dynamics still weak and heterogeneous between sectors, on the territory and between the different groups. In the first two quarters of 2014, the number of people employed remained stable in economic terms and the employment rate remained at 55.5% since the third quarter of 2013, although in the summer months the trend was a bit overwhelming. Another aspect of slight comfort is the information coming from the survey on hours worked in enterprises with more than 10 employees, which in the second quarter of the year reported modest and uncertain progress in the input of labour, but still small progress, with a recovery of hours worked especially in market services. Finally, with regard to the Parliamentary Budget Office, a recent novelty, the Note confirms the intervention of the start of the performance of its tasks in September 2014, during which it examined and validated the forecasts of the trend macroeconomic framework set out in the Note. On this validation, the President of the Parliamentary Office also expressed himself during a hearing held at the Joint Budget Committees of the Chamber and Senate on 24 September. On 29 September the Parliamentary Budget Office sent the MEF its letter of validation of the trend macroeconomic forecasts, then published in the Update Note, after it had previously communicated its findings on a first version of these forecasts. Recently, on 10 October, the Parliamentary Budget Office validated the planned macroeconomic forecasts already published in the Update Note and which will be included in the Budgetary Plan Paper to be sent to the European Commission. The Parliamentary Budget Office also validated the macroeconomic policy framework on the basis of the information provided by the MEF on the public finance assumptions adopted in the Note for the transition from the trend economic framework to the policy framework. The Parliamentary Budget Office assessed the realism and reliability of the macroeconomic frameworks presented in the Note, including for the years 2016 and 2018. The report concludes with two substantive referrals. The first concerns the debate that took place in the 5th Commission, where the debate was very interesting and allowed everyone to make a contribution to the debate which, for the intellectual honesty that characterized it, was serene and constructive. The second referral is to the extensive documentation produced by the Department of Studies of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate Budget Service, as well as to the contributions of the Bank of Italy, ISTAT, the Court of Auditors and the Parliamentary Budget Office, yesterday audits by the Joint Commissions. In particular, the work of the Parliamentary Budget Office was appreciated by all Members present at the hearing. Thank you all for your attention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u37	I would remind you, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups, that the discussion will end with the separate examination of the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 and the Update Note of the 2014 Economic and Financial Document. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u40	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. Obviously, after having understood well what has just happened, I apologise to all my colleagues if I will make them lose a few minutes, but because this sanction of regret is not a career prize, but I imagine it is the expression of a negative assessment of me, you will understand well the reason why I intend to intervene immediately. Mr President, Senators, why should I make a point of order? Because we're really exaggerating now. Rule 12 and Rule 67 of our Rules of Procedure provide for three types of sanctions: reference to order, censorship and prohibition of participation in proceedings. As I am talking about sanctions, the general principle of our system, which is referred to in Article 25 of the Constitution, does not provide that sanctions other than those expressly provided for in the texts of primary, secondary or other laws can be imagined. I do not care if something like this has happened in the past; what matters to me, Mr President, Senators, is to say strongly that no one - I say no one - can go beyond the law or beyond the Rules of Procedure by inventing a different sanction, obviously not being able to impose those laid down in the Rules of Procedure or by law when they do not meet the requirements. What does Senator Palma say about the Presidency? And as if I now deplore you, Mr Gasparri, for the words you are using: nothing matters what you say to me, nothing matters what I say to you; with one difference: you, conveying this decision of the Presidency Council in this Chamber, clearly exposes my image to a vulnus that my poor report really cannot allow. Then, just to be clear, Mr President, Senators, if, on the assumption that I have been deplored, you still have to be ashamed of the sentence I have addressed to the Presidency, which appears from the Minutes of that day, Mr President, I think it would have been correct and fair, even in view of what is the general rules of our system, to note that I was not allowed to speak on the proposed amendments to the timetable shortly before, despite the fact that this is expressly provided for in Rule 55 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Nor, Mr President - and I conclude - can it be worth what appears from the report (please go see it very quietly and calmly) or that President Romani had made an explanation of vote earlier when we were discussing the inclusion of changes in the timetable. I say this because the Presidency told me on that occasion that I could not speak because Senator Paolo Romani had already spoken to explain the voting direction of our Group. I objected that it was not a speech to explain the reasons for the vote but a request to change the timetable, and I was so right that, as you can see from the Minutes of that sitting, it turns out that President Grasso put the request of President Romani to decide and vote the following day in the first vote. Therefore, Mr President, I do not accept in the most absolute way this lamentation - or what the hell it is called - which I really consider to be a manifestation of arrogance; I do not accept it in the most absolute way and I have set out my reasons. I hope that the President-in-Office, Mr Melius, will be able to withdraw what he felt he had to do without the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u43	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too am speaking on a point of order, although for different reasons than those outlined by Senator Palma, but which have as their dominant exception the violation of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the measure which the Presidency Council adopted, in particular with regard to me, with the measure of censure. Mr President, Rule 67 (1) provides that: If a senator, despite the appeal inflicted on him by the President, - in that specific case none of the senators to whom the provision of censorship has been addressed has ever been recalled - he will persist in his conduct, or even, regardless of previous calls, he will pass on insults or de facto ways or appeal to violence or, in any case, carry out acts of particular gravity, the President will pronounce censorship against him. The Presidency Council, however, neglects the last part of paragraph 1 of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, where it expressly says: In the case of censorship and exclusion from the Chamber, the provisions of the last paragraph of Rule 66 (1) shall apply, which reads as follows: The senator referred to the order may give explanations to the Senate at the end of the sitting or even immediately, in the opinion of the President. I mean that, when a disciplinary measure is adopted in any context, in any assembly, in any location, the person to whom the dispute is addressed is allowed to give his own justifications, if any. Unheard of measures alters part, authoritative decrees in this House, and in no other where justice is exercised, are not allowed. For these reasons, and especially because the measure has been adopted without respect for the last paragraph of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, I appeal not already to President Grasso but to all the members of the Presidency Council to take account of my speech and wisely assess the possibility of the withdrawal of the measure. That then there has been a reaction I would say in some way confused by those who suffer, like me, the violations of the Rules of Procedure when taking measures that strongly affect the citizens and in general the Italians, I believe that already in re ipsa is contained the justification of a moment of animosity that accompanies that action (by a senator or a Member). I would therefore like to conclude by expressly asking for the withdrawal of the measure of censure which has been imposed on myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u44	I would like to point out that the decisions that have been taken at a meeting of the Presidency Council, which has all the powers and responsibilities under the Rules of Procedure, following a debate that has lasted over two hours. There is no harm in any way to the goodness of someone, but assessments are made, which can also be questionable, which are not the subject of debate and vote in relation to the facts. It can happen to everyone what we're talking about. I, too, at that meeting, found some of my history of censorship that I suffered, censorship that in no way affected my political activity. I repeat that they can happen to everyone, and they too are a source of experience in the political and parliamentary life of each one. CRIMI (M5S). A medal, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Depends.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u45	I declare the debate open. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u46	Mr President, we have analyzed the Update Note to our examination in a constructive spirit, trying to find in the folds of the various pitfalls which are made up of what is often said by the Government and, in particular, by the Prime Minister. We have tried to find courage and above all consistency; that courage and consistency which - as I have just said - often, and also in this House, have been spoken by the Prime Minister, and not only by him, but we get there. Of these words, which we have always listened carefully and which we would have liked to find within this Update Note, however, we found no trace. I am referring in particular to Annex III, which concerns the strategic infrastructure programme. We shared a passage made in this House by the Prime Minister, when he solemnly said - and even with a pinch of arrogance, which never lacks in our Prime Minister - that all too often works are programmed in our country and resources are made available, but these works not only do not come to an end, they often do not even leave. On the contrary, all too often they do not even reach the level of design, they fall into nothing during the course of all the bureaucratic process necessary to get to the shipbuilding. I remember that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Infrastructure Lupi - the latter in the Commission - have repeatedly stressed this critical issue. We cannot fail to agree, especially with regard to the objective law, which has become a list of expenditures, a kind of dream book, in which works are recorded, which are considered strategic for our country, but which in fact will never be realized. Turning back to Annex III, which contains the strategic infrastructure programme, I would like to focus in particular on the second chapter, which highlights the remodulations and assignments that should characterize the whole objective law: these are therefore the revocations and redeployments related to the strategic infrastructure programme. Right here we would have liked to find consistency and courage; that courage that has been lacking from 2001 to today by all governments - I assume the responsibility of what I say - that is, the courage to make a fundamental step, stating that if a work is always and constantly enrolled in the program, but has not even begun the first step of the procedural process, it makes no sense to continue to deceive the territories and to make available resources, which perhaps are not there. With a well-known controversy, I mean that certain remodulations have been made with a criterion that is not what was beautifully represented on several occasions by the Prime Minister, but rather following what he likes to call the old method of politics. In fact, I see that even the boy learns well and applies this way of doing that so stigmatizes. I don't go into the details of the many voices we've found, because it would be funny. In particular, as has always been the case in this country, we see that funding is withdrawn and it is re-used for the same work. This may be the case, but there are works in every part of the country that will never see the light. The courage that we would have liked from this Government - I say it serenely - would have been in the sense of taking into consideration the added values that the territories, so stigmatized by the Prime Minister and your Government I refer to Regions and Provinces, have signalled for the objective law. In our country there are works that have been realized or that are being realized for functional lots (I use the word functional and not, as you say, constructive lots, that is another thing and we do not like; functional lots are something different). The great commitment on the part of the territories was to coordinate the procedure and to make resources available. In the objective law there are works that have seen the co-financing by Regions and Provinces and that, in order to reach their conclusion, to be able to sing and make them operational would suffice a really minimal intervention from the Government. Let me give you an example: the accessibility to Valtellina (which I know because I come from there and I worked there as provincial councilor) provides for a functional lot covered in most of the Lombardy Region (here I see the then Governor who well knows what was done for that work), co-financed by the Region and even the Province, which has self-taxed. I would have expected, indeed I say it with serenity, to see an impetus from the Government to make available a few million euros, on a planned expenditure of over 150 million euros, to start a work that has completed its procedural process completely; however, this momentum is not there. For example, it would have been enough - I say it this way, a little maliciously - for the money that has been re-modulated on accessibility to Malpensa, which was perhaps appropriate, instead of devoting them once again to the payment of contractual relations with regard to the design of the bridge on the Strait of Messina. I will conclude by saying that something more was really expected. A little while ago we had a discussion about how in this country we do not deal with certain problems related to hydrogeological failure, but as far as infrastructure is concerned we are in the same conditions. I will stop here, but there would be a lot to talk about, for example, broadband networks, on which we have heard all the colors these days. We didn't even think there could be anything worse than what Minister Passera told us at the time of the Monti Government, but once again we can say that there is no limit to the worst in this country and the smoke is getting denser and denser. Smoking, smoky, smoky! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u47	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, in cumulative terms, the fall in GDP in Italy is greater than that which occurred during the great depression of 1929; this is stated in the premise of the Update Note to the DEF. What can I say? It is a first bath of realism on the path still along the road of truth. However, the overall system that characterizes the Update Note to the DEF continues to appear unbelievable, in line, unfortunately, with that vein of hypocrisy that has characterized the last governments. Indeed, the objective of recognizing the failure of the economic policies put in place to date, daughters of the theory of austerity and balance of the budget, of which the Deputy Minister is one of the fathers, is not operated for the sake of transparency and sincerity, but as obliged by European norms. The macroeconomic framework outlined, compared to last April's data, is characterised by a severe deterioration, with a downward revision of the estimate of GDP for 2014 and 2015. This outlook allows to include among the government's policy objectives for 2015 a structural deficit adjustment of only about one tenth of a percentage point compared to 2014. A slowdown in the planned return path from the deviation, which is compatible with the rules of the European Union. A transaction that you had already planned with the DEF 2014, but whose data you have now been forced to review further downwards and a few months later with this Note. Europe is asking us to do that, and that would be something to say. Otherwise, the Italian people could also continue to lie as they have done in recent years. Let's face it, there is no exceptional event to justify the current change of perspective that is not the physiological consequence of the ineffectiveness of the measures taken so far. The only thing of an exceptional nature is the pervicacious lack of any capacity to govern economic policy. I am not an economist, but I would like to remind you - as I said in the debate on the DEF a few months ago - that policy intervention in the economy is not the result of an exact science, but of conscious choices and system. Faced with the projected data also in this Note, it seems to find us in a post-war country. The negative trend of the price index, together with the fall in domestic demand (drammatic that of investment goods) and falling inflation, speaks to us of a system in clear economic stagnation and in a situation of pronounced depression. These are signs that should be observed, because the maintenance of the social system is at stake. For 2015 we will therefore abandon the objectives on the structural balance - at last, it could be said - and on the return of debt imposed by fiscal compact and European rules, delaying the achievement of the structural balance to 2017, but guaranteeing the usual safeguard clauses (automatic increases of indirect taxes and VAT to achieve however the budgetary objectives perhaps in 2016-18) that will impact, if the expectations on the economic recovery and the effects of your maneuvers were not respected, in a devastating way on our lives. All the expenditure commitments indicated in the Note to the DEF are obtained from cuts and using the 0.7% deviation between the deficit-GDP ratio and the trend ratio; figures which are only announced and on which an act of faith is asked about how they will be found, because the actual and clear resources are not indicated. It still goes too far in optimism, however, considering that growth in 2015 will be 0.5 percent (compared to 0.1 percent predicted by the OECD) and that it will rise - so you support - to 0.6 percent thanks to the interventions of the Government (which will be worth double in 2016). One might say: we keep waiting for Godot. The strategy that emerges from the Note is that shortsighted - let me say, Mr Deputy Minister - to reassure in the immediate mortgage of the future. You say that only in 2016, perhaps, if all goes well, the ratio of real GDP to potential will be able to return to line or, in numerical terms, not to deviate much from what we will unfortunately close this year. The output gap - according to these experts - would be around -0.4% of the potential GDP only in 2018. We doubt - let us say this in a strong way - the validity of the perspectives illustrated as a stable reference for the economic expectations of the medium and long term of the Country. Anti-cyclical maneuvers and policies cannot fail to concern the national production system, which, in the state, is unable to sustain any growth. How do you do it regardless of industrial production if you want GDP to grow? And how do we make industrial production grow if companies are choked by taxes and without liquidity, drained by a banking system interested in transforming it into pure rent or giving rise to financial speculation without returning to the real economy? Only by giving rise to an industrial policy which looks at process innovation and which is capable of affecting our production system will we be able to try to restore competitiveness to an agonizing national economy, which also needs the support of adequate domestic demand. But how can we imagine it if we have the digital agenda project standing at the stake? Support, which becomes vital for social cohesion itself, together with the need to put in place a new mechanism to help achieve the effective equality provided for in our Constitution. The income of citizenship for us is a precondition for true freedom: a mechanism that must arise from a rethinking and a reform of the entire social system and that will be able - once activated - to produce even a flying effect. These are the key axes for a lasting recovery of a labour market with a youth unemployment rate still at 44.2%. An army of young people, most coming from a forgotten Mezzogiorno and abandoned to the mafias, once again forced to emigrate to survive. A territory, the southern one, that could constitute a formidable reservoir of resources to mobilize for the well-being of an entire country and that, once again, you have abandoned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u51	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is 14 October and the content of the Stability Act has already been widely published in the newspapers, which as always receive texts and information before Parliament. The note we are talking about today is already surpassed by the content of the new budget maneuver announced to the press. The Document of Economics and Finance is nothing more than the heir of the old Document of Economic and Financial Programming. The principle of financial programming on a three-year basis, both in terms of policy planning, objectives and resources, and in terms of the implementation of public finance maneuvers is provided for by the 2009 Accounting Act and sees its arrangements implemented in the articles of the Stability Act and the Budget Act. Now, thinking about numbers completely different from those planned in the Note does not seem to us the best way of considering Parliament. Above all, it appears a way not to properly plan the country's exit from the permanent recession in which the three Governments of the unelected: Monti, Letta and Renzi have brought it. Evidently the Government has noticed in good time that the Update Note to the DEF represents a real declaration of surrender. The white flag waved over the bridge of the Update Note to the DEF and now gives way to an alleged declaration of war on the taxes of the President of the Council. Well, President Renzi, my dearest welcome to the Forza Italia club! We'll see if they're actually gonna decrease taxes or if they're gonna decrease tax deductions at the same time, actually reset the benefit of the IRPEF bonus for someone and charge taxes for someone else. Even here, incidentally, the tax burden in the Note under consideration is increased to 43.4%, with effective tax pressure well over 52 percent. The only one - I repeat - that so far in Italy has really lowered taxes is Silvio Berlusconi, who had the courage to act by creating a no tax area up to 7,500 euros, giving rise to the first rate of 23 percent up to 26,000 euros, while before it was 29 percent between 15,000 and 28,000 euros and, after him, has returned to grow to 27 percent. He always introduced the deductions that reduced the tax for every family member in charge of the head of the family, swept away the tax on inheritances and donations; then he removed the ICI and imposed himself to have the reborn IMU removed on the first house and so on. In short, it has always been an arm of iron between a liberal force and a socialist force, which has so far seen the armed arm of its policies in the redistribution of wealth and taxation. This was also the case with the April Decree on Competitiveness and Social Justice, which raised taxes on savings from 20% to 26%. In the DEF Note, the prospects for the impact of the reforms are denied both in the trend framework - for which Renzi is largely responsible considering that it has been governing since 22 February 2014 - and in the new policy framework. The impact on the growth of the new reforms that should be contained in the 2015 Stability Act and related billing is inconsistent: from the IRPEF bonus comes a more 0.1%, from the reduction of the IRAP a more 0.1, from the rest of the 2015 Stability Act even a -0,1. The reforms of justice, public administration, measures for competitiveness and jobs act give a 0 percent, the safeguard clause a -0.2 (in particular, the increase in VAT and other indirect taxes was assumed to amount to 12.4 billion in 2016, 17.8 billion in 2017 and 21.4 billion in 2018). I would just like to remind you that the last law of stability 2014 (of the Letta Government) - with paragraph 430 of Article 1 - has already provided for safeguard clauses. In the absence of cuts, by January 1, 2015, there will be increases in tax rates and reductions in the discounts and deductions in force to ensure higher revenues of 3 billion in 2015, 7 billion in 2016 and 10 billion in 2017. Always the law of stability 2014 (always of the Letta Government), article 1, paragraph 427, as amended by decree-law n. 4 of 2014 and decree-law n. 90 of 2014 (this attributable to the Renzi Government), previews 1,553 million spending review in 2015, in order to avoid the linear cuts to the Ministries. These commitments are already to be honoured with existing legislation plus the new safeguard clauses. If small reforms continue to be proposed, only small results can be expected, such as those envisaged. On the contrary, shock reforms are needed, initiatives with appreciable amounts, widely shared and therefore lasting. We need an overall design that marks a serious turning point compared to the past. For the first time we feel the use of the term shock on the left, with which we have always characterized our proposal to get the country out of the swamp in which it stopped. The anticipations given to the newspapers on the law of stability could go in this direction, the Note of the DEF certainly does not move in that direction. Organic reforms are needed in every sector of expenditure, which are widely shared in order to be lasting. The pension reform has gone in the direction of making future pension expenditure sustainable. It had to be done without creating those injustices between generations and without leaving pensioners of series A and of series B, but it marks a new system of sustainable calculation for public finances. First of all, therefore, we need a tax reform that has a decisive impact on household accounts and also (and is very important) on business budgets. A lasting impact. Not an archigolo like 80 euros. Important is the sum made available (6,6 billion, which became almost ten in 2015), absolutely wrong the method and audience of the beneficiaries, which includes some and excludes other citizens who may be worse. Reasoning as if it were a text to the contrary, in the Note to the DEF there are a little less than 5 billion reduction in expenditure, in President Renzi's advances the cuts should be equal to 13.3 billion. But it was 18,3, according to Cottarelli, in March, and 17 in the April DEF. Only the figure of net debt, at 2.9 per cent, is consistent, with a 0.7 per cent higher than the previous estimates, which corresponds to approximately 11.5 billion more expenditure for 2015. Now President Renzi announces a 30 billion maneuver. Considering that the account between giving and having doesn't return, let's just try to imagine how it will cover your needs. In April, he obtained in Decree-Law No 66 an authorisation for a further issue of public debt securities of 40 billion. It is likely that he will appeal to you again. If these are the figures, with the European Commission's good peace, the Maastricht criteria are not met, both for the deficit-to-GDP ratio and also for the debt-to-GDP ratio. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u52	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF Update Note notes the very significant worsening of the economic framework. Minister Padoan in his report accompanying the DEF draws a scenario that is far from optimistic, as some have said, but rather underlines that, in the absence of decisive and profound actions of economic and budgetary policy, these macroeconomic indicators would have dramatic effects, which would call into question the maintenance of the productive and social fabric of the entire country. Therefore, we are at a very serious and very serious moment of which, beyond, the raw numbers of this document, we should all be aware to collectively assume the responsibilities that are ours, in the awareness that we are at a stage in our history in which the future of the new generations is determined. For this reason - in my opinion, very appropriately - the DEF redefines the path of structural consolidation, deferring to 2017 the structural balance of the budget, without, however, on the other hand, easing the control action and, above all, the redevelopment of public expenditure. For 2015, the deficit ranges from 2.2 to 2.9 percent, i.e. 0.7 percentage points of GDP higher than the previous trend. This is the framework within which the law of stability will be placed, which, as announced by the President of the Council of Ministers, will use the entire space determined by this postponement of the structural balance, amounting to about 11 billion, to achieve an expansionary maneuver aimed at supporting the medium-low incomes and the incentives of the companies that invest and create work. We need to stress and be fully aware that this represents a radical reversal of budgetary policy in recent years, focused almost exclusively on reducing expenditure. Of course, these actions today allow us to use the margins in an expansive way: if we had not carried out very incisive and structural operations such as the one - although complex, painful and characterized by some zigzags - of pension reform, today we could not even think of carrying out the operations that we are going to start instead. However, we are faced with those exceptional situations - that is, severe economic recession within the euro area and the whole of the European Union - and extraordinary events that Article 6 of Constitutional Law No 243 of 2012 indicates as the conditions allowing a deviation from the policy objective of budgetary balance. There is no doubt that today we are in a period of severe recession: this is indicated by the worsening figures of GDP, employment and public and private investment. In particular, I believe we must focus on unemployment, because youth is burning the energies of entire generations and produces that exodus of skills, brains, creativity and skills that impoverishes, for now and for the future, our human capital, which today is the element and the most valuable factor to start a growth that is fully founded - as we know - on research and innovation, therefore on the ability to have very strong creative energies, such as those that the whole world recognizes us. We, however, are losing them and the news on the negative balance between the revenues and the exits of new residents in Italy say a lot. Faced with this economic framework, a policy that is all about spending cuts would obviously have dramatic and perverse procyclical effects that our system would not be able to withstand. The announced measures change their mark and aim at a massive reduction in revenue, partly financed in deficit. This is the operation that we must propose and defend in Europe: from this point of view, all independent research and economic analysis institutes, which have been validated by the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office, tell us that the framework of the main macroeconomic indicators contained in the DEF is not only reliable but even prudential. Of course, as I said, there is now a confrontation with the European Union, which will have to allow this deviation. I believe that in this action and on this line, support for the Government must be from the whole country, as well as from the entire Parliament, because it is the only way out of the deep crisis we have fallen into. The Government has done well to reaffirm the respect of the 3% constraint - unlike what France has done - by settling within that limit for the easing of the deficit. Our level of debt is such that a loss of credibility towards the markets would be lethal, not for Germany or for Europe, but for us, because we would risk returning to the situation at the end of 2011, with an unsustainable rise in spread precisely because we are in a phase of decline and recession. This makes our public debt seem unsustainable, which has reached very high levels due to the fact that the denominator of GDP has fallen, with an increase in proportion to the debt-to-GDP ratio. That is why we must put in place that very complex operation - which goes on very tight ground - which consists in pushing the deficit for expansionary policies and keeping the level of debt so as not to disturb the financial markets, which have the phenomenal weapon of the cost of our debt, and which is on the other hand the element that allows us to have a financial space in the budget today thanks to the lowering that we have recorded since 2012. The whole of Europe, including Germany, of which the first signs of crisis can be seen with a significant decline in industrial production, a phenomenon that is quite predictable for a country that exports a large part of its production to European countries now in recession. Germany will have to understand that Europeanist ideals are not enough to bring about a great political project, if this will no longer give people hope for the future, for work, for widespread welfare and for social justice. We expect the law of stability to decline consistently and firmly the objectives announced. Some macro-objectives are indicated by the DEF, but it will be up to the Council of Ministers tomorrow to translate them into concrete and convincing terms. We also expect that the law of stability will not be expected to implement those laws - many - which already exist and which go in the right direction indicated by the Government. I am referring, for example, to the reduction of public companies, for which it is already written, as well as to support innovation and startups, given the existence of financial mechanisms to support private investment in sectors of public interest. The instruments are therefore there, even if they are often not implemented and are slowed down because of a bureaucracy that is not proactive, that does not walk in the right direction and with the time necessary for the economic emergency that we are experiencing and the impulses that the government gives. This is a point on which I believe that the government absolutely must act because, where possible, we must not waste time and we must not go against the legislative obsession, which is part of the disease of our system. Let us proceed whenever possible - and this is largely possible - by administrative means, but this implies that the whole Government is able to guide the administration in one direction, be able to verify the action and measure its results. Moreover, there are some actions announced by the Government that can have a lot of impact on growth, and this must be recalled, as Vice Minister Morando pointed out in the Commission. The revision of the Stability Pact for Municipalities, for example, can lead to acceleration of micro-investments on the ground, which are very liquid micro-investments, involving small local businesses, and which therefore have a very significant impact on work and employment in a short time. The revision of real estate taxation, its simplification and its downsizing are indispensable in order to revive, precisely, the real estate market, which is in a very deep crisis. I would like to mention, again, the exchange between the State, on the one hand, and local authorities and regions, on the other, between reforms and the exercise of fiscal and spending powers. From this point of view it is necessary to make responsibility: "Tax and spend only if you make the reforms" otherwise these powers go to some degree sterilized. The direction taken is right, but it is necessary - as I pointed out earlier - for there to be a government and administration all prosthetic to the implementation of this project, which is a medium-term project, which tends to put Italy back on track and put it back in the context of the most dynamic and competitive nations. This is one of the most critical points we have seen in recent months and on which I urge the Government to adopt the necessary organizational measures, which are an essential part of the project. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u54	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u55	Mr President, the economic indicators predict a moderate increase in GDP in the first quarter and a more sustained recovery in the following quarters: this was said by the DEF last April. It is inevitable to ask on the basis of which data and scenarios the Government had drawn up in April the data relating to the growth, considering that today we are in the midst of recession. The Monetary Fund tells us that Italy will file 2014 with a decline in GDP worse than the Monetary Fund itself predicted in July. There is an absolute, total and peremptory - indeed, I would say universal - lack of ideas and strategies. The Italy of the liar Mind to third party will be the usual: it will burn resources, it will have a higher debt and the people and citizens will have in hand the usual fist of flies. Grisu, the dragon Dragons, says that structural reforms are the priority. Lying to third parties seizes the ball and gets the jobs act approved by those who, in conscience, had to fight it: the Democratic Party. But are we sure that this kind of reform is the main driver of growth? In Italy, in the last seven years, there have been seven labour reforms, which have led to a collapse of income and an exponential growth of unemployment. You've been strike. A curiosity. In the 1960s the PCI used the slogan of structural reforms; now the managers of European finance and the scenic Italian rulers use it. Slogans that serve to mask the void, the nothingness and to digest further pickets to the building of the welfare. The Movement denounces and does not propose: always this you say on TV. Here is medicine: redistributing the tax burden from work to income, from the poor to the rich; investing in small works, not large ones; investing truly in human capital, research and innovation; returning to industrial policy; developing a welfare and citizenship income that protects and promotes innovation and flexibility at the same time; relaunching incomes and demand in all European countries and overcoming the fiscal constraints of this Europe that we all want different. Recapitulating: you must apply the 5 Star Movement program immediately. The measures taken by the Government to enforce our country's European constraints are a total failure. Among the main objectives of the Government action indicated in this Update Note is the adoption of the decree unblocks Italy, yet another emergency intervention, derogation and heterogeneous, which arouses the concerns of the Bank of Italy, the Antitrust and, by chance, the National Anti-corruption Authority. These derogations are introduced which risk - we know that this will be the case - contributing to devastating the landscape and helping the country's many lobbies. As always. Senator Girotto, today absent, was ready to give you the availability of your abilities for a true energy revolution. [[Call the president back.]] But you don't care about the people of small and medium-sized enterprises: you care about the money, the public money, to be bestowed without cause and to be given away. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u56	Time's up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u57	CASTALDI (M5S). Senator Petrocelli has given up his intervention. We've got four more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he doesn't have four more minutes. We don't know. Take a minute and finish, Senator Castaldi. CASTALDI (M5S). I'll finish. Livorno's LLT is an example of this. This regasifier - I tell the citizens - came into operation in 2013 and, to date, has no supply contracts. And who pays the cost of this regasifier, Senator Cioffi? The citizens, the community! All of us citizens still pay unholy choices made to enrich a few friends. Stop! Stop! Stop! For this reason, we will express a clear opposition to the Update Note under consideration and to the policies that derive from it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the data are subject to interpretation, those expressed in the DEF objectively photograph a serious reality, now known, of suffering for Italian families and businesses: the country is struggling to get up and that is a fact. 18.24 (Following GALIMBERTI). The reforms announced by President Renzi that they had to relaunch the economy have been overestimated and this is confirmed by the very words of the Government. But let's get into more detail. IRPEF Bonus. It has not relaunched consumption and forecasts for 2014 say it will have a zero impact, while for 2015 it will have a positive effect of 0.1 percent instead of 0.3%. At a time when domestic demand has fallen by 15 years, we cannot be content with results of zero or a little above. Jobs act. Another downward revision of employment growth is only 0.1%, compared with 0.3% in April. The long-awaited jobs act will only stop the bleeding of unemployment rather than create new jobs and therefore future for those who do not have a job today. It seems to me to be a modest and, above all, insufficient perspective. jobs act that the government brought home showing the muscles of trust and humiliating the parliamentary debate that would bring possible improvements to the text of the delegation law. Public administration reform. This move, unlike the announcements, will lead to a GDP growth for 2015 of only one miserable 0.1%. To such a modest objective there is a strong penalty for the enterprises going to hit the system of chambers of commerce that represent a real and concrete reference point for the economic development of the territory. Some might object to the fact that the data I have listed are actually natural minimum reductions that are always subject to adjustment. That would be true if we did not compare GDP figures from 0.8% expected in April to -0.3% in October. A downward revision of -1.1 percentage point. We cannot overlook the fact that the figures we are discussing today are the result of a revision of the calculation of GDP, which takes into account the resources generated by illegal activities worth 15.5 billion, i.e. 0.9% of GDP. If there had been no revaluation, the debt-to-GDP ratio would have increased to 136.6 percent, i.e. 2 points higher than the April DEF. Once again, the reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio as well as the structural balance initially planned for 2016 and updated to 2017 are postponed by one year instead of 2015. I wonder if the year will ever come when these objectives will actually be met. The only positive data are, once again, from the item "External trade" true driving force of the Italian economy thanks to the ability of Italian companies to impose themselves abroad and appeal and to the quality of Made in Italy. However, one cannot ignore the consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and the 8.5% reduction in the volume of trade with those two countries which penalizes many companies for which the Government should work. Speaking instead of what the next bill of stability will contain, the Government has stated that structural interventions will be planned for the development of the economy partially financed by expenditure reductions and without any increase in taxation. Well, then I wonder how the Premier defines the so-called rescue clauses on VAT and other indirect taxes. We have some of the highest tax pressures in the world. It is scandalous that at a time when the economy should be revived, it is precisely the taxes that insist on consumer goods that continue to be increased. On the other hand, I welcome the proposal to abolish that unfair tax represented by the IRAP that affects businesses; this is perhaps the only real proposal that will bring benefits to the business fabric. Similarly, I welcome the government's decision to make the 80 euro bonus structural, provided that it also extends to the previously excluded categories such as VAT consignments, incapients and pensioners. Last point, the payment of the debts of the public administration, announced in the discourse on trust, postponed and never realized. In the MEF's last Note, it is argued that the resources allocated so far are more than sufficient to dispose of the pathological debt. We want the government to keep the promises made to our businesses and pay the debt entirely. In conclusion, Madam President, it can be said that this Update Note to the DEF, rather than a particular adjustment to the spring forecast, seems to be a complete rewrite in the dark of the current situation and of the macroeconomic prospects of our country, in which, instead of admitting the failure of the government's economic policy choices, excuses are provided and the blame is attributed to the failure to achieve the objectives of the negative international economic situation. I mean, the usual barrel dump we've been used to in recent months by the Renzi government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u60	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u61	Mr Moscardelli (PD). Mr President, I would like to be able to give my speech so that it can be annexed to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u62	Colleagues, last April, discussing the DEF, I proposed, a little provocatively, but not so much, given the importance of this information in defining economic policy choices, to introduce sanctioning mechanisms if the data provided to Parliament under the DEF were incorrect. Even as a non-expert, I had intuition that something was wrong, and in fact what did this Government come to say in April, in the midst of the rage of Renziano of the hundred days, that they then tenfold becoming a thousand? This: that the Italian economy, in 2014, would grow by 0.8%, then to increase to +1.3% in 2015. What do we read now, six months away? This: that the new macroeconomic framework is characterized by a severe deterioration, with a downward revision of the estimate of GDP performance for 2014 and 2015, respectively -0,3 and +0,6 per cent. This is accompanied by unemployment of more than 12%, which breaks up 40% among young people. The measures announced are inversely proportional to the resources allocated. Where will you find the money for the release of the wages of the Forces of Order, to reduce the Irap and, dulcis in the end, the three billions to be financed left in inheritance by the Letta Government? My teacher in epidemiology and statistics, when sometimes the data did not correlate for some bias of selection, said: "We are not processing fantasy data! Then he'd correct himself and the numbers would come back. Here instead the superman Renzi transforms the programmatic tweets into promises as a sailor and, since every promise is debt, the debt increases, and what a dye! And again, in this Note we read that the debt ratio is expected to be 131.6 percent for 2014 and 133.4 percent for 2015. Too bad that Renzi's denial on this point is that there is neither the 5 Star Movement, nor any other owl of the noantri, but a global institution: the great owl of the International Monetary Fund, which in the report presented on Italy, shares the ratio of public debt to GDP to 136.4%, a difference, compared to the Government's assessment, of almost five points, equal to little more than 80 billion, if measured in euros. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]] These are the bad news coming from the owls in Washington. In Brussels, however, they still have to digest the worst of the bad news: the postponement to 2017 of the balance of the structural budget, a little' yet another diet postponed to the following Monday. In addition, if the stability of public finances does not return, it is feared that VAT rates and other direct taxes could be increased by more than 12 billion in 2016...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u63	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u64	FUCKSIA (M5S). Here, I'll finish. But I had four minutes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. It's been more than three minutes and 40 seconds. FUCKSIA (M5S). I was saying, over 20 billion in 2018. Translated: the blow of grace for businesses and families, already at the end of their strength. For the health chapter (I said it then): a sòla; now I add: a sòla without shoes. Madam President, I ask that the remaining part of my speech be delivered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. FUCKSIA (M5S). I want to say that all this will make us the principle that we will get to do nothing of what is needed and not even to consider that huge problem represented by corruption equal to about 35 billion of'magna magna magna' which, added to incompetence and irrationality, leads us, as far as health care is concerned, to see the right to health cut, so that we can conclude that corruption seriously harms health. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u65	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u66	Madam President, reading the introductory part of the DEF Update Note, written by Minister Padoan, seems to emerge for the first time a sort of realism with respect to the situation we are experiencing: it is stated, for example, that in recent years there has been a sin of optimism in predicting the increase of GDP and of all macroeconomic factors affecting our country. It can even be said that the fall in GDP in Italy is higher than in the course of the crisis and depression in 1929. Since 2007 there has been a reduction in GDP by more than 9%. Well, from this first analysis and from other parts of the intervention of Minister Padoan you could have the impression that the provision to the attention of the Senate and then of the House was really based on a healthy realism. In fact, then, reading later, it is evident that even for 2015 there is a forecast of GDP growth of 0.6%, which is expected to reach, between 2016 and 2018, one percent. Therefore, we continue to perpetrate the sort of false and false optimism that has characterized the analysis of the state's accounts in recent years. Therefore, in the face of a realistic premise, there is also a measure based for the umpteenth time on considerations that will obviously not be realized in fact. A reality that is built on other data, which must be remembered: there is a deflation that has become a certainty by now; there is unemployment that has risen in recent years to 12.6 in absolute terms and over 40% among young people. It is stated in the text, always written by Minister Padoan, that it is difficult to recover the competitiveness and sustainability of the debt; there is a deficit-GDP ratio that is over 130%, and above all a tax burden that is now unsustainable. There is no point in reducing certain taxes on the one hand, such as IRAP, for quantities at the moment still ridiculous, and on the other hand, through the application of taxes such as IMU, TASI, TARI and with the increase in energy costs in fact take with one hand what you have given with the other. This is the reality of the facts: there is no real reduction in the tax burden, which for businesses and families is further increasing and will increase again in the coming years, beyond optimism, which is not built on realistic data, offered continuously by the President-in-Office of the Council. We are in fact in a situation of stagnation and decline, in which the Government proposes solutions based on absolutely contingent factors. The possibility of increasing the deficit and financing a reduction in the tax burden is linked this year to two contingent factors. A first factor is the lower burden of interest on public debt: this year's contingent factor that we have no certainty can be confirmed in the years to come. The other is linked to a review of the GDP counts, based on new items among which stands out an increase linked to the inclusion of illegal activities. Therefore, reference is made in the calculation of the GDP of the Italian State to drug trafficking, prostitution and cigarette smuggling, for a value calculated at least 15.5 billion, equal to 0.9% of GDP. It is clear that this calculation makes, in fact, no longer realistic the deficit-GDP ratio, calculated previously on the legal wealth produced by our country. And it is only this occasionality that allows to go into deficit and to go, therefore, from 2.2 to 2.9 percent. What worries us most is the fact that this Government, if for next year the expected revenues will not be sufficient and there will be a substantial balance of the budget between revenues and expenditures, decides an increase of the tax, starting from 2016 of 12,4 billion, for 2017 of 17,8 and for 2018 of 21,4. This is the famous safeguard clause which, in fact, apart from the considerations and statements of the President-in-Office of the Council, lays down, if necessary, the automatic increase in VAT and other indirect taxes. Today we have heard President Renzi say that for the first time there will be no increase in the tax levy. The safeguard clause, in fact, shows instead that this forecast has been inserted, and is authorized by the Government. We are also concerned that the other investment coverage by the Government is linked to a reduction in public expenditure, which is not based on punctual choices, the result of the work that has seen various extraordinary commissioners engaged, who have never produced a measure, an effective relationship in recent years; or perhaps the last Government, the Renzi Government, considered that the data of the spending review should not be applied. On the contrary, it was considered appropriate to continue to pursue the policy of linear cuts, which does not reward the virtuous bodies, but penalizes all local authorities - municipalities, regions and provinces - without an effective analysis of what expenses can be reduced and which instead cannot result in further reductions. We would have expected - for example - that, for the cut to local authorities, and to the municipalities in particular, a different cut would finally be established, for the first time, especially those who historically received much higher resources per capita than the national average. If the cuts are driven in this direction, it is clear that justice is being done and local authorities, who have previously enjoyed poor conditions, are forced to return to a reduction in sustainable public expenditure. If, on the contrary, we go to implement yet another linear cut, we will also penalize those virtuous local authorities that are no longer able to guarantee the minimum services essential to citizens. And the feeling that you are reading the report attached to the Note exam is that this will be the choice of the Government in the next few days, when it will present the Document of Economics and Finance for the coming year. It is a choice that is irresponsible, unjust and incorrect, which will certainly make it difficult for many mayors to manage their own municipality, denying the citizens what is due to them. Another negative point in the report, which has not been sufficiently highlighted, is related to exports. According to the documentation provided to us, there was an increase in exports to Russia of 11.3% in 2013. Well, in the first period of 2014, between January and July, a reduction of 8.5 percentage points is noted. This shows that the sanctions against Russia, taken by Italy and the European Community, are not painless, but are indeed very worrying. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I should like to finish with one comment: we have the feeling that this document is also the result of unjustified optimism and is built on the usual optimistic talk of the President-in-Office of the Council, on prestige games and accounting tricks, and that the real economy is not improving, that unemployment will not fall and that economic conditions are becoming increasingly difficult. Beyond all these numbers, there is unfortunately a certainty: there is an increasing number of people, families and businesses who are in serious difficulty. We fear, therefore, that the country will be in desperate conditions, when the basic question will be answered, that it is no longer when there will be growth or if thanks to the measures of the government you will finally have a reversal in the trend of GDP, with the increase that we all hope. The basic question is: how long will this government be able to deceive the country, selling smoke and false promises? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u69	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak quickly in order to launch a small alarm to the Government, for technical and legal forcing, hidden between the folds of the annexes and the tables - in particular on page 98 of Annex 3, of the Update Note - on the subject of the passage of large ships to Venice. This concern concerns not only Venice, but also international public opinion and even UNESCO and refers to a force for the insertion of a new large channel within the lagoon - an absurd, enormous and devastating work - of which the port authority of Venice becomes bearer. The project is presented as the only procedure in objective law, with a simplified special EIA. Apart from the lack of title and the conflict of interests evident for the harbour authority, attention must be paid, because we find ourselves at the limits of the illegality also criminal, in the wake of what has already happened for the criminal events of the MOSE and the consortium Venezia Nuova. In particular, I remember that the Government has certainly made a positive step, recognizing between the participations for the safety of the traffics of the great ships, not only the cited work, but also all the plans that have been introduced - one in particular, but also others - for the solution of the problem of the passage of the great ships. With this little alarm I would like to point out to the Government the commitment that has already been made in this House, following motions and the agenda of the Senate on the transit of large ships in the Venice lagoon of February 2014, which concerned the complete and in-depth examination of all the projects that would be presented to solve this problem, in the utmost transparency, with the guarantee of a public comparison and reporting of all the activities. So let's tell the government to pay attention, because with this technical-juridical force, there is the risk of a disaster, which will certainly be condemned by international levels and in particular by UNESCO, as already announced publicly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u70	Madam President, I will focus in particular on the part concerning the annex infrastructure of the DEF, because this is the only document attached to the DEF, wanted by the objective law and represents the state of the art of strategic infrastructure in the country. We continue to talk often about constructive lots, which are a kind of aberration, because we spend money and do not put into practice works. If we keep thinking like this, we don't get any goals, except to spend money; however, as the famous publicity in which you saw that little man running around with the bag and saying: "The economy turns with you" is another mental aberration that we should defeat, it will be the case to return to the functional lots and not to the constructive lots. I am also saying this because, when we talk about strategic infrastructure, we should remember that there are 240 billion planned works against a hypothetical allocation (i.e. funds available) of 120 billion; it would therefore be appropriate to check whether those amounts are there, but we can seriously doubt that. Moreover, when we talk about strategic infrastructure, once again we have 200 works planned and probably not all of them are useful, since some of them were thought of in 1968 (so to give an example, Livorno-Civitavecchia), so we have to ask ourselves if these works are still useful. Is it still helpful to do things you thought many years ago? Do they still make sense, a goal? Do they serve the country? If instead of building these great works we realize small infrastructures, of which we speak, but which are not well defined? Why don't we think about doing so many little things? Maybe so we increase the number of people employed, since we all know that, at the same cost, by doing a series of small works rather than a large infrastructure, we increase the number of people employed. Of course, small works must be placed in a general framework, because we have to spend our money well. So when we see these things, we keep wondering where we want to go. The problem is: how do we spend the money we say we have to spend? The impression is that we always spend them badly and unfortunately this makes us feel bad. Why don't we talk about the fact that some works are being challenged by citizens? In these classrooms, and even outside them, there has been talk of the public debate, but every time we tabled an amendment to introduce it into the contract code, it has always been rejected. Why don't you do these things, since everyone says they want to do them? Maybe this way we can save time and money. It would be helpful to think that you could save time and money to see if some works are shared by the population and if they really make sense. That's always the problem. We talk about matters without knowing what we are talking about and, above all, we tend to spend our resources very badly. Moreover, why do we not check the rules contained in the so-called Italy release decree, which is also taken up by the DEF? Finally, Madam President, why is CIPE's opinion on the works not provided for, since they are financed by CIPE? Why are there not the views of the State-Regions Conference, which should represent the convergence of intentions? We have to try to change our approach if we want to change this country. We learn to spend well and not just spend. This should be done, quite simply. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u71	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u72	Madam President, in this House, colleagues have, as it is their duty, extended themselves to the technical aspects of the Economic and Financial Document, which, if memory does not deceive me, was introduced as usual by Minister Stammati and repeated more by those who have followed each other over time for the sole purpose of preventing the law of stability (then called the financial law) from being an assault on diligence. There was therefore a need to set the general deadlines within which the budget of the State subsequently approved on a proposal from the Government, i.e. the financial law (which, I remind myself, is the only one that self-finances itself), could not suffer the strangles and appetites of the parliamentarians. That this exercise, among other things, must continue in time, is the son not of Stammati or of the will to make the assault on diligence, but of the pervicacious and presumptuous work that the Governments in this cryptosocialist state continue to propine us having the fatal presumption of predicting the outlets of the economy. I know that Deputy Minister Morando is a man of good reading. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'll do what I can. D'ANNA (GAL). Having reviewed the thesis on economic constructivism, I ask Deputy Minister Morando: but do you really want to be overwhelmed by the laughter of the gods? Do you really want to predict the course of history in the coming months? Do you still have, like your predecessors and I hope not as your successors, the idea that, through a series of rates set in a Note, we can predict the developments of our economy, which is ganghered and succumbs not only to economic factors, but also to the impositions of this new Cerbero, which is the European Economic Community to which we are accountable? I don't want to be a professor here: I'm a biologist, I'm just a fan of political economy. I do not want to disturb the concepts of cosmos and taxis, that is, spontaneous order and constructed order, but I would like to say to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, whose intellectual honesty I esteem, that the problem is not an extra thief or a less thief, an extra contract or a less contract: the problem is that the State must get out of the economy. And you know that well, as I know, Deputy Minister, because the social order, according to Hayek, is realized when the predictions reach the goals. I call on you - because you are the one at the moment to be the exce homo - to find a single Economic and Financial Programming Document that has stifled the forecast. Maybe he was close. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Nobel laureates for the economy have never been awarded because they have planned an economic cycle, but because they have studied it and explained it ex post, drawing in some cases algorithms or laws with which they can try not to make the same mistakes in the future. So, what are we talking about today? We are talking about the same document of economy and finance (DEF) that has been presented to us, figure less, six or seven months ago, in which only the numbers have changed, and unfortunately they have got worse. Because those famous predictions, fallacies like all the forecasts of a constructivist state, that wants to build the social order through the taxis that is artificial order, the imposition, the obligation, have turned out fallacious as these will also be. I do not want to grieve the excellent Morando, who is there to take our criticism, but I can assure you that if instead of Deputy Minister Morando there was Domineddio, it could not solve in any way the problem of predicting the outlet of the course of the economy. Whoever tries to do this in man's history is overwhelmed by the laughter of the gods, that is, is lied to in history and economy. But then, what should we say to Deputy Minister Morando? We must make a different reasoning, between people a little more serious, without doing the profession of opponents, i.e. criticizing the work of the Government. Is it possible that forty years of social planning never caught the mark? Yes, it is possible, because social and economic planning itself is flawed. Colleagues, I'd like to make you a part of something. Von Hayek states that human knowledge is so dispersed in society that there is neither a collective entity (in this case the State) nor a single individual who is able to know everything that the mass of individuals knows in order to predict and plan well in advance the well-being and happiness of individuals. So what do we want tonight from Deputy Minister Morando? May he make us the prediction, from here to six months, of what he himself and his predecessors have not known nor can they know because it is ontologically impossible. What can we tell Deputy Minister Morando, then? That we must go towards liberalism, that we must stop arming programming documents, that we must stop with the constructivist hybrid - as you will know better than I, the hybrid, in Greek tragedies, was the offense that was done to fate - because Deputy Minister Morando and his predecessors when they analyze the data and have the fatal presumption of being able to develop them for the future bring offense not to fate, but to an entity that is called free market. The prices aren't fixed by the government. The economy can be helped by the government, but it cannot be addressed. The government must not tell us where the economy goes, it must tell us what are the basic measures that can help individuals - not society, of which the economist von Mises called into question existence - to achieve their purpose. But what seems to be a show of economic academy is actually the essence of the nature of the state. The state can't program anything, it must be an entity called to support the inclinations of individuals. What does the state have to do? Cutting taxes, facilitating businesses, making sure that the famous infrastructure and reforms are implemented, some of which even think they can calculate the positive impact on the economy. And here we end up in the tarot world, dear Deputy Minister, because electoral reform will not have great repercussions, constitutional reform, if and when it comes, with the closure of the Senate will not have great repercussions. It would be better to reform the participants and close those about 6,000 participants who make about forty billions of debt a year and who have 30,000-40,000 parasites, former fucked politicians, pseudo experts who "pappano" every month on the board of directors laute prebende in order not to anticipate and do anything. The jobs act then - this bovarismo also in the names -, the document on the job, is a proxy to the government and so it is still in mind of the. So, what do we expect for the next few months? When I hear someone saying that we have to calculate the impact of the reforms that have been made, I wonder what reforms that have been made can have, in the medium and short term, an impact on the general state of the economy. I say this to myself: in the name of God, remove your hands from the economy. Do what you have to do. Do few things and release the energies that still exist in Italian society. Let us not get lost, dear friends of the 5 Star Movement: while putting a carabiniere for every citizen and then a financier for every carabiniere in this general police state, let us not solve the problem of the economy. Wanted the sky to be as simple as you imagine it to be! It's not like that. For a market economy, there is a need for a minimum state, which does not mean reduced, but authoritative, letting others do, to those who have an interest in doing what must be done: if interest is lacking in those who do them, things are not done according to the criteria that the economy imposes on a company and a society so that they are opulent and flourishing. It's all wrong. I say this modestly, not to criticize your approach to the problem. In principle, I would be against the income of citizenship, because we turn young people into pensioners, but it can be a tool to start more and better spending capacity than those who do not have this capacity. But we do this with public debt, which increases every six months by about EUR 70 billion, on which interest is borne. I have come to say that we will vote on this document, Mr Deputy Minister, son of the six pack, of the dual pack of all these beautiful words. Indeed, if there were a political genius such as those of 50 years ago, if Alcide De Gasperi were there, he would appear in Brussels and say that the rules that we gave ourselves or that were imposed upon us at the time of our entry into the European Community are exotic and we cannot maintain them: the only reform that we promise you, if you print more money because our crisis is a monetary crisis, is to reform the state and bring it back to that level of minimal decency and honesty, as it was conceived. Remember, the state is a nineteenth-century concept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL). In conclusion, Mr Vice-Minister, I would ask you not to bring these documents anymore because you, unlike your colleagues, are a successful economist. You don't wear these pieces of paper anymore that don't do any good. [[Applause from the LAG, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u75	DE PIN (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice Minister, Renzi had reassured the Italians before the holidays, saying that in September there would be a restart with a bang. Now, instead, is introduced the Note of update of the DEF with a revision to the decrease of the estimates on the performance of the Italian economy for the year in course and for 2015 regarding the forecasts formulated in April. The credibility of the entire Executive is clear: the growth assumed in the DEF was already moderate, but now we are in a recession with deflation the worst scenario for our economy. If we combine unemployment with levels that have never been seen in the last 40 years, with the closure of thousands of companies that are no longer able to cope with the crisis, we are in a dramatic situation. In the Note, the Government admits that the entire euro area has deteriorated: wouldn't it be necessary to reverse the course so far adopted? Should not budgetary constraints be relaxed or even eliminated in order to enable investment and domestic demand to recover? Over the course of these years it has been said that the end of the crisis was now at the door and that the exit from the tunnel was imminent, but to admit that I have sinned for excessive optimism, in my opinion, is reductive. Imposing rigour in such a context runs counter to all economic dictates. The recession so far endured is not only a consequence of the financial crisis that broke out in the United States in 2007, which then reverberated in the European Union, but is mainly the result of wrong policies. It is not the only uncertainty that has reduced the propensity for household consumption or investment for businesses, as stated in the Update Note to the DEF. This example alone would prove it. Last September, the ECB intervened again, both by deciding on a further reduction in rates and by starting the first of the eight announced refinancing operations to the banking system, amounting to €82.6 billion. Nevertheless, the credit crunch practiced by the banks is still high. The huge resources made available so generously have not resulted in an increase in liquidity for businesses and households. It is therefore demonstrated once again that banks think first of all to secure their balance sheets that have been disassembled by years of creative finance, rather than providing funding for the productive economy and household consumption. The situation in which the country is located needs more courageous choices; we have lost too much time. After France's decision not to comply with the 3% constraint, we would have expected a clearer stance from the Italian Government. Renzi, on the other hand, makes a big voice in Italy, while in Europe he freaks over a pat on Merkel's shoulders. It is now established that the announced structural reforms do not produce the expansive effects that the Government had anticipated, and moreover the traditional contribution of exports is hampered by absurd sanctioning policies towards Russia. It is not enough to say that the stagnation of our country is accompanied by the decrease in growth in the other countries of the Eurozone: it is a thin consolation for the millions of Italians who are exhausted and the answers given so far are clearly insufficient. Since the beginning of the 2009 financial crisis, Italian government debt relative to GDP has increased by over 20 percentage points: this is an astonishing increase, if we consider the sacrifices that Italians have had to suffer in recent years. The sustainability of our public debt is also called into question by many parties. These very days, the publication of an analysis of a company has shown that, instead of decreasing, the debt is destined to increase. Over the next five years, public administration spending will increase by a total of EUR 40 billion and government expenditure on pensions, salaries, intermediate consumption and current expenditure will increase, while investment expenditure is still on the stake. We continue to blame the productivity of the Italian system and thanks to this refrain are sacrificed the rights of the workers. No change, on the other hand, is required of the banks that have caused this crisis: it seems that the possibility of separating the business banks from the commercial ones seems forever to be set aside and indecent speculative bubbles continue to be tolerated, which now take the path of the public debt securities of the countries of the south of Europe. All this is creating a vicious circle no longer sustainable by the people affected by the fury of the so-called markets. Another great inaccuracy contained in the DEF Update Note is that poor productivity has weakened the ability of our companies to compete in the international scenario. That's not true. Italian companies were able to survive thanks to export. Do we want our companies to compete with Chinese factories? The answer is obvious: it is impossible. Unfortunately, once again, the conclusions reached are disappointing. The government will never be able to reconcile the rigidity of the balance of the budget with policies to revive demand. The 80 euros are there to show how deceptive it is to create expectations of economic recovery with these measures: it should be evident to everyone by now that they have had more electoral flavor than the search for consensus than the stimulus of domestic demand. To conclude, we are once again asking for sacrifices to the Italians in exchange for a hypothetical improvement in the short or long term. Unfortunately, this document too is full of purposes that will not solve the pitiful situation in which our country is located. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u77	Madam President, this DEF would have deserved a more in-depth analysis on the part of Parliament because of its significant peculiarity: I am referring to the fact that for the first time a DEF, more specifically the Update Note to the DEF had the validation of the Parliamentary Budget Office. We are talking about a validation on which Parliament has focused, asking for the same to be complete, that is to say that it includes both analysis and judgement on trends, and analysis and judgement on programming. This has happened and the Parliamentary Budget Office has expressed itself on both sides, albeit in a concise manner, while perhaps the judgment would have deserved a more analytical presentation. It must be said, however, that that judgment is supported by a methodological analysis, which the Parliamentary Budget Office very correctly deposited yesterday afternoon at the hearing. From this point of view, in my view, Parliament is therefore successful, in the sense that it has achieved everything, including the methodology underlying the opinion expressed by the Parliamentary Budget Office. Precisely for this reason, that analysis probably deserved a broader examination by the Parliamentary Commission and, in particular, by the House. I am sure that, by improving the timetable in the near future, it will be possible to analyse this important document more promptly. I only remind myself that this Update Note, apart from all judgments and considerations, has a fundamental point, namely the forecast of the balances within which the law of stability will have to move: therefore, the balances remain fixed, after Parliament has approved the Update Note to the DEF. It is therefore an extremely important function which deserves further consideration by Parliament, and more so because we are preparing to adopt, by an absolute majority this evening, also the resolution on the request for a time lag to reach the so-called'structural budget gap'. From this point of view, it is easier because there is almost scholasticity to predict the possibility of deviation, since one of the forecasts is the state of economic recession. Unfortunately, we are also in a technical recession because there have been two quarters of negative GDP. On the subject of the DEF, I believe that two issues should be considered positively: the government openly chooses, in a transparent way, to carry out an economic manoeuvre of an expansive nature. The fundamental figure of this DEF is the difference between the expected deficit, before the government's action of 2.2% and the deficit expected after the government's action of 2.9. The government, that is, has the political courage to pose a problem: I believe that at the moment maintaining a restrictive maneuver is less effective than making it an expansive one. You may or may not agree. Theories, by the way, are varied. There is everything about this, but the Government of the Italian Republic chooses a path and bets on this to resume the growth of the Italian economy. It is a positive fact that certainly highlights a courage and a choice of field. It is believed, that through an expansionary maneuver the economy is restored. Of course, among the mixes of expansive policies, the government chooses the one that maintains the "legally" fundamental bond, which is the 3% which, as you know, is the one originally foreseen by the Maastricht Treaty. So the government says it wants to make an expansive maneuver, but it remains within the 3% limit, which is the original one provided for in the Maastricht Treaty. This is a clear and transparent choice which, in my opinion, deserves appreciation. The other choice should also be appreciated. I, too, agree with what Deputy Minister Morando said about the comments, the amazing media that we are used to and that are always seen by those who have not read the papers we are dealing with. We are unfortunately those simpletons who read some papers before we can express ourselves: we will be a bit demodé, but we want to continue to be. It is an equally transparent choice. It is clearly written - this time we should be close to the actual prediction - that we move from +0.8 to -0.3 In other words, we have the transparent courage to say that the Italian economy is in recession. On this I agree: the time is over when miraculous promises can be made. I therefore read no one's statements, but no one's. I read the documents and observe that a transparent choice has been made. It is true that it was made on the basis of the statistical results communicated by public and private bodies, world, European and national, but a choice, undoubtedly of courage that meets the demands of Senator D'Anna, where the forecast, in my opinion, is maintained in a framework of reliability that stands at around 0.1 or 0.2 per cent more, but the range within which it moves is that. There is an operation that I have already seen done in which we define the framework in which to move. I remember predicting further deviations even during the examination of the stability bill. On the other hand, we are now faced with a document of economics and finance that sets balances on the basis of a forecast framework that I believe to be reliable even if certainly not precise and perhaps tending to worsen. I think that these two choices deserve great appreciation. There is some concern and this naturally depends on the maneuver. There are two elements of concern and, as far as I am concerned, they are not surprising: one of the elements is substantial and lies in the little consideration in the economic framework foreseen by the DEF on the so-called spending review. The Government (and also this, in my opinion, is a positive fact) says that the maneuvers that have been made today to be continued need in-depth and differentiated analyses such that in the short term they are not of immediate importance. I was convinced of this and I am still convinced because - you will excuse me a little pride in saying it - I saw maneuvers that have seriously set the score, done by past governments and, whatever it may be said, were made by a government that was in office in 2010 and 2011, when the famous linear cuts were carried out, perhaps criticized in various ways, which certainly led to the result that led the Italian deficit to be equal to 2.2 trends. A deficit completely distant from all other European partners, except Germany. Those closest to us have a deficit of almost twice as much as we had. That is why the government chooses the way it chooses and, in my opinion, chooses it in a very appreciable way. Although it does not lead to miraculous effects, the spending review should not be overlooked, as punctual analyses can still be carried out. Even in this case, if you allow me, I say quietly that it is better not to concentrate all these things in one room but in various, asking results so that concrete and not extraordinary and pyrotechnic effects can be achieved. I am sure that a serious analysis of expenditure commitments made at some point in the year could lead to results of some interest. There is no spending review so be careful not to go from a spending review considered the panacea of all evils to its total abandonment. It is not fair either vision. It is something serious that in Italy deserves continuity: keeping the accounts in place in my opinion is always essential and useful for growth. The second question: I apologise to everyone but I have only been able to read the first two pages of the measure. However, I promise to do so. On the second page, after the presentations, there is the general picture and that is what matters because it is what Europe sees. Indeed, I have taken it from the excellent, valuable work of the Senate Budget Service that deserves appreciation, taken up very punctually also by Senator Sangalli. In a note on the margins of the general picture of the second page again it is expected for 2016 and 2017 the use of a clause of increase of the VAT for very considerable figures. We are talking about 12.4 billion in 2016, 17.8 billion in 2017 and 21.4 billion in 2018. It is true that we start from 2016, so we have time to avoid it. It is true that, as has always been said in the course of the debate in the Commission, a serious debate, far from all the media thrills about the actual impact of possible increases in indirect taxes compared to reductions in direct taxes, is all to be done in Italy and I hope that the Senate Commission or any other committee of the House will do it seriously, even with the help of the parliamentary budgetary office. Therefore, I am not intimidated or concerned about the matter in itself, but those safeguard clauses can be an instrument of a possible tax increase in 2016 and therefore we must take into account that we work in this direction. I have the feeling, in fact, that the safeguard clause planned for 2014 is incorporated in the transition from 2.2 to 2.9 that makes the government and therefore actually works. We must commit ourselves to ensuring that those safeguard clauses are at least as small as possible or revised in a reduction of other steps in the tax burden, by making an operation of truth towards the Italians. One last comment is on a proposal that I am putting forward, although it is certainly crude in that it needs tools and impact assessments, but that convinces me. In fact, the Government believes that the state of crisis should be attacked by relaunching aggregate demand. I am convinced that the crisis is so serious in Italy that, in addition to the demand, it is necessary to recover the bottleneck of the supply. Italy must start growing again: if it doesn't grow, we can't respect any rules, let's face it, and to do so we need to intervene on the side of the offer. I am not, however, because the State intervenes on the side of the offer as a public authority. I believe that it is private individuals who make the growth. On this point I agree with Senator D'Anna, but that the State can intervene. With regard to investments in technology and research, in particular in advanced technology research segments, those of course with greater added value: we have large companies in Italy, which are also part of the State, which can seriously do research. You will excuse me for the harshness, but I believe little in those researches done in universities where there are four researchers, while in America there are 40,000, in China 400,000: I have a clear feeling that there is probably a certain inequality. We could then think of civilistic forms such as capital increases, with the possibility of voting that do not give the State any form of authoritative character (we have foreseen some recently, of which we could discuss) that bind the subscription of this capital to development and research, reducing the weight of the debts that some of these societies have set a deadline for the resale of shares, according to civilistic rules that give the sense of a presence that really qualifies the recovery of competitiveness that is the drama of Italy. I am most concerned about competitiveness. With 100 competitiveness in 2000, our partners' competitiveness is about 130 for the best and 115 for the worst, and our competitiveness is still at 100. We must have the courage to tell everyone: Parliament must use the megaphone to say that this is the real problem in Italy: it is not competitive in the total productivity of factors. That is the basic point that the state intervenes with civilistic tools promoting research. I am referring to research because it is the most important factor, but it could also apply to infrastructure investments; I am thinking of infrastructure investments on energy, one of the very serious bottlenecks in our country, another pillar of the Government, which says it is going to expand but activating structural reforms. Many of us, but not so much, think that the Senate is also a structural reform; but I think that the jobs act is (I said it in English as it is written in the newspapers, even if I did not understand well what it is, that will certainly explain my group leader Sacconi). I am truly convinced that this is one of the truly structural reforms; on the part of demand it could be structural reforms: the recapitalisation and ACE are an example of this. Today Deputy Morando was talking about minibonds. The newspapers don't talk about good things in Italy; then, let's talk about it here. It will be a room between intimate but in which you can and must make these observations, which have already given good results. These ideas deserve to be deepened, not improvised, they must be seen in all their aspects, but I think it is also time to take action to increase the competitiveness of the system. In this context, a positive evaluation of the DEF would become much more immediately an accident, but in the meantime we must appreciate what has been said and we must all work together to ensure that these things are followed by legislative and administrative measures. [[Applause from the NCD and PD Groups and the Divine and Di May Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u78	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u79	Madam President, food frenzy is an unscientific but effective definition to represent the behaviour of sharks in the presence of food. With this expression I was explained what happens in these classrooms on the occasion of the approval of the DEF and the law of stability: food frenzy, a bump of appetites that even makes the shark lose control. Here I want to retrace an emblematic story where appetites and loss of reasonableness emerge. After the shipwreck of the Costa Concordia to the Island of Giglio, the Ministers of the environment and the infrastructures prohibited the transit in the lagoon of Venice of the great ships from cruise, that they arrive to near Piazza San Marco; a prohibition that remained suspended however waiting for alternative solutions. The alternative was very clear: if we still want to carry ships from over 300 meters to station with chimneys lit close to the historic center of Venice we must dig 140 meters wide channels, 10 meters deep, 5 or more kilometers long, destabilize ancient islands building artificial dams. If we want to take the danger and pollution out of the lagoon we can identify as alternative solutions external ports of call, accessible with smaller panoramic means and compatible with this world wonder. An honest government would immediately start a cognitive survey, launched an international project competition for Venice. It would attract the best designers from all over the world and take political responsibility at the end of this choice. None of that. On the other hand, appetites were unleashed; the spotlight turned only on the most dangerous options for the lagoon: a unique environment in the world protected by special laws and UNESCO; but, by chance, they were also the most expensive solutions or the most welcome to those who had local interests. In this way we have witnessed the sadly retracing of the stages with the same styles and modes that we have already seen for the MOSE. A series of forced forces in administrative acts has surreptitiously built a preferential route to the excavation of a 140 meters wide channel, deep 10, in a lagoon environment that has an average water veil of half a meter to take the ships exactly where they are now. We have seen attributed to the Harbour office the identification of the plan to adopt, when the Harbour has only the competence in matter of navigation techniques and marine traffic. The Minister abdicated his responsibilities to a decree of the Harbour, to hastily insert the desired work into the law-objective. I'm talking about Minister Lupi. Here in the Senate we immediately blocked this and voted almost unanimously - the fact is clear - that on Venice we cannot adopt simplified environmental impact assessments and that there must be precise conditions on which to make a preliminary strategic evaluation of all available projects. If necessary, the Ministry must take charge of the necessary studies. It is the most protected environment in the world: common sense says so, says UNESCO that now threatens to remove Venice from the monuments, a World Heritage Site. That's what the special laws for Venice say. Well, two months after that vote in the Senate, in a unified conference on 16 April, that document was distorted in an unacceptable way and the excavation of the twisted channel was incorporated into the objective law. Today we find in the table in the annex to the DEF Update Note the financing - as it happens - of just 140 million, which is exactly the estimated cost of the project. This is a worldwide disgrace. As for me, it seems clear that in the lagoon there are sharks. Who can, who wants to help the local population, the whole world, keep them away. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u80	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the update note of the DEF 2014 under consideration is proof - if ever there were any need - of the way in which this Government has shaped its activities and especially its relationship with public opinion, which is then the prevailing issue. It is, therefore, a double level: one is the one of the offensives with shots of spotlights and announcements; the other is that of the retreats in soothing, in the absolute silence. As they say, time is gallant man, but in this case there was no need to wait much for someone to discover that those of April were more stubborn hopes than economic forecasts. So, today someone discovers - but we at Forza Italia had already done so and today we can say "rebabate" - that the real scenario that is emerging for the next few years worsens and worsens its dark colors. In a nutshell, GDP for the current year will fall by 0.3%, instead of rising by 0.8, while GDP for 2015 will rise by 0.5 instead of 1.3. But the percentages make everything a little abstract and sometimes it's hard for us to understand what we're talking about. In money it means leaving about 15 billion for this year and over 30 billion for the next three years. The debt situation substantially worsens. The reduction in its relationship with GDP is still postponed to 2016 and the apparent improvement in this ratio is mainly due to the new accounting rules, as stated in the Note and as few, however, recall. In their absence (there had been no new accounting rules), that relationship would have been significantly worse than the one estimated in April with the previous rules. Today he would have put us in front of a very dramatic fact. But what happened from April to today? Is it just a cyclical weakening? Is it the introduction of new accounting rules? This, but not only. I believe that the new forecasts are the result of the contradictions inherent in that double level I was talking about at the beginning: on the one hand, the spotlights, on the other hand, the withdrawals. But the markets recognize both the spotlights and the retreats in thin air. The worsening of this picture is in entrusting the communication with the task of describing a situation that is not in line with reality, a necessity that is also reflected in this document. Simply read on page 19 where you prefer to correct the definition of the current situation of "recession," which - as the president of the Commission budget Azzollini has just explained very well - is technically recession, allowed from the technical point of view and recognized by the European Union. The worsening then lies in not speaking that language of truth that President Azzollini also recalled: an example for all is the reduction of the tax wedge for workers. I remember well that the so famous and infamous 80 euros, with which the elections were won, were thought of by the government as a tax credit and were therefore included in the lower revenues. It is a choice that has been explained to us and then pervicaciously proposed everywhere, in the press and on television, by Minister Padoan and President Renzi, as we all remember. Well, after the beauty of five months (including August), we come to find that it is the same Update Note that admits, as if nothing had been, that the reduction of the wedge has been accounted for as higher spending on transfers to families, rather than as less tax revenue. We had highlighted this during the examination of the so-called competitiveness decree, but the battle that the government carried out in those days served to dampen the scope of the reliefs coming from several parts: you will remember well the controversy between the President of the Council and the Budget Service of the Chamber and Senate on this topic. So we find that the operation, which was doomed to a lesser income, was actually a higher cost, that is, a debt operation. We discover then that the tax pressure, in very light and involuntary contraction compared to the DEF of April, has a very different course, because it ends with an opposite forecast: before it was expected to fall, while now it is clearly increasing. This year we are still at a tax burden of 43.3% of GDP, but we will go up again: next year we will go up to 43.4% and then 43.6 percent, and then maybe go down again. However, President Azzolini explained that the safeguard clauses on the increase in indirect taxation will probably produce much worse results. Finally, the deterioration is due to the adoption of measures which are not adapted to the seriousness of the situation. I remember that the 80 euros already had to have a significant effect on demand, but they are late to be noticed. But perhaps the government was aware of all this, if in the competitiveness decree it associated with this measure an impact on prudent GDP, equal to 0.1%, also for next year? And what about the past debts of public administration? It was said that they would all be paid in a very short time, even by the date on which St. Matthew is celebrated, in order to push the economy and recover resources, even in terms of VAT revenue, as was rightly pointed out. But today we are still a long way from welding all the past, as we read in the tables of the Update Note to our examination. In the end, what did we pay for those past debts? Among the various operations of successive governments, we are at 31 billion euros, compared to a stock of delayed payments that we know varies between 90 and 100 billion euros. This means that companies continue to finance the state and not the opposite, as President Azzolini hoped in his speech, in a courageous proposal that looks ahead, but that raises important questions. In order to support that leverage intervention that President Azzollini imagines, we must imagine and rewrite the rules by which the Deposit and Loan Fund can intervene, where an economic or industrial policy decides to support a particular process, making itself guarantor of a financial exposure. This is a very important scenario, but we must be able to open with knowledge of the data, serenity of judgment, a little courage, but also great prudence: let us never forget - never! - that to support the commitment of the Cassa deposits and loans is the postal savings, that is the money of the Italians, that once again would go to finance the interventions of the State and not the contrary, as apparently it may seem. The rules, highly prudential, used so far by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, have guaranteed respect for that balance; let's hope that it continues this way and we certainly support all the normative innovations that can help us to have an extra instrument, but in compliance above all with that saving that amounts to over 400 billion euros per year, as the managing director of Poste Italiani recalled today in his own audition in the Senate; we must consider that saving a fundamental element of guarantee, not only for the balances and balances that we approve today with the Update Note in title, but for that support to the economy that we hope can come from a market that takes back seriously. I am therefore afraid that that safeguard clause on VAT and other direct taxes for about 50 billion in the three years 2016-2018 will instead be a tombstone on our economy, if we are not able to really save where we have to; and, as we have already said today in the debate in the Commission, we can do it well if we can understand that the effects of spending review must be decisive and in support of our economy, not destructive for it. The centralization of spending cannot take place on the skin of so many small and medium-sized enterprises, which would be excluded from the fate of cartels that in our country would end up canceling the great effort that many small enterprises make on the territory to continue to stay afloat. We will see in the end how the zeroing of the deficit to 2017, again postponing the consolidation of the public accounts on the shoulders of the new generations, will be a further burden or may be an opportunity. We will see how much of this debt will leave us the Governments not elected by the Italians, like the Renzi Executive, and we will see if, in addition to the transparency of this Note, which is certainly a positive fact, we will also be able to glimpse the hope for a country that must return to growth. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u82	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u83	Madam President, first of all, I consider it important that many of the speakers have recognised that, both in the DEF Update Note and tomorrow with the introduction of the Stability Act, the stakes are very high. I would summarize it in the following way: on the one hand, the relationship of our country first and foremost with Europe and the international markets, on the other hand, the need for an economy like ours to rediscover a path of growth, after an almost uninterrupted recession lasting three years. I would therefore like to make very brief comments on these two points. Several times in this House we have drawn up a sort of diagnosis of why the dramatic crisis experienced by Europe and Italy has been misinterpreted by the economic policy authorities and Brussels, exchanging the causes with the effects, applying the wrong medicines, that is an excessive dose of fiscal austerity, as we know, with the results that are before everyone's eyes. In terms of therapies, therefore, there is a need for a deep discontinuity with respect to the past and I think that the game is more open than ever. I think this has an important implication for our country. Italy's anchoring to the euro countries and in some way the fact that it occupies a central position for changing European policies remains crucial. It seems important to me that there has been some convergence in the debate today in recognizing that it would not be fair, as others continue to argue, the idea that the Government had to unilaterally adopt much more expansionary measures than has already been done in the Update Note to the DEF, so as to break through the 3% ceiling of nominal public deficits. It has been recalled that with a debt stock such as ours, a break of this kind, to some extent resounding, it would mean to face certain sentences for double infringement and this would already be a negative result. Let's ask ourselves how our country could face the obvious reaction of the financial markets, in already difficult conditions and given the prospect that new turbulence will come once the Federal Reserve will have inaugurated the new course of monetary policy by raising interest rates. It is not a question of whether it is a question, but simply a question of when it will happen, putting an end to this limitless liquidity phase. So I think the government was right, from this point of view, to choose to stay within 3%. I come to the second point: the content of the measures for the revival of growth, which, as we know, will be adopted by the law of stability, already approved tomorrow by the Government. As we know, there is a proposal in the Note to postpone both the objectives on balance of the structural budget and on the debt rule, as a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. Of course it is to be shared since with an economy in recession for three years it would be to say the least necessary to respect both parameters, depressing even more the course of the economy and paradoxically making public finances even more unsustainable. Of course, however, the slowdown in the structural rebalancing process serves if these margins of manoeuvre are used well, effectively, to boost growth and increase the potential for economic development. In order to be able to give an opinion on this, we must wait for the contents of the manoeuvre, which according to the latest indiscretions should even reach the value of 30 billion, of which 11 measures financed by increasing the public deficit. What I would like to stress is that for the effectiveness of an expansive maneuver, such as the one that is expected, the issue of financial cover becomes decisive, because, apart from the increase in the deficit, many of the measures will be financed predominantly by revisions and reductions in expenditure. It is therefore clear that the nature and content of this review will play a very important role not only for the effectiveness but for the credibility of this manoeuvre. Above all, they must be structural measures, which must encourage a virtuous recomposition of how we spend our resources. Above all they will have to rediscover what was the original meaning of the spending review: not so much or not only reductions and cuts, but a re-allocation of spending towards higher return jobs, for growth and a positive macroeconomic impact on the economy. It goes without saying, therefore, that if generic cuts are made more or less linear or more or less camouflaged, this will be particularly negative. I would like to raise a third point. In order to revive growth we need two orders of intervention today: short-term ones, useful in providing macro-economic support to domestic demand for a long time in free fall (the talk of consumption and domestic investments); and structural reforms for competitiveness, as supported by President Azzollini, therefore measures that can affect structural weaknesses that have long limited the capacity of our economy to offer, and therefore the potential product. 19.58 p.m. (PALEopti Warriors followed). They are two sets of measures both necessary at this stage, in some way complementary, because they affect the economic growth capacity; they must be launched in parallel because they must support each other. To me it seems that this overall perspective, this need for interaction between the two orders of measures is still little present in the DEF Update Note. The hope is that it will be better represented in the law of stability and, above all, that it will be contained in the measures that will be launched, otherwise we will be able to find ourselves with a macroeconomic impact once again disappointing. Let me conclude with a final remark concerning a proposal which, in some way, for many years has emerged cyclically in Italian politics: I am referring to the proposal of the TFR in pay envelope. Let me say, as far as I can have considered such a proposal at other stages, that this is a wrong idea, which would have a very negative impact on the future retirement of a large number of workers. Nor is it true to support such an idea as to suggest that it could serve to revive consumption: that will not be the case. There is evidence and a number of studies showing how the effect could be relatively negligible. So the hope in this case is that such a measure can be postponed to better times. Of course, as I have pointed out, the measures of the Stability Act will be decisive and it is from these measures that we will understand how the link between the so-called inertial trend and the programmatic one will prove effective in order to be able to guarantee the transition of our economy towards a path of greater stability and above all of economic recovery. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u84	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that motion for a resolution No 100, signed by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Susta and Zeller, on the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 246 of 2012. On the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance Update Note, the Presidency also received the motions for resolutions No. 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators; No. 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators; No. 3, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta; No. 4, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators; No. 5, presented by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor only for a very brief speech in order to comment on a rich and complex debate, which would take a long time for precise answers. I think that the DEF Update Note takes into account the situation of our country and does so in a realistic way, even in the harshness of the numbers that make it up and which clearly recognize that the April forecasts, unfortunately, have deteriorated considerably over the year and that due to the exceptional nature of the event, Parliament and the European institutions are required to postpone the achievement of the balance of the budget by one year in structural terms. This is done in the context of an unusual transparency operation, validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office. I believe that this is the starting point for a proactive attitude. We are faced with a negative economic phase, which has lasted for several years now. The Government, rightly, considers it useful to measure itself concretely with the difficulty of building the modalities and proposals practicable to accompany the country in a path of recovery. For this to happen it is the interest of all to recover a sense of national sharing of the hardness of this challenge and interest of all to promote the achievement of the goals of return to the growth and change of the Country. That is why I hope that the majority's motions for resolutions will find the support not only of the majority itself, also to go to Europe stronger. We must necessarily put a policy for growth and reform into the policy of rigour. And here I think it would be really important to recover that dimension of national sharing to face and overcome this challenge. We have the conviction - and the motion for a resolution is there to demonstrate this - that the law of stability cannot be any ordinary law: it must contain this spirit, this desire to share, of course by supporting citizens' incomes, by reducing the tax burden on labour and investment and by implementing policies to revive all sectors. In particular, on the 80 euro bonus, which has been mentioned in many of the speeches, it should be pointed out, as shown by yesterday's hearing of ISTAT, that the maneuver has brought benefits to 97,000 poor families less than the base scenario. I shall conclude by saying that, if we read the DEF Update Note and the Report to Parliament in this key, if we commit ourselves and the whole country, starting with the Government, in this choir of action to make the law of stability the first step of a new policy, then we will have read the Document well in our examination and we will also have made a real contribution to our country. I say this in a convincing way: it is up to everyone to contribute to the restarting of a still and still country, because, if it remains so, it would be the families, businesses and future generations of our citizens to pay. And we can't really afford that. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u86	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the Update Note you wish to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u87	Mr President, the debate I have followed deserves a more detailed reply than the timing does allow me. For this reason, I will try to go to what I consider the essential, starting with the elimination of all the assessments that I had diligently pinpointed above the so-called truth of the data, which perhaps would suggest some reflection on the reasons for the prediction errors. However, there are specific focuss in the DEF that try to explain these elements as well. Maybe taking a look at them wouldn't be bad. Having said that, I shall confine myself, in order to underline the seriousness of the situation, to recalling a phrase that attracted the attention of the senators and, in particular, that of Senator Molinari. Yes, it is: traditionally, when you think of an economic tragedy, you think of the Great Depression of 1929. Well, for Italy, a few years after the beginning of the crisis, the loss of product that has been achieved is greater than that which was achieved in the Great Depression of 1929. We lost 9 points of product and lost 10 points of income per capita. I say this to reply to all those who said that in the Update Note there would be an underestimation of the gravity of the situation: the explicit reference to a situation more difficult than that of the post 1929 excludes any underestimation. The truth is that, precisely because the situation is so serious, without a turning point, the European dimension, first of all, and then the national dimension, the risk of a downward screwing between stagnation and deflation, is a real risk that we must try to face. In the light of this picture, both the unilateral analyses of the causes of the crisis and the consequent, and equally unilateral, strategies of solution appear insufficient. I am now referring to the controversy that, for brevity, I call between "offertists" and "questionists." The essence is that Italy, and, to a large extent, the euro area as a whole, has serious supply-side problems, almost all pre-existing to the great recession, and serious problems on the demand side with problems accentuated by the fiscal adjustment of these years (the element of which Senator Guerrieri Paleotti has last mentioned). To talk about the third leg of economic policy, on the other hand, experience has taught us that monetary policy has a significant role - and it is therefore absolutely good that it has taken a strongly expansive intonation - but it has limits in dealing with the crisis, because its interventions fail to guarantee resumptions if not of a purely cyclical nature: monetary policy, that is, cannot remove the root causes of the difficulty. Without any hybrid, I would like to say to Senator D'Anna, who has urged me in this direction, that it is therefore our task, in Italy and in Europe, to finally ensure a long phase of coherence - that there has never been - between structural reform policies, on the one hand, and expansive budgetary policies, on the other hand, on the part of those who can do them - and Italy, even if it is limited, can make them, as the Update Note clearly says, that they must be adopted at the same time, while monetary policy plays its part, assuming an expansive intonation. On the political side, we have been guilty of a delay, but now we are given a new opportunity: on the one hand, the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, on the other hand, that political process which has led European voters to play a role and to weigh on the appointment of the President of the Commission. This is an extraordinary political novelty, which also has consequences on the ground of the economic policy guidelines of the Community bodies, and a process which initiates the democratization of the Community institutions and thus makes it possible over time for the transfer of sovereignty which otherwise could not be applied to institutions not characterised by an adequate rate of democracy. For this set of considerations, the DEF Update Note is organised around three key pillars. The first is the European initiative of the Italian Government for the adoption of a policy of effective support for growth, first of all transforming into concrete investments financed by the European debt for the material and intangible infrastructure of Europe those 300 billion euros Juncker spoke of when he was appointed as new President of the Commission. We must move quickly from words to deeds: the words - let us understand - are very important, because, I repeat, they are the daughters of that new political process that I have already mentioned, but now we have to translate into political choices of investment selection. At this stage of defining projects to move from words to action on this problem, we intend to move towards achieving two objectives in particular. On the one hand, as Senator Azzollini said in his speech, investment should be preferred for the connections between energy networks, in order to build a real single energy market in Europe, which is a strategic solution, especially in the context of the current international geostrategic turbulence, on which I do not dwell, but which have enormous importance. On the other hand, we think that we need to invest in research with European capital, which is financed on the credit of Europe, because European research projects can enable all European countries, not only some, to compete in the knowledge society in which innovation - and technology in particular - is the key component of a strategy for growth. This is the first pillar: European policies. The second pillar is the decision to raise the 2015 net debt from 2.2% of the product, where it would go if we did nothing, to 2.9%, so as to confirm compliance with the 3% rule, but using 11.5 billion euros - 0.7% of the product, i.e. the difference between 2.9 and 2.2 - to finance precise choices to support public and private investment and to reduce the tax burden on labour and enterprise. Our choice is therefore clear and is very important politically: to maintain the path of fiscal consolidation because public finances must remain sustainable, in order to reduce the uncertainty about the fiscal pressure of the future, which penalizes consumption and investment, but immediately implementing important measures to reduce the tax burden on labour and business and to encourage investments, financed, in part, through expenditure reductions through the revision of expenditure and, in part, with the greater indebtedness I have already mentioned. The DEF clearly shows the effects that we would have on the product and consumption if we had made all the adjustment required by the agreement, but I would like to make this point. The third pillar is an aggressive policy of structural reforms. There are four in particular, but I will only mention the first two, because they have more significant financial significance. It is, on the one hand, the reduction of the tax burden on labour and business, stabilising the 80 euros and working to change the nature of this intervention. In the context of public finance of the DEF you find in fact the accounting of the resources necessary for the payment of the 80 euros as greater expense; you have to make sure that the reality of the accounting corresponds to the reality of the facts: that is a reduction of the fiscal pressure and as such we have to transform the nature of it in order to allow the accounting in this key. To this is added, as a result, the IRAP reduction already practised by Decree-Law No 66 of this year: 2.5 billion IRAP to reduce the rate by 10%, already made and permanent. However, it is necessary to add a new initiative on the cost side for the enterprises, that brings in 2015 the reduction of the tax wedge and contribution on the job to exceed in size the point of gross domestic product. This means taking almost half of the path we have to take in order to bring in three years, as we intend to do, the tax burden on work and on the company where it is located in Germany (i.e. in the big factory), our competitor in the European context. [[Senator Carraro's solicitation.]] I see Senator Carraro is in a hurry, but I don't know what to do with it, just to be clear. The second measure is that of overcoming the Internal Stability Pact since 2015 and not, as provided for in the enhanced law implementing the new Article 81, since 2016 (I was very surprised that nobody has talked about it), replacing the Internal Stability Pact with the rule of balance-of-balance-sheet on the four balances, both on the budget and on the statement. This is another choice that has structural significance, because after fifteen years it is possible to overcome the Internal Stability Pact and therefore, in a country that is hungry for investment, to free investment in the system of local self-governments from mortgages that the Internal Stability Pact has so far, as it has been expressed to date, put pressure on that prospect. There are also the other two structural reforms that are worth talking about, but we will do it again. I am therefore voting on the motions for resolutions. As far as the report to Parliament is concerned, the Government is recognised in motion for a resolution No 100. On the other hand, with regard to the DEF Update Note, the Government recognizes itself in the majority motion for a resolution, which is No. 3. On the contrary, the opinion is opposed to motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u88	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 3, signed by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta and other Senators, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts from this moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u91	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, very briefly, for the reasons I have outlined in my speech, I am voting in favour of the Senators of the Civic Choice Group. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u94	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to join Mr Lanzillotta and leave my speech to the record. I can only agree with what, in a nutshell, we have had the opportunity to discuss in the Budget Committee and what the Deputy Minister has just said. For our part, therefore, we basically share the strategy that the Government wants to pursue at the time of the law of stability, in particular; there will be the essential element because we are all aware - everyone has given notice to the Government - that an operation of transparency and truth has been made regarding the macroeconomic data that affect our economy. However, a digression has also been made on what is today the very hold of Europe. Worried about this, we share the fact that the game must be played internally, but above all by exploiting the last months of Presidency at EU level. Therefore, on this we share the action that both Minister Padoan and Council President Renzi will be able to play in that context. Having said that, there are many commitments and many reforms that we know will also be complex and painful. However, the objective is to give a positive shock to the state of the situation today, noting that all previous restrictive manoeuvres have not given the results we all wanted. So we hope that what has been announced between yesterday and today by the Government can actually have that beneficial effect, even in terms of hope and, above all, to look forward. We trust that, in the end, everyone, including the European partners, will feel the need for more Europe. Today there are many constraints that apply to European countries, because when monetary union - the euro - was born it could only be done this way; but it is true that today there is no great continent that has such strong ties in a situation that, as the Deputy Minister said, has no comparison in history. This crisis, in fact, is much more painful than the 1929 crisis. Perhaps, in the face of an exceptional situation, it is also worth having courage. I read today that some German commentators also invite the current Chancellor to have the courage to invest so that we return to that constituent spirit of Europe that saw Germany, together with Italy and France, in the years they were, the main promoters of what we today give for acquired or for granted and what has given us well-being in the last sixty years. Having said that, I announce the Group's vote for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE Group's resolution No 3, which we have signed. I would ask the Presidency to hand over the text of my speech. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u95	The Presidency authorizes you to leave the text of your speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u96	20.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u99	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for having wished to recall the hybrid in his speech. However, I would like to go further, after having made this epistemological criticism, on the document of economy and finance some particular aspects. You propose four objectives in this document which are quite pretentious. First of all, the reduction of the tax burden for low-income families through an increase in the deduction for employees; and all right, it is still not given to know how, but the Renzi Government is a bit like the Falqui confection: the word is enough. Secondly, the reduction of the tax burden for companies through a 10% reduction in IRAP, which is also good. Then there is the payment of debts, which is a recurring theme. There is a fine essay by Nicola Rossi entitled "Suditi" which explains to us how, with regard to the previous speech, if the State did not treat citizens as a different part of itself, it would not have been necessary to invent a special right such as administrative law: the civil code would have sufficed to be able to pay the suppliers of goods and services. I think this is gonna be a little bit like the U.S.L. liquidations that ran out after 15 to twenty years. But that's okay, too. Finally, a series of liberalisation and simplification measures on the labour market. That's also in mind. Gods because we have largely delegated the Government and we hope that the decrees delegated will arrive at this objective and therefore that the economic order will take place where there is the achievement of purpose. I would like to say that the vote of our Group, which is a mixed group, will also be taken by those who are going to do otherwise, not so much because we do not believe, for the reasons I have set out in the general discussion, that the forecasts are justified and because we are convinced of the fallacy of any kind of forecast management that the State can do with the economic planning of economic developments, but above all with regard to a question that is political. I'm gonna leave out the percentages, the decimals. The government elected by the Italian people chaired by Silvio Berlusconi was sent home through an economic-financial plot, as well as recently authoritative representatives have testified, because it was said that the government was damaging to the economy. We were at the end of 2011, if I'm not mistaken. Then, alive, Monti came, then Letta and finally Renzi, but there is not a single economic parameter, that is one, that has improved. This does not lead me to make sure that you call the last President of the Council elected by the Italian people, but a minimum of ashes on the head someone should spread it, because someone wanted to add to the Italian people a series of fannies that the subsequent facts, beyond the forecasts, have then proved to be for the purpose of political speculation because it had nothing to do with the economy. I do not say this for "vergin" of servant commendation, because I do not have to ingratiate anyone, but the truth is that if a note can be made to President Berlusconi is that of not having made the liberal, that is to say of not having influenced in a determined way in carrying forward those reforms that constituted the program of Force Italy and the PdL. The political madness of our system is that this should be done by the secretary of the main party against us, that is, the secretary of the PD. We have arrived in a condition in which those who have an idea of the State that is radically opposed, at least if the horizon of values is still of some importance, that is, the party of the left, are those who should deconstruct the State, liberalise the economy, give less state and more market. So I wanted to ask, not Deputy Minister Morando, who is always Ecce Homo: but, let me understand, is the left in Italy there or is it no longer there? Because if you have created the leftist liberal party, then it is credible that you can do something among those you set out. But the truth is that you will still do, like all those who are animated by good intentions, of which, I remind myself, hell is paved, a half step forward and a half step back, because all the reforms you face, faced superficially, epidermally. You want to regulate Article 18 of the Workers' Statute in order to make more binding the possibility for entrepreneurs not to marry their employees anymore, but it is a sector in which the criteria of productivity, efficiency, merit and capacity, which are consubstantial to the life of the enterprise, already exist and on the side of the public administration, where we continue to pay people for the single day of presence, nothing has moved, indeed I remind you that there is the reform Brunetta that still lies within the chests of the Presidency of the Council and has not found implementing decrees. This reminds me, among other things, of Popper, who said democracy is not the tyranny of the majority, that is, it is not that every government that comes must also eliminate the good things that previous governments have done. Vote for this document, as well as voting on what it will achieve, the real law of stability, is therefore perfectly useless, because with the economic crisis that attacks the country, there is no political authority to go and impose, where it is decided, that is, in Brussels, or rather in Berlin, the redefinition and redefining of the Maastricht parameters, which are the last knot to which we are hanging the Italian citizens. I believe that this gordian knot that Berlusconi wanted to cut with the sword when he wanted to discuss the Maastricht parameters, should cut it off the new Alessandro Magno, who is the former mayor of Florence, dear Deputy Minister Morando. Therefore, we vote against, in the sense that we do not believe in economic epistemology, we do not believe in the constructivism of the government's economic forecast and we do not believe that with hot cloths we can solve the problem of the economic crisis and unemployment in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u102	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, the Group for Italy will vote in favour of the resolutions that have been tabled, particularly those supported by the Government, because we believe that the DEF is a realistic document, as has been said in this House, correct and transparent. I would like to refer to President Azzollini's speech earlier in the Chamber. I am very much in favour of this speech when it concerns the problematic aspects, particularly the possibility of the spending review finding the resources that are indicated, or the other problematic aspect that refers to the safeguard clauses that may increase the tax burden since 2016. I agree with him also with regard to the qualifying points, namely the commitment to respect for the European parameters, which the Government has assumed, and which he reiterates in this DEF and to which - we believe we have understood - he will maintain faith in the law of stability, as well as the search for an expansive policy, whose features we have derived in the speeches of the President of the Council of these hours. We hope that the Government's announcements will find concreteness in the law of stability and above all we encourage the Government to ensure that the objective of reducing the tax burden by keeping commitments on individuals and families (but this time increasing the lowering of the tax burden on companies) can be the polar star of the law of stability. We have said this since the first moment that we have set foot in this House, as people and as a Group: we believe that the crisis comes out with a strengthening of the productive apparatus of our country, both industrial and related to services; we come out by making more efficient and streamlined the public administration, but growth cannot but rest above all on the shoulders of companies (and companies must find comfort with a lowering of the tax burden) and, as happened last week, taking inspiration from labour market laws, addressing, that is, the issues necessary and important for companies to be competitive. We have dealt with the issue of the labour market, we will deal with the issue of taxes with the law of stability; we absolutely have to deal with that of energy resources because the costs for our companies are excessive and distract them from our competitors. For these reasons, therefore, considering the DEF as the platform for a law of stability that respects the commitments and that re-launches our country in a development policy, we will support the action of the Government and support the DEF. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u105	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the essential premise of this Update Note is precisely the worsening of all the data in our economy. This is the result of the damage of the Monti and Letta Governments, but the fact that in only six months the Government Renzi had to correct downward the forecast of GDP, even more than a percentage point (+0.8 to -0.3), confirms that at the very basis of his work there is the lack of understanding and a guilty underestimation of the gravity of the Italian crisis, which is both exogenous, namely due to the blind and stupid austerity imposed by the EU, both endogenous, due to decades of fiscal and bureaucratic oppression, inefficiency and parasitism of public administrations, ideological ingesture of the labour market. Other than jobs act, which is just another proclamation. But let's go more specifically. First, it should be remembered that many observers had quantified the resources needed to make the public accounts right next year - indeed, Renzi himself has just stated that it will take up to 30 billion - and everyone wondered where the government would ever recover such a large amount. According to what the Government itself announced last spring, with slides and more, there were 17 billions that should have come from the spending review, and we are all aware of the results, so much so that Cottarelli leaves the post. So, what's the consequence? At least half of that amount will come from an explicit increase in the public deficit and, therefore, of the debt. As the Government itself clarifies, in the absence of interventions in the coming year, the deficit would be 2.2% of GDP, but the Government is willing to intervene in an expansionary sense and will bring next year's deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP. It appears in the first place - in some ways it is singular, but it is mere coincidence - that the worsening of the public deficit recorded in 2014 and the one announced for the next year is just equal to the cost of the famous bonus of 80 euros, object - as is known - of bitter controversy at the time of its conception. To the test of the facts, it has exactly come true - and also with the impeccable tones of the best technical structures - what was then expected. Secondly, it is clear to everyone that the promise, addressed to the citizens of all, and in particular to the younger generations, that politics would stop loading on their shoulders a further public debt. Let us remember the promises we made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the contrary, just three years after the reform of Article 81 of the Constitution with the introduction of a balanced budget, the deficit is increased, and this is not the first time. It should also be borne in mind that the planning forecasts also take account of the impact of budgetary measures that will be incorporated into the Stability Act, including safeguard clauses. There is, in fact, at the bottom of the schedule on page 2 of the Update Note - as my colleagues have already mentioned and, in particular, the President of the Budget Committee itself - a little noticing which reads as follows: A clause on VAT rates and other indirect taxes totalling 12.4 billion in 2016, 17.8 billion in 2017 and 21.4 billion in 2018. The effects of this clause, estimated with the ITS macroeconomic model, would generate a loss of GDP of 0.7 percentage points at the end of the period, due to an overall contraction in consumption and investment by 1.3 percentage points... This is crazy. It is true that I could be told that this is only one safeguard clause. But, gentlemen, when you approve of this Amending Note, it will become final and there will then be no subsequent passage in Parliament. It will have force of law, so much so that above all the ventilated and desired spending review will be difficult to implement and it will be very likely that the safeguard clause will come true, so it promises to be a severe increase in the tax burden. Look, we're talking about a pool of EUR 51.6 billion in three years. The marginal VAT rates, which are then those of 4% and 10%, are the only ones that can provide substantial receipts. I would remind you that these rates, which will increase, relate to foodstuffs such as milk, dairy products, flour, rice, pasta, bread, eggs, honey and also electricity and transport services. We know, therefore, in the pockets of which citizens will be more burdened by the increase in these rates: the less well-off citizens will have to make the greatest effort. Also according to the Update Note, there is a risk of an increase in indirect taxes. In addition to VAT, which I have already mentioned, the main indirect taxes go to touch - just to change - the house market: think about registration taxes and mortgage and real estate taxes. There are also excise duties on the list, which means a new increase in petrol. Colleagues, there is then a small trick, which has been inserted and has just been perfected and which will allow those who are in the government to impose new taxes and to say that the tax pressure with him has not increased, as Renzi has in fact just declared to Bergamo. The trick comes from the recent ballet of public accounts, which includes in GDP also the turnover of prostitutes, drug dealing and smuggling. Nobody noticed this, but in this way the relationship with incoming mails has also been changed and magically - already in 2014 and for the following years - the tax pressure has dropped by 0.3 percentage points. All this without raising any tax: magic of the accounts! In the debate on the left, we use the name of Thatcher incredibly to insult ourselves, while no one, not even Renzi, seems to understand that we need exactly the courage, vision and firmness that Thatcher had in changing the course of her country by 180 degrees. Finally, I would like to remind my fellow Members of some of the remarks made during the hearings held on Monday in the Commissions meeting, which are useful in realizing what the update note to our examination really is. For example, the Court of Auditors argues that: The Note does not contain the elements necessary to verify what has been stated................................................................................ I have here all the examples. I shall end my speech by saying that it has made me, in particular, that the rapporteur has said that the measures to invest in cinema and live entertainment will now come. The live show, Renzi is already doing it: it is the Renzi show, with which it will solve all our problems! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bruni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u108	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I think we should perhaps find a new definition for the DEFs and the Update Notes, which are approved by Parliament year after year, especially in this third year of recession. Perhaps they should be inscribed in some way to a kind - I don't know if it exists - of an exhibition of fantasy cinema [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Pepe]] In fact, we are now regularly approving a DEF with absolutely overestimated evaluations, data and forecasts and with the timely Update Note that corrects the data and hopes of growth, but in fact, as in the Note on the agenda, we actually continue on the same path. In an interview a few days ago, Minister Padoan himself acknowledged this failure and said that in cumulative terms the fall of GDP in Italy is greater than that which occurred during the great depression of '29; the euro area is at a crossroads and risks screwing into a spiral of stagnation and deflation (I would say recession and deflation); or we move decisively, or, without recovery, the holding of the social and productive fabric would be at risk. Mr President, even in this Update Note, we clearly do not see this moving decisively on completely different directions from those hitherto conducted; indeed, they continue to change governments, but they always follow the same agenda, that of the ECB, and even Renzi does nothing but make this same path. Moreover, the Government is trying to speed up the implementation of the same indications as the European Central Bank's letter of 5 August 2011 and for the drafting of the Stability Act, as can be seen from the DEF Update Note, it continues to follow the same path, while in our view it is increasingly clear that it is political that it does not work. I think that in the discussions and discussions in this House too we cannot continue not to realize that the crisis comes only with the end of austerity policies, with expansive policies and also with a new phase of intervention and public investment, because otherwise even private ones will not be able to find the opportunity to join the public ones themselves. The only variant of this director that continues to follow the Renzi Government, i.e. to continue to be in the axis of austerity policies, is the attempt to loosen the grip and postpone the balance of the budget in structural terms to 2017, after a first postponement to 2016, which has not yet been endorsed by the European Union. However, to reassure Brussels, as the previous Executives have also done, the Government plans to get away with it by providing in the Stability Act 2015-2017 a special maxi clause of automatic safeguard, with which it undertakes to ensure the achievement of the structural balance balance in balance since 2017, increasing the VAT rates and indirect taxes to an amount of 12.4 billion in 2016, of 17.8 billion in 2017 and 21.4 billion in 2018. If exercised, however, the clause would - it is good that it is clear and we want it to remain in the act - have a recessive effect of 0.7% of GDP over the three years 2016-2018, due to a total contraction of consumption and investment by 1.3 points of GDP. Therefore, in fact, the shift in budgetary balance to 2017 is certainly not the real challenge to the European Commission that would be necessary, as is the French decision to maintain the deficit above 4% for the coming years. The slowdown in the Italian return journey is in fact perfectly compatible with the flexibility provided for by the European regulations. We should therefore have had the strength and courage to really question the fiscal compact and austerity policies that, I repeat, are not taking us out of the crisis. The key to everything, it's useless that we turn around, it's obviously this. But obviously President Renzi thought well to make statements and announcements as usual roboant. France's road was an opportunity to build a very strong axis in Europe to question these policies, but President Renzi made a completely different choice; not only by asking to postpone the balance of the budget to 2017 and by giving the insurance of the automatic safeguard clause, we risk, as I have shown before, even increasing our situation. I have to say - and this is the underlying reason for our vote against the Update Note - that in fact totally embodies what will be the law of stability - that we note a kind of creative vein in this, because all the law of stability and maneuver is entrusted for the recovery or hope of escape from the recession situation - which is called stagnation, but we know perfectly well that it is not so, because we are still in a recession - to a series of overestimates of the so-called structural reforms that follow the indications of the famous letter of the ECB. We are faced with absolutely roboating assessments, which will lead to further errors from the point of view of impact assessments. I am thinking of how the impact of labour market reform on growth is overestimated (which is even referred to as between 0.1 and 0.3%). If we consider the current level of unemployment (6 million people is the one for 2015), probably not less than 14%, imagine a growth of 0.6% of GDP in 2015 we can call it a kind of act of faith. Strong in our view is the suspicion that planned GDP growth at 0.6% in 2015 is only functional to try to build a public finance framework rather than a prediction with some scientific basis. But maybe it's the power of propaganda. The government, among other things, continues to stress that it will focus everything on structural reforms: from work to public administration, through institutional reforms. This package of interventions builds on its faith in a GDP growth of 3.4 points in 2020 and even 8.1 points in the long term. So we are faced with an overestimate of these reforms which, in our view, in some respects, as will be the impact of labour reform, will have a further depressing effect on employment. In the DEF and in the Note there is a total lack of a policy of public demand and investment, and it continues in a very serious way to put in place a series of choices also as hypothesis of development of the Country that in our opinion are completely wrong. I quote one for all: the effects of the decree unlocks Italy, a measure that condemns our country once again to the backwardness of an economy based on the intensive consumption of non-renewable resources and concentrated in a few hands (and we could add much more). This is not the way to get our country out of the tragic situation it is in. Not only that, the wrong choices that are being made, from constitutional reform to labour reform to public administration reform, are even being exalted, which risk having further devastating effects from the point of view of the country's social and economic cohesion. That is why we will vote against the majority resolution on the Update Note and vote against the request for authorisation to postpone the budget balance to 2017, because it makes explicit reference to this Note and to the wrong choices that this Government is making. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u111	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Mr President, before I hand over my speech to the Presidency, I only announce the Group's vote in favour of both motions for resolutions by the majority and I shall briefly explain the reasons, which are the same as Mr Azzollini has explained a great deal in his speech. Among the measures that this DEF anticipates for the law of stability we express satisfaction in particular for the stabilization of the bonus IRPEF, which will take into account family loads, for the further reduction of the levy on enterprises, to accompany the process of fiscal simplification, in particular for the benefit of SMEs, for the allocation of adequate resources for security and for the overcoming of the Internal Stability Pact and the transition to the principle of balance of budgets that will raise public investment but above all reward virtuous administrations. This process, together with constitutional reforms, will certainly revive the competitiveness of our country. We therefore welcome this document and will therefore vote in favour of both motions for resolutions tabled by the majority. I therefore ask the Presidency to be able to attach my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u115	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, let me start by making a comment. I find it very serious that in this House the President of the Budget Commission, who has presided over that Commission over the last twenty years, alternating with the Deputy Minister, has stated that in recent years we - basically you - have always approved a false in the budget. In essence, you have always hurt the accounts and today Renzi arrived who is finally transparent. I find myself better in the words of Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, who instead flaunts concerns. In fact, beyond what President Azzollini can say, to which I remember - with deep humility, as is usual to say - that the 3 billion Letta (3, then 7 and finally 10 billion euros) of the safeguard clause, which should take place next year, are certainly incorporated in the maneuver: they did not eat them, nor were they dissolved. I am. So it's easy irony, making fun of the Italians too. So, there's always talk of media awesomeness here, because media awesomeness gives life to public debt on public debt: but done how? Done without any responsibility. Among the last announcements - let's make a few numbers - is what our Premier promised 6 and a half billion for IRAP. I would like to point out that since the component that is being considered is only that of work, 70% of the benefit will go to large companies. So we don't tear our clothes off with the small and micro-enterprises for which the benefit will be yes and no by 5%; there are also those exposed with passive interests, but that is a post we leave aside. Then there are the 10 billion to finance the 80 euros, which we know well that they do not redistribute income. We have called them an electoral tip because they go to 10 million citizens, those who used to vote, while pensioners with the minimum or pensioners generally do not give themselves inconstitutionally. Those who receive less than 8,000 euros a year are not given anything, so those who would have more propensity to consume, and therefore to re-launch these blessed consumptions, are not given. Then there would be the EUR 500 million that should come from deductions for larger households (EUR 500 million represent a zero comma something), then a billion contributions for new recruits, completely demolishing Article 18 and increasing the protections. Then we have a billion per 150,000 insecure people in the school. And the next year would cost four billion. What are we gonna do? Public debt, of course. Again, we have 1.5 billion new shock absorbers promised in jobs act. There we have written that these must not involve new or higher charges, but here we see that we will go fishing them somewhere, as well as the 500 million in research. 500 million? President Azzollini spoke of four researchers against 44,000. Here we go from four to - maybe - three and a half. Then we have 500 million euros for the energy bonus. Six billion unstoppable expenses, as for the peace missions that you so much defend. Then there are the three billion of the Letta clause, a billion shots for law enforcement, and then there's Genoa. We have reached 30 billion, of which 11.5 are covered with unproductive public debt, because it will not help to revive this country and finally raise it. We must not forget these 18.5 billion spending reviews. It is clear that one is frightened, in fact these cuts can be so restrictive, because they will be semilinear. The operation of Renzi previews the cut of 3% to all the Ministries: but remember that still we must recover the three billion euros to cover the 80 billion of 2014, that the municipalities are still trying to recover. In fact, now we are dumping everything on the municipalities saying that we will not increase taxes for anything. We come to this beautiful report, with which we are nevertheless calling for the overtaking to make these 11.5 billion deficits. In it we write very clearly the mortgage also for the next generation, since you destroyed this. You write that in particular the law of stability will contain a special automatic safeguard clause, with which the Government undertakes to ensure the necessary correction to ensure the achievement of the structural balance. There is talk of 12.4 billion for 2016, 17.8 billion in 2017 and 21.4 billion in 2018. It is clear that you already know these numbers well. I am shocked that your Parliamentary Budget Office has come to say that this clause does not really matter. Yet, you rest everything here, because the spending review will not be able to do it. You have hands and feet tied and when you go to cut four and a half billion to the Regions you will have to take them from the live meat of the Italians, that is from the health care, to which you are already asking at least one billion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As Poletti arrived with 600 million dowries from welfare, while 800 million came from school, which instead would demand real investments. How does the country re-launch itself? We also owe public debt, but no more homework to be careful of Merkel. And let's say that we really have to set up a citizenship income, reform all social shock absorbers, help small and micro enterprises, which are the ones that escape the least. The big ones, to which you are giving almost seven billion, are the first to escape, and you are complicit. That's the truth. And while Confindustria is happy, meanwhile small entrepreneurs commit suicide in your total indifference. As in recent years you have been indifferent to all the imbalances announced earlier by the President of the Budget Commission, Mr Azzolini. And that's indecent. How could we agree to a report based only on new taxes? There's nothing expansive about it. You go and talk to the banks but, in fact, you commit Cash deposits and loans to the TFR. And in Cash deposits and loans there is the money of the Italians, committed to pay even the companies. And still there are almost 30 billion missing: other than promises and media calls! Be honest. Talk to the Italians and tell them that you have foreseen 50 billion new taxes since 2016, and that you are just doing a new election campaign, because we are able to raise this country. You are not able to lower the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises and families significantly, but last year this Parliament facilitated the banks for 20 billion: that is the truth, that is the way things are, Mr Morando, and the people, who have their pocketbooks languishing, know very well who is right here, as its document also shows, in which there are the restrictive repercussions of this new taxation. This government, in line with those of Letta and Monti, will make linear cuts on people's heads and will impose new taxes, with tax sentries friends, who I hope will not vote on this report, which is based on the imposition of new taxes. I also hope that the friends of the Mixed Group and in particular of SEL, who are so opposed to the jobs act, will not vote for this report, which should be adopted by an absolute majority of this Parliament: well, we will be very careful to see who wants new taxes and less development for Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u118	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the insufficient time allowed for the consultation and study of the DEF Update Note, which remains the main instrument for programming our country's economic and budgetary policy. Secondly, I would like to hope that the establishment of the Parliamentary Budget Office was not yet another joke or a way of distributing some prebende. I imagine that what President Pisauro gave to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance was a courtesy response, because objectively to write a few lines such as those transmitted there was no need for the Parliamentary Budget Office. The 2014 Document of Economics and Finance Update Note is necessary to adapt to the performance of the bad economic forecasts contained in repeat in the DEFs of recent years. This Note retouched the DEF of April 2014, which modified the futuristic forecasts of October 2013. I would like to remind you that GDP fell by 2.4 percent in 2012 and 1.9 percent in 2013, while it will fall by 0.4 percent at the end of this year, so I do not know what miracle can happen to increase it by 0.5 percent in 2015. Dear Deputy Minister, to increase GDP, measures are needed to support businesses, to promote employment and to increase production. Action must be taken in favour of the agricultural sector and tourism, the promotion of cultural heritage, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the abolition of the Stability Pact for Municipalities with their own resources for investment. The last three governments - appointed in open violation of popular sovereignty, since the fundamental principle of democracy has been trampled on, according to which voters choose their own rulers, and strongly wanted by the President of the Republic - had the objective of reducing public debt. The result is that these governments have surpassed themselves in the production of public debt: you have not solved any problem, you have massacred the country's economy. In November 2011, when the Monti Government entered the field, the public debt was 1,905 billion euros, while in September 2014 we attested to 2,168 billion (it is true that it has now decreased by 20 billion, I don't know for which alchemy accounting). This is 260 billion more public debt in less than two and a half years. I remember that in the first eight months of this year, public debt increased by 80 billion (to be precise 78.6 billion, with 10 billion increase in public debt per month). All your optimistic economic forecasts have proved to be unfounded so far: unfortunately you have not guessed one. The country is in the middle of a period of stagnation and economic recession, far from being overcome. The DEF shall contain the shift in the time period for the achievement of the structural balance. I remember that the Monti Government had fixed it in 2013; the Letta Government moved it to 2015; this Government moved it before 2016 and now to 2017. What ideas will be made in Europe and in the rest of the world about the credibility of our country? Despite these disastrous and worrying results, we continue on the same path, on the contrary, I think that this DEF is going to get really worse. This is a DEF made by those who are locked in the building, blind and deaf compared to what is happening in the country, the drama that lives businesses and families that no longer know where to bump their heads to survive. A DEF must be done with criteria of responsibility, concreteness and prudence. The international macroeconomic framework is showing less encouraging trends, with a gradual slowdown in the growth of world production and international trade. Some glows are essentially linked to the good performance of the US economy, but more than one question is being asked. Internally, the weakness of domestic demand prevails and in particular of investment, which declined significantly in the first part of the year. The payment of the debts accumulated by the public administration, which could give a boost to the economy, was to be concluded in September, while it is still on the high seas. They are paid 31.3 billion, compared to 80-100, which are still on the table. The confidence indicators of households have entered the fallback phase again compared to the beginning of the year; national final consumption is slowing down. The composite index of industrial production decreased by 1.8 in trend terms on an annual basis. Industry's turnover and orders, net of seasonality, also decreased by 1% compared to June, with decreases both on the foreign market and on the internal market. Fixed investments decreased by 2.1%. The fall is ascribable, both to the dynamics of investments in the construction sector, which continue to manifest negative values for the seventh consecutive year - but how could it be otherwise with the taxation you introduced on the house? - as well as the fall in purchases of machinery and equipment. The unemployment rate is still at its highest level (12.6 per cent), with 40% peaks in the under-25 age group. The continuous and unstoppable closure of companies, the closure of commercial activities and the reduction of the employed - reduction of almost 1'1 percent - leave for dark scenarios. For you, however, no problem. During the hearing, the deputy director of the Bank of Italy, Luigi Federico Signorini, said that the economic forecasts present significant downward risks and says it with knowledge of the case: in the third quarter Italian GDP followed a further fall of 0.1 percent. The same goes for the president of ISTAT, Giorgio Alleva, who says that, as a result of the drag, similar impulse should have GDP in 2015. Compared to this scenario you have thought of making a maneuver in additional debt, an expansive maneuver. Bringing the programmatic net debt for 2015 to the threshold of 3 percent is a real madness. Under this condition, making a budget of 30 billion determining certain outputs, against somewhat uncertain revenue forecasts - tax revenues in the first eight months of the year are down by 0.2 percent and close to less than one billion on an annual basis - and expenditure reductions entrusted to the spending review for 13.3 billion (which had to be 18.7 according to the April DEF and which are only on paper) is another madness. The breach of the parameters is contrary to Constitutional Law No. 1 of 20 April 2012 and Law No. 243 of 2012. Debt can be used for exceptional events, not for things that are widely predictable. I believe, among other things, that the European Commission was not heard before the request for authorisation was sent to the Chambers. It seems to me that neither the timing nor the duration of the deviation have been indicated and there is no return plan. It is clear that the increase in debt is needed to cover non-structural measures; the result will be the opening of a new infringement procedure by the European Union and corrective action will be necessary as early as 2015. It is not difficult to predict that the maximum safeguard clause will start with 51.6 billion new taxes in three years, with the increase of VAT rates and other taxes to 12, 17 and 21 billion, respectively in 2016, 2017 and 2018. This is a mechanism that has already been tested with the financial maneuver 2014. I believe that, in the face of this situation, we can only be completely opposed to this DEF and will therefore vote against the majority motion for a resolution. In this respect, we have also announced that we have tabled an alternative motion for a resolution, which we call for very careful consideration. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u120	You have the right to do so. I say that the deadline for tabling amendments has expired. I also tell Senator Santini so that he can be regular with the times. Mr President, the DEF Update Note revises the economic framework, highlighting a worsening of the growth estimates of the Italian economy for the current year and 2015 compared to the forecasts made in the DEF. In particular, there is still a weakness in domestic demand and investment which have contracted significantly in the course of this year. The Note configures the current phase as a period of recession that is becoming stagnation. Economic activity is expected to grow slightly at the trend level, which becomes a little more sustained only from 2017 and, therefore, benefiting, according to the Government, from the improvement of world demand and also the positive effects of the reforms put in place. To get out of this recession and stagnation, with the DEF Update Note, the Government makes a bold and expansive choice: to set the debt threshold at 2.9 percent and, therefore, the postponement of one year of the fiscal balance in structural terms will allow the Government to take advantage of a margin of approximately 11.5 billion for the next law of stability, with some important objectives. I am referring to supporting domestic demand by confirming and structuralising income support with EUR 80, and determining a cut in labour cost taxes, with the abolition of the IRAP component of EUR 6.5 billion, and the total decontribution for the first three years for new recruits with new permanent contracts. These choices are indispensable, precisely in order to counter the stagnating phase and restore momentum to consumption and investment. In this way, the law of stability for 2015, thanks to the margins of financial maneuver made available, to the postponement of a year of balance of budget and the availability of resources to be recovered with the revision of the expenditure that must be realized with consistency and the necessary tenacity, as has been rightly said in many interventions, can represent a new opportunity of growth for the country, integrating the support to the domestic demand, the reduction of the taxation of the job and the enterprises with incisive reforms in the matter of the labour market and of more active and inclusive social cushions, with the support to the investments, unblocking the works with the overcoming of the Internal Stability Pact for Regions and local authorities, with the putting in circuit of the resources for the works through the decree unlocks Italy, with the urgent acceleration of the works in order to counter the hydrogeological disaster, so urgently reported by the tragedies of these days. From the international context there are conflicting indications that lead to moderate optimism, given, for example, the positive development of the US economy. The European area, on the other hand, remains behind, with very weak growth rates. Europe is therefore called upon to put investment and growth policies in the field, as President Draghi has repeatedly called on the ECB to do. It is therefore up to us to create the conditions to engage our economy to the best international growth performance by removing those structural obstacles that have hindered investment in our country for years. While we are calling for flexibility in Europe, while honouring our commitments, we know that it is up to us to do our part to the full. So together with the financial measures, we must complete as soon as possible the system reforms that we have put in place over the last few months. I am referring in particular to institutional reforms, political reform, electoral reform, but also to the new school of the future, as well as to an inclusive and modern labour market, a new efficient and transparent public administration, tax and civil justice reform and certain rules for combating tax evasion, corruption and, in general, illegality. The complex of these measures, financial and political, institutional and social, we must be able to put them into a single overall message: in Italy we can and must go back to investing. Many Members have pointed out this point that it is important, which is the decisive point, to focus all fiscal and fiscal policies on. Investments in works, investments in networks and productive investments are the choice that can restart our country, because only the confidence of families, Italian companies and potential investors can change the course of the history of this country to allow a better future. We are working on this, so I am announcing the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the two motions for a majority resolution, in particular in support of the DEF Update Note and the postponement of the debt return. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u121	Colleagues, I invite you to take your place because a discreetly delicate phase begins: if someone is wrong it may be that it is the last vow he expresses in life, so you have to be careful. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Susta and Zeller, to the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Senator Lumia gets to his station. Comments from the PD Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Precisely. Actually, my call, Senator Lumia, I think your colleagues are grateful. We move on to motion for a resolution No 3 to the DEF Update Note, accepted by the Government, on which two amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u122	I am against the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u123	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u124	I put to the vote Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Tosato. It's not approved. I put to the vote Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 4, tabled by Senator Paolo Romani and other Senators, and No 5, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other Senators are therefore excluded. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u127	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the flood that has occurred in recent days in Genoa, Alexandria and Parma brings us back to the agenda: the fragility of our country. The mayor of Genoa Marco Doria says that we are a sick country. They are asking for unity and collaboration, so that we can proceed as quickly as possible to implement and promote any action aimed at the restoration of infrastructure in the damaged territories, the prevention of hydrogeological failure in our country. In the budget of the State are usable and still not spent nor engaged, in the phase of yard, 1,6 billion euros allocated with decision CIPE in 2012 for urgent works of sewer and purifiers that can be used for the purpose. I trust that this Government can really be the Government of Change. The change, in the case of Genoa, also means to renaturalize, that is, to remove and not only to carry out works to rebuild how much the water has taken away. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to give the concrete answers that citizens have been waiting for decades with courage. We have an opportunity to plan a future in which we no longer intervene only in emergency situations, but in which spatial planning, in the interests of all citizens, and not just a few, does not remain an empty word, in which environmental protection is integrated into legitimate economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, let us build this future together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD Group. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u128	Thank you, Senator Albano, and I apologize. It is absolutely transversal the disorder that comes from those who, I did not understand why, stop in the hemicycle and do not go out. Now I'm gonna start calling someone back. Colleagues, allow the regular conduct of the proceedings of the Chamber. Senator De Petris, Senator D'Anna, let us finish, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u131	SCIBONA (M5S). President, ladies and gentlemen, last Saturday, 4 October, during a press conference in Turin, the technicians of the No Tav movement illustrated some official documents that deny the statement of Minister Lupi and of the extraordinary commissioner of the new Turin-Lion line, the architect Virano. While the two constantly repeat that the works of realization of the geognostic tunnel of Chiomonte will end on 31 December 2015, the Ministry of Infrastructure writes as final date 2017. It's not enough. A recent European contract from LTF (the Franco-Italian mixed company in charge of work) even indicates December 2016. To date, after almost two years of work, 17 percent of the work progress has been achieved. It is difficult for the remaining 83% to be excavated in 15 months, and this confirms the forecasts of the Ministry and LTF, denouncing absolutely the Minister and the Commissioner. The consequences of the delay will be serious. In fact, the EU, which in 2013 has already reduced its financing due to technical and administrative delays, has established that it will only pay for the works carried out until 31 December 2015. If - as is likely - at that date only 50% will be executed, the failure to take would be in the order of 32-33 million euros, million that would fall entirely on France and Italy, unless we abandon the work in half, a feeling that is becoming more and more pressing. Moreover, today's news is that the President of the European Parliament's Transport Commission, Michael Cramer, has stated that it is absolutely not said that Europe will co-finance 40% of the cross-border trade, because the work is not a priority. For Europe the priority is the North-South (northern-south and not south-northern) trend, because the part of the Third Pass is not inclusive of the large Ten-T network. So, you don't understand - then on the third pass there would be talk - how these works will end, including those of the base tunnel. Since it is not imaginable that men of high honour such as Minister Lupi and Commissioner Virano are consciously lying, of the two at one: either they ignore official documents, which they should know and verify; or they have been misinformed by their collaborators. In both cases, in order to safeguard at least their own dignity, they should resign from their duties. Allow me, however, by returning to the Third Pass, to point out that today, in the Commission, I and my colleague Mr Cioffi, but also the majority, have asked for an urgent hearing with regard to the COCIV contract. Four days ago, in fact, during the flood of Genoa, even in Fegino there was a half disaster, fortunately without death: a White Arrow is derailed. Looking at the photos you can see in the various news sites, just above the derailed train you can see the construction site of the Third Pass, with the dorsal of a hill just cleared. Therefore, it is permissible to think that it is precisely that deforestation the cause of the derailment of the train and of this we would like to have clarity. We also requested an urgent hearing of the COCIV consortium in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u134	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry that some people have already left. [[Senator Ferrara's comments.]] Yes, subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u135	Let's call them colleagues. The subjects, let's leave them alone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u136	[[Applause from Senator Ferrara]] BOTTICS (M5S). I would like to ask a reply to some of my questions which deal with a series of ill-treatments in opaque facilities, ranging from kindergartens to prisons, to elderly communities. It seems to me that the government is not very interested, also because I have presented many but I have obtained zero answers. I would like to focus in particular on a scandal involving the community. The Forteto (and perhaps the Tuscans know it). I wonder why the Minister questioned does not feel the need and urgency to respond not so much to me but to those poor citizens who claim to have suffered violence and torture in the community so dear to several Italian politicians. In question 4-00543 I was even forbidden, using the famous formula "institutional practice" to list the names of illustrious Italian politicians reported in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the custody of minors of the Tuscany Region, which on page 44 reads: "Each one saw" - it is talking about public subjects - "its single harmless report." Fiesoli, however, in the meantime, actually laid the foundations and built the architraves for a genuine institutional collapse, a short circuit in the third party to which the institutions and their representatives would be called by their role: politicians, magistrates (...). To give an idea of the phenomenon we try to reconstruct from the testimonies listened to a list of the characters who, in various ways and in different ways, pass to the Forteto: Edoardo Bruno, Piero Fassino, (...) Susanna Camusso, Rosi Bindi, Livia Turco, Antonio Di Pietro (...), Claudio Martini, Riccardo Nencini and down with a list of names. Continues the report: "The attendances are variedly declined... PRESIDENT. Senator, you have to finish. BOTTICS (M5S). ... we go from those who make a passage in view of the next elections just the time of some handshake with photographs, to those who write prefaces for the editorial publications that Il Forteto realizes to honor that experience. Even Premier Renzi, president. Senator, you have to finish, you had five minutes, otherwise I have to bring in the Bottici commissioner compared to my colleague Bottici. BOTTICS (M5S). I'll kick myself out later. Don't worry, ma'am. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a matter that has been going on for years. Nobody gives the answers. Several politicians have passed through the gates of the Forteto. No one defends these people who have suffered serious violations, including torture. They even refused the judge president of the court. Premier Renzi, in 2011, hosted the founder, so-called "prophet," at Palazzo Vecchio, for a convention on the family and this subject, a few days later, was arrested for ill-treatment. I therefore await an immediate response from the Government to my question and I expect the bicameral committee for childhood and adolescence to deal with this case immediately, because there is a risk that everything will go on prescription, and it is no longer acceptable. Stop! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-330.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.44.
