ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Di Giorgi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 19 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u4	The next item is: Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 26 and 27 June 2014 and on the policy lines of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and subsequent discussion thereof. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall leave the text of the speech I made this morning to the Senate presidency in the House of Deputies, as it had happened, to inverted parties, on the occasion of the vote of confidence. I shall confine myself to nuclearising the fundamental points, and this is not an attempt to speed up the time for other commitments this afternoon, which I believe would be widely shared by the whole constitutional arc. I want to hope that it will be one of those choices appreciated by the opposition as well. In fact, jokes aside, I think it is necessary for me to confine myself to highlighting some points that constitute the summary of the intervention of this morning and, more in detail, of the appointments that await the Government starting from next Thursday and Friday. On Thursday the European Council meeting will not be in Brussels (it will be Friday in Brussels), but in Ypres, a place of war, the first and second world wars. It is very interesting, in my opinion, that we link European history and what awaits us with a symbolic place, that holds together the drama of history with the millions of deaths of the first and second world conflicts with the place of hope: Europe as a condition of hope. We are often discussing and reflecting among ourselves on a codicil, a quirk, a bond, a parameter, but Europe is this: the fruit of seventy years of peace after centuries of war. Europe is - forgive me for the pun - the place of utopia. It will be said that utopia is not the place, but it is the place of utopia exactly in view of the fact that having chosen to build seventy years of peace comes from a generation that has known the pain of war. In Ypres, the European Union's summits, the European Commission's for the next five years, will be decided. It is significant that this happens after a ceremony in which we remember the conflict, that Europe which was a frontier, a trench, a powder keg. In the intervention that I give to your attention are the considerations on the choice of names for the leadership of the European Union, the European Commission, the European Council, the Eurogroup, the High Representative of foreign policy and the European Parliament; but this is included in a framework in which Italy does not want to ask for space or places, because it is perhaps legitimized by the electoral success of this or that party. Italy is asking that the people who will carry out the public service within the European Union have the ambition and the horizon worthy of those who know the great challenge that we all face. The European Summit continues with a discussion on immigration. We have already had the opportunity, in this Senate too, to discuss the substance of the Mare nostrum operation, the need for Frontex to change its horizon of interest, not only on the eastern border but also on the southern border, that is to say that it increasingly considers the Mediterranean as a place of Europe and not a place of some Member State. We have already had the opportunity to say, speaking in this Senate, how central it is to us the dignity of the intervention of Mare nostrum for which, in the text, I have brought the thanks of the Government to the women and men of the Navy, the volunteering, the world of local administrations, who commit themselves and who I believe deserve the recognition of the whole nation for the work they are doing regardless of the ideas that everyone can have about the operation Mare nostrum. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, PI and NCD Groups]] At the same time, we have said that there is a shared and common need for intervention so that the values of being together are greater than the single currency or the economic value of this or that commitment made by individual states. In other words, the civilization of going to save human lives cannot be the sole prerogative of a community, of a nation. If we are convinced of this, we say it in all fora, including in the pre-European Council debate, that we are asking for the mandate from our Parliament to go to Europe to ask for a change in immigration policy. There is no recommendation that Member States should accept refugees seeking asylum and that the European institutions should be short-sighted at the same time. Friday morning we will already be in Brussels and we will discuss at the European Council the relevance of the recommendations of economic policy - on 2 June we received the recommendations of which public opinion and the Senate and the House have already discussed - but we believe that Europe cannot become a list of recommendations and problems. That is why we strongly insist that Italy should present in the European seat a package of specific reforms linked to an overall plan, which is able to substantially embrace the span of this legislature in order to ask as a natural consequence, and not in return, for the recognition of the flexibility that lies within the constitutional rules of the European Union. We cannot continue to say that Europe is together because there is a Stability Pact. It violates the Treaty and the European spirit who speaks only of the Stability Pact; not those who ask to speak of growth, because the European agreements constitute a component of the Stability and Growth Pact. There is no stability without growth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is no stability without a struggle without a neighborhood to unemployment. There is no stability without the recognition that in recent years politics has lacked the ability to say that those rules we have bound ourselves to are not simply to be changed. Everyone can think as he likes; we do not argue that they must be changed, but, in saying that they must be observed, let us say with great clarity and clarity that these rules require that we put at the centre of being together in Europe not simply respecting a budgetary parameter, but respecting the growth of countries. This did not happen. This morning I pointed out a very simple fact, which you will find in the text for whom of you will have the time and patience to read it. It was also discussed in this very Chamber after a statement by a opposition senator during the debate on the previous European Council. It was during the last six months of the Italian Presidency, the one led by President Berlusconi, in the second half of 2003, that two important and important countries that have always been the backbone of the European Economic Community and before the ECSC (France and Germany) asked and got out of the 3% limits, which are the limits typical of the rules of the European game. It was 2003. I don't want to remember what happened to France. I just say that Germany today is the country that more than any other has managed to overcome the crisis. It can be discussed how much the growth rate in Germany is comparable with the rest of the world. We, of course, would like to exchange money, but at international and global level we know that the percentages to which the euro area as a whole is growing are still low. Well, Germany, which grows more than any other European country, today would not have the conditions to face the crisis if the Schröder Government had not announced, during that semester, a series of reforms that allowed that country to face the crisis better than others. Then (and this is the common point between the Italian Government of 2014 and the German Government of 2003) a comprehensive reform package was presented. The element of dystonia is that we will not ask, as the Germans did, to overcome the 3 percent constraint. However, it is very interesting to note that, if there is a credible reform package, the rules themselves of Europe allow - not to say allow, not to say impose - to help and facilitate the reformist effort of countries that want to stay within the dynamics of growth and development. This must be clear, because, if there is no such list, all types of our assessment of the reform projects will be partial and limited. In the course of my speech to the House, however, I suggested that we consider the European Semester (which is under discussion on the agenda of today's Senate together with the communications to the European Council on Thursday and Friday) not only as the place where we should discuss rules, constraints and parameters. We think and believe that the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a huge opportunity to overcome the educational and cultural challenge on which we are currently suffering. Europe cannot simply be the place to go and ask for a penalty discount from time to time, as part of public opinion suggests. What is Europe? The place where I go, more or less, with the hat in my hand - to use a journalistic synthesis - to go and ask: "Cortainly, can this or that parameter be considered better?." Europe is not the place where the penalty is reduced. Europe is the place where, by investing in education, research and universities, we will be able to create a different idea of citizenship. Europe is the place where a great investment in information and communication technology will enable our children to be global citizens driven by a healthy passion for common and Community values but, in any case, capable of facing the challenges of the world. Europe is the place where today we face the difficulties and beauties of our time, not locked up in a vision entirely linked to the past and centered on regret, but with a curious, innovative vision. Europe is the place that can give kindness to the whole world, kindness in the political sense of the term (who of us knows and remembers the words with which Aung San Suu Kyi obtained the Nobel Peace Prize knows that speaking of kindness in politics is not talking about etiquette). Europe is the place where - a great European could say - globalisation can be civilised. This is Europe. Our semester wants to discuss these issues. He does not want to reason and reflect simply on a number, or on a comma-zero. This is why it is important to have a meeting on 8 July in Venice with Digital Venice, the event on innovation and technology, as it is important to keep technology together with public administration innovation, technology as a key to energy development. Today energy is partly technology, not only a source of resources; it is also the way in which these resources are shared. Technology today is the ability to create new jobs; technology today is start-up; technology is investment in the future. We moved the Turin Summit on 11 July to the end of the semester because we ask - I wrote it in the text that I delivered - to be able to discuss work at the end of the internal parliamentary path, hoping to be able to approve the delegation law by the end of the year: this is the bet that the majority does and that asks to win the Senate and the House. And at the same time because we think that at the end of the semester, towards December, we can also better evaluate the Youth Guarantee programme with its effects, saying from now on that for us it cannot be limited to a commercial intervention of a few months, but it must be properly verified, after the first experience, as one of the key elements of the coming months and years. On 16 and 17 October in Milan, we will welcome the Asian countries to the ASEM Summit and the comparison between Europe and Asia will take place. Then there is the commitment that we want to put - you will find in detail the indications of our view on the European summit - on the fight for a European policy worthy of this name on the issues of climate change, both in view of the United Nations Assembly on 22, 23 and 24 September 2014 and of the meeting in Paris, where we hope to bring Europe with one voice. The list of appointments continues and you will find it in the text I deliver to the Presidency. I would also like to leave you some reflections on the relationship that has been created and will be created in the coming weeks between the new European institutions and the citizens. It is on this point that I would like to close very quickly: this is not just a debate on monetary policy issues. Yet it would be interesting to reason on how money and finance are constituent elements of the wealth of a people, not just for the economic aspect. Today is June 24 and in my and our Florence is the day of St. John, the day of the patron in which the saint is remembered: the saint is imprinted as effigy in the guilder, which was the key currency of the globalization of the time. It would be very interesting to reason what Saint John means not to deceive you, but we will not be here to tease you about this. The point is that that monetary investment allowed that city and that economy to invest. To invest where? In education and culture. If there had been no scholarship funded by philanthropists and rich people of the time there would have been no Dante Alighieri studying in Santa Maria Novella. Had there not been the financial operations of the time and the economic investments, there would have been no shovels on the altars and the beauty of the history of art in that city. If there had not been the greatness of finance applied to culture, it would not have given rise to that extraordinary operation called the Renaissance. In the same way, monetary policy can only be incorporated into a broader framework today. On the other hand, in recent years - this is our thesis that you can verify in the text - monetary policy in Europe has been narrow and linked simply to a technocratic gaze and without broad horizons; it has been based on a criterion of economic rigour which has not been followed with a real investment on the living conditions of people. This element, which is considered and shared by many, has not, however, been sufficiently enriched by a self-criticism of politics. In fact, if politics says that this has happened, but does not tell what politicians did when they had the opportunity to change things and gave up in front of the status quo, it is clear that this look is partial and limited. It would therefore be very interesting if we could touch on these issues in the debate, but we will have to do so and we will do so from the European Council, starting from a point of evidence to all: today Italy is stronger. Today Italy is stronger for many reasons in this debate. It is strong because there has been a political outcome that has seen in this country a party get more than all other parties at European level. The most voted party at European level is an Italian party. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We do not, therefore, have a problem of disrespect for others or, vice versa, a vulnus of democracy; we are not afraid to confront ourselves on this. But Italy is strong in this debate also because it has recovered self-esteem and authority in order to be able to sit at European tables and say that we do not go to Europe to get a list of things to do to bring it home. We present ourselves to the European Semester with humble awareness, with the coriaceous determination of those who know that so much must be learned, but also that something must be given and said. Let us stop considering Europe as the place of those who preach to us or, worse still, of those who teach us. We have to learn from everyone, but history shows that Italy's strength is naturally given by the quality of its workers, by the positivity of the wealth of this country. In fact, we continue to talk about public debt - which is and is undeniable - but there is a private wealth and, sometimes, also public in Italy that has no equal in Western countries and that we must learn to value more and better, perhaps by making a system, as a country, instead of using Europe as a place where we can go to fight among ourselves. Recovering the pride of Italianness, understood not as a geographical boundary, but as a desire for future and desire for optimism, not generic and abstract, but linked to the possibilities of a radical change, is one of the conditions with which we go to sit at the European tables. We will do so with even greater determination if we draw strength from this debate and, more generally, from the parliamentary debate and in some way - let me say this - the willpower of those who know that, in the time we are living, politics is not a necessary accident, it is not a passing evil, but it is the condition for women and men to imagine a future that is up to the most beautiful dreams. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u6	I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta, No 2, Senator Bitonci and other Senators, and No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. Any further motions for resolutions should be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u7	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if I may sum up, I would say that you asked for two mandates: one on 25 May and it is right that you have mentioned that, because it is part of the way we are going to present ourselves in Europe; the other on 25 May you asked for it in the Chamber of Deputies and now in the Senate. I too will be brief, not for cross-cutting needs, but for the quota of time. We give you the mandate to make a different policy, not to go - as you said - with the hat in hand in Europe. Nobody, in fact, wants to go with any hat; not because we want to dump our inadequacy on Europe or perhaps entrench ourselves behind the easy alibi of Europe, but because we think that Europe no longer defends itself with the Euroretoric, with the evocation of the great founding fathers of the past, with the nostalgia of what we have managed to achieve, a great area of peace, freedom and democracy. Europe defends itself by profoundly changing European policy. We're at a crossroads today. Until now it has been thought illusory of defending Europe with the euro-retoric: today this speech does not attack anymore. Today Europe defends itself by saying: European policy must change stability is a value and growth is as much a value as stability. Perhaps it would also be appropriate to look at the United States of America which, with an expansive policy through which they have produced investments for research, development, technology and the environment, have managed to restart the country's economy. We therefore want an Italian Government to go to Europe and have the problem of radically changing European policy. We've had two signals. Yesterday that of Mrs Merkel - let us not deceive ourselves, however, friends and colleagues: Mrs Merkel simply and timidly gave a first signal - today that of Hollande, who presented an agenda for growth and change. This means that France and Germany, in particular, also have the problem of changing European policy. A Europe that cannot be just technocracy and bureaucracy, but must take responsibility for regaining the relationship with the peoples of Europe, who have largely believed in anti-European populism: let us not forget, because there will be new subjects in the European Parliament, which can also radically change the policy of the large European families. This is where we have to start again. I would also like to refer to the vision that citizens have of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u8	Senator Casini, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u9	CASINI (PI). I'm almost done, ma'am. A Europe that leaves us alone with regard to illegal immigration is a Europe that is unable to make a serious policy of rapprochement and to create a new feeling in its relationship with its citizens. President Renzi, Mare nostrum - as we said in this House 15 days ago - is an exceptional instrument: it cannot become normal. The theme of Frontex's involvement must be a priority to restore credibility to a Europe that knows how to deal with certain issues, without leaving only countries like Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Casini, but your time is up. As you know, times are contingent, and that applies to everyone. If you wish to do so, you may, however, give your statement in order to be annexed to the Report. CASINI (PI). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u10	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are indifferent to the Euroretorica no less than Senator Casini. Moreover, our country has had a good relationship with Europe, the least widespread was the Euroretorica: I am referring to the beautiful quote by Alcide De Gasperi from 1951 contained in the text that the President of the Council gave us. Precisely because we do not like the euro-retoric, we recognize ourselves in the priority indicated in Parliament today by the President-in-Office of the Council: Mare nostrum and, consequently, Frontex. If Europe wants to be an ethical place of conviction, but also an ethical place of responsibility, the issue of the 8,000 kilometres of coastline representing Italy's borders is not an Italian problem: it must be and must become a European problem. From this point of view - we said it here in the Senate 15 days ago, as my colleague Mr Casini reminded us - such a massive arrival of immigrants and an indiscriminate reception, such as the one that can legitimately invoke an authority such as the Pope or the one that, with a lot of Euroretoric, pleases the President of the House, are clearly incompatible. We must ask ourselves responsibly, not as Italy, but as Europe, if we have the necessary resources, which are also resources of flexibility, because whatever the dictates of the Dublin Convention, that of the first country of reception is mere rhetoric and of doubt good taste. We have a lot of friendship for Germany, a country that can sometimes afford the bad taste of giving us lessons of good European conduct or financial austerity, but that cannot condition its immigration to quotas compatible with its own production system. It is absurd that what Germany considers to be at its borders should not be a European matter. We are full of respect, we said in the Senate, for what ten years ago, in the insensitivity of Europe, Germany, also in order to modify its Constitution, had to do to welcome that emigration that came from the dissolution of communism. Compared to the tragedy of those 800,000 people who are gathering on the beach of Libya, Europe cannot turn their backs on another side; therefore, I say this with the brutality used by my friend Casini, Mare nostrum is not something we are ashamed of, but it is something that had a beginning, noble and generous in the aftermath of the events of Lampedusa, but that must end, unless it has its own European extension. I would like to make one final comment on this. Whatever the ride of government policies around the names, surnames and assignments of the new Commission, if Italy happens to be in charge of immigration we are sure that the Italian Commissioner, whatever political experience he belongs to, will not have the insensitivity that the Scandinavian Commissioner has had in recent months. In fact, Scandinavia for Scandinavia, Mr President, we appreciated how a small Scandinavian country, Norway, of which you received political leadership a few days ago, shared our positions on Europe and Mare nostrum. It will be very important to carry them forward. As far as employment policy is concerned, we hope that it will indeed be for the reasons you have indicated that the Turin Summit will be postponed from July to the end of our six-month term. If it were otherwise, it would be a way of presenting ourselves with little credibility on the eve of our semester. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u11	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u12	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw the attention of the Government to one of the main points of this debate, namely Operation Mare nostrum and Italy's international commitment. President Renzi said a moment ago (and again this morning) that we must continue this operation within Frontex; then there is someone who proposes to put the headquarters of Frontex in Italy, but having the seat of nothing in our country would not change the final product: Frontex, the European structure that should deal with the issues of immigration, has no incisive operational reality. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in order to draw the attention of the European Union and the UN, we must immediately block operation Mare nostrum, so that the international community becomes aware of a problem that affects all and not only Italy, which for geographical reasons is certainly more exposed than others. You have today criticized the European Union which deals with fishermen and less with other issues: then we denounce the hypocrisy of the European Union, which is able to make condolences visits when there are tragedies, but then did not move a finger to support Italy's action in the Mediterranean. Now that we have the Presidency in office, we are putting this common responsibility on the table by blocking this operation. I would also like to say to you that just now, Mr Renzi, Minister Pinotti, who is next to you, answering a question of mine in the Defence Commission, has not excluded that operation Mare nostrum can be included in the decree on military missions, colleagues of the Senate, the one that is renewed every six months. It would be absurd to say that Europe must take care of it and include Operation Mare nostrum in the decree-law on military peace missions. Those operations (from the mission in Afghanistan to that in Lebanon) have always had almost unanimous support, so including a divisive theme in that decree-law would be a serious mistake. You have already made a mess about the decrees, just read today's newspapers, because you have to make others. We warn you about this, as well as about the fact that we will look a lot at that decree even with reference to our Maroons. If Italy continues to engage military forces in the world, we want strong support from NATO, the European Union and the United Nations to move the dispute concerning our Navy rifles into international fora and no longer accept their illegitimate detention (because, in fact, this is what it is) in India. As far as Libya is concerned, today the "Corriere della Sera" once again denounces the dangers of what is happening there, as in Iraq and elsewhere. I hope that in this six-month Italian Presidency there will be realism on the part of the Government. In 2011 Silvio Berlusconi denounced the dangers of the war in Libya. He was mocked, but he had foreseen a vacuum that came true. And I would like to know from the President-in-Office what he thinks of the United States that in recent days they have gone to Libya to pick up a Ahmed Abu Khattala, who was considered responsible for the killing in Benghazi of the American ambassador to Libya. The Undersecretary is also present with delegation to the services, and I would like to know from the Government whether the United States has conducted that operation in Libya starting from their ships or from the base of Sigonella, which is American but located in Italy, or whether they have started from other place. Tell us, however, because we would like to understand whether Italy, on the one hand, transports illegal immigrants to our territory at our expense and whether, on the other, it allows Americans to make their wars trying to strike those who have committed kidnappings. Therefore, the Mare nostrum affair is fundamental for us in this six-month start, and on this I wanted to draw the attention of the Government, as well as in reference to the decree on military missions, which cannot be an improper instrument to continue this operation by means of the Armed Forces. We too are in solidarity with the Navy, victim twice: victim of a decree that certainly does not share and victim of an operation that is not of those primary to which our Navy should be used. We also remember, President Renzi, that some errors of Europe denounced them by the Berlusconi government in advance, paying a price. The mistakes of France and Germany are those that have brought Europe to its knees and forced Europe to review its policies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And not by chance! President Sarkozy was in fact overwhelmed by the mistakes he made, and then his successor Hollande was also overwhelmed. And Merkel's fuss today also changes its language a bit, because it no longer has the majority of seats in its German Parliament. We were right to denounce the limits of that policy. It is now up to Italy to impose a turning point on the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u14	Madam President, a few months ago President Renzi. When he came to the Senate to ask for trust, he argued his request explaining how Italy, if Italy had done, that is, if it had resumed to believe in itself and in its values, could have reversed that path, that decline towards the decline that characterized us and led all of us to be deeply pessimistic about our future. Today there is a new question that you come to ask: to ask Europe to be Europe. There are very high expectations about this new semester of Italian Presidency that is about to begin - perhaps even excessive expectations, in a certain way - because on the part of everyone, not only from the Italians, but also from the other countries, there is a need for a change of pace and to resume with new dynamism and enthusiasm a path interrupted a few years ago. For too long, Europe has only been talking about spending control measures; for too long Europe has only been talking about monetary policy: Europe has lost that path that made it seem to its neighbours a territory where hope was built for the whole continent and for mankind. Today we see this hope in the peoples living on the borders of Europe: we see it in Ukraine and on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, in how many men and women today risk their lives trying to enter Europe. We are indebted to them and to us to take up the path that leads Europe to be Europe. And I believe that with regard to the Italian Presidency today there is not only the expectation of introducing economic measures towards growth, but there is the expectation of taking up a path that gives ourselves the pride of being European. I think the Italian Senate has worked hard on this semester. Within the 14th Commission, an important work was carried out on in-depth study: a survey was carried out involving the social partners and local and regional authorities and involving the world of professions. Therefore, within the Senate there is a great knowledge and a complete awareness of the fact that crucial issues for the future of our continent are at stake today. I am sure you will find in this Senate a cross-cutting consensus on the importance of not losing this great opportunity, and I believe that there is no doubt a great willingness on the part of the whole Parliament to support the Italian Government's commitment. In many cases we have understood that today there is no longer only the need for a reform of the economic part, which has been introduced at the time with the fiscal compact, but there is also the need to introduce an industrial compact, that is to breathe breath into manufacturing activity. The Europe 2020 programme has set the target of restoring manufacturing-related GDP to 20%. I believe that this is important, because we are called to testify that the wealth of nations is not only a financial wealth, but it is a wealth that is based on work, education and research (the Horizon 2020 programme from this point of view must offer great opportunities to the world of Italian research). The wealth of nations must be based on the sharing of important values. You were right to recall, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your brief opening speech, that the last hundred years have begun with a war that has massacred entire generations, the First World War, which somehow ended only thirty years later. A few days ago we celebrated the pride of the landing in Normandy by so many men and women who came to our continent to bring this spirit of freedom. I believe - not to make rhetoric - that we owe them this need to resume together that flag of freedom and social values, for which these people have lost their lives. Therefore, I believe - and I conclude, Madam President - that we must, as a country that leads the European Union, find again without arrogance, but also without shyness, the pride of giving a soul to our continent and the pride of being Italians and Europeans. I speak not only as an Italian citizen and as a senator of this Republic, but I would like to speak as a simple and humble European citizen, who asks Europe and asks Italy to return to this path and to give a sense, pride and hope to the generations that today need to look to their future with confidence. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mario Mauro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to ask President Renzi: are you sure that 40% that you have announced before will be needed to go to Europe and be able to credit your Government as a politically strong and credible government? What is not so sure is if this corresponds to the reality regarding the state of our country, because in fact this is what we must talk about: not what appears, but what it is. What appears is very different from reality. Those who live every day in business or those who live every day the difficulty of finding a job know it well. Because you see, President Renzi, behind the slogans is the reality of a country that is on its knees and continues to remain on its knees. It is the photograph of a country that goes backwards, where to solve the problem of overcrowding in prisons the government has found no better solution than to open the prisons themselves and to get out rapists, snatchers, scammers and obviously put them back into circulation in our countries. It is a country that goes backwards, because to those who have remained in prison (or who have been there in the past months) goes even to give compensation of 240 euros per month, when the Italians give 80 euros. These are the real paradoxes that, frankly, we do not understand how they can allow them to have a clear conscience in describing this as a country in compliance with the expectations of the European semester. We are sure that you will be able to manage this important walkway opportunity to the best of your ability: you know how to manage your image well and, with this, you will be able to take advantage of it politically. The question we ask ourselves is: at what cost for the country. How much are his slogans - the slogans of his Government - to the royal country, to those who seek a job that is not ephemeral, but that gives serenity to the family; that country made by those who seek the serenity of work without having the worry of being robbed or thieves at home. Believe it, President Renzi: someone tells him that last week, for the twelfth time in five years, he had thieves in his own productive activity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I repeat: for the twelfth time in five years. When I was talking to the Carabinieri's Marshal, dismay was even worse than that of those who suffered this kind of affront. You see, President Renzi, security is not an ephemeral thing, but it is something that those who work ask the government, not only because they pay taxes, but because it is a right. The government asks citizens to pay taxes: citizens - honest ones - pay taxes, and they cannot be found equated or even slapped by a government that gives more space to illegals and thieves than those who work. I believe that this reality is not known to you, but, of course, you will have the opportunity, if you go by our side, to verify it with your hand. This is a country that emptys the prisons, but fills them - then - with those who want to proudly affirm their will of Venetian independence. This is the freedom that is proposed in a country that approves motions that claim freedom for the Saharawi people - just - and that then puts in jail those who, in their own country, have equally valid and sacred claims of freedom. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are the inconsistencies that you will have to bring with you with your luggage in Europe. You see, President Renzi, we are not interested simply in listing the problems of the country: we are interested that you do not mock the country, going above all to describe a reality that is very far from what we are facing every day. His minister Franceschini describes a very rosy country, which also attracts tourists, and then the reality is that we see in Pompeii, with 500 people who are left out of the excavations and do not even enter to visit one of the most important tourist and cultural realities of the South, and the government does not even beat a hint of response. However, we have become accustomed to paradoxes. As I said before, it is a government that has become accustomed to spending 1,000 euros a month to assist the illegals, when instead its young people are forced to emigrate abroad, as their great-grandparents did a century ago. These are the paradoxes, Mr President, that we would like you to resolve before you appear in Europe. The question of paying public debt is not simply a matter of business. This is what allows our companies to work and, despite the slogans, they still do not get paid, beyond the fact that there is a Community infringement and an open procedure. The reality is this: there needs to be a policy of serious investment support, but not the foreign investment of finance that comes to this country to feast on what remains of our best industry. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We need to revive the desire of this country to invest in its own industry, because it is from here that our workers have drawn resources. The Italian company has always given work and has never made finance, while we got used to the silence of the Government when Fiat does what the hell it wants and likes: it moves abroad, takes subsidies from the State, and everyone remains silent, perhaps because even some of its Minister was sitting on Fiat's board of directors. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] These are the inconsistencies, because, President Renzi, there are situations that could be healed simply by good will. It promises security to the citizens and then opens a competition to hire new police officers by also making the mess, by wronging questions and creating additional opportunities for appeal, when instead, simply, it would be enough to draw on the ranking, well known to this Senate Chamber, of the 512 agents that have never been hired by the State Police. I know that you, Mr President, know this problem well. Precisely because you know it, you have a greater responsibility than other ministers of your Executive who are unaware of this reality. You're going to have to answer the royal country, not the fairy tales you're going to tell. Yesterday said the president of Confindustria Squinzi that there is a sabotage to systematic growth: it is true. We are still waiting to understand what will be his reform of the public administration; a reform that seemed yet another omnibus measure, and we do not say it from the opposition benches, but says nothing less than the Quirinale: the umpteenth decree "pumpetone" with everything inside, in which nothing is resolved. But you go out with the slogans in the newspapers: reformed the public administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this remains a country - I am going to conclude - in which it takes seven years to have permission to open a store, eleven years to decide not to give permission to a regasifier and 170 days to simply decide whether to pay the debts of the public administration. Everything we see gives the idea of a country upside down: a country that is led to think that problems are solved with a goal to a football match. This is not the country we want: what we want is a real country, made of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u17	Senator Candiani, if you wish, you can deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u18	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u19	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u20	Madam President, I do not have much to say to President Renzi, apart from some things he knows very well, such as the fact that the policy of authority that has been imposed on us so far has brought nothing but intolerable unemployment, not to mention the tax burden, on which, despite the fact that Prime Minister Renzi wants to make him believe that it is not his responsibility, in fact the last supertax, the TASI, signed it himself, but he stated that he did not understand anything, contrary to the millions of Italians who have already paid it on 16 June. What we would like to ask President Renzi would be to cover all the constraints, including that of fiscal compact. Mr Renzi, if you listen to me, maybe I'll tell you what we're asking for. We would be interested in the revision, or rather, the complete abolition of the fiscal compact. However, since President Renzi does not listen to me, there is no point in moving forward, Madam President. I ask you to hand over my speech so that it is attached to the Report, so that we read it together with what he delivered. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u21	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u22	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Forza Italia is in opposition, but we hope that there will be conditions for cooperation on reforms. We do not like this Government, but we support with conviction that you and your Government can do our country's interests in Europe: the country needs it. Europe is in the middle of the ford; it has done things, above all it has determined seventy years of peace, but, at the same time, it does not do too much. You have to move on. We hope that in these six months there will be a breakthrough. I would like to draw your attention to the problem of the ECB. Until 2011, the ECB fought inflation: yet the economic crisis was already present since 2007-2008. Draghi put liquidity into the system, he changed it. We have moved on, but we have to go further. We believe that it is essential for the European Central Bank to be able to print the euro and to make a monetary policy as all the major countries do: the United States, Japan, Russia and China. Why should Europe not be able to do that? Let me give a small example of the cash that can be used: why can we not establish a rule that the cash circulating in Italy is the same as in France, Germany and other countries that are part of the euro area? Otherwise, we cannot really create the euro as the national currency of every country that is part of it. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to point out to you that if Minister Padoan wants to reduce taxes and if he does not want to replace certain taxes with other taxes, there is only one way: to be able to contain public expenditure. Well, Mr President-in-Office, you have made important announcements in this direction, but we have not yet seen concrete results. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u24	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u25	Madam President, dear President Renzi, Italian families look to the Italian Presidency of the European Union with renewed hope. They hope that, after the clear message given at the last elections, Europe will no longer represent the nightmare of technocratic austerity that has driven our country, immobile for too many years, into the most dramatic recession and unemployment since the post-war period. That nightmare must be driven out in the sound of reforms, in Italy and in Europe. Senator Candiani has now left the Chamber, but I believe there is a limit to the decency of parliamentary speeches and I believe that he has overcome it today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Italy has much to offer to Europe today. We just have to learn to look at the present and the future aware of our extraordinary realities, without which the European civil community would be poorer. Among the many examples that can be made I choose one: they are called Patrizia Caraveo, Andrea Cimatti, Paolo Giommi, Alvio Renzini, are the four Italians among the first hundred in the world at the top of the world's astrophysics research according to the analysis of the research institute Thomson Reuters. The 7th Senate Commission carried out a survey on the state of research in Italy and we listened to dozens and dozens of research bodies, proud of their work, already projected into a global work dimension, demanding more autonomy and above all freedom from bureaucratic procedures and from the constraints that equate them to the public employment. Basic research and applied research are the highways on which innovation must run, from which we can draw on to boost the competitiveness of Italian and European industry. Yes, we are the country of the "Great Beauty" which we must also know how to transform into wealth, as the new decree on culture and tourism intends to do, but we are also the country that has the finest companies of mechanics and packaging, world leader, thanks to the quality of its engineers. In the thousand days of your Government, in addition to achieving the European convergence objectives, we have the task of achieving internal convergence objectives. President, you often talk about school: do not stop doing so, even during the European semester, because if Europe is not just prescriptive rules and quirks, it is the common destiny of our children and a community of values, it needs more school, more education, more European mobility for students and teachers. Many recent research reports the high birth rate, the high unemployment of women, the educational poverty of children and girls who are going through Italy. Italy was born at school: while in Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany and in many regions of the North we have already reached 33% of cover of the nest places and we have a rate of female employment that puts us in order with Europe, in Calabria - Minister Lanzetta knows - only 2.1% of the children find a place in the nest and, as a consequence, the rate of female employment is equal to that of Pakistan. And so, without kindergartens and full time primary students in the South is as if they had attended two years less than school. A new national action plan is needed to ensure the same learning opportunities for all, from Bolzano to Lampedusa. If education, a fundamental lever for growth, inclusion, equality and freedom, is one of the founding values of the European Union, it cannot be seen as one of the costs and constraints of the Stability Pact to be respected. It must be seen as the largest and most urgent investment that the Union provides to the Member States for the construction of genuine European citizenship. The government has faced a national emergency, school building, with an injection of 2.5 billion to secure schools and build new ones that are also new learning environments. But it will not be the reforms from above that instruct teachers to revolutionize didactics to halve school dispersal and raise the levels of learning of Italian students: it is their professionalism that can make them leader of change, abandoning the frontal lesson and recovering involvement and responsibility of the result. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Mr PUGLISI (PD). For this reason, I suggested merging INDIRE and INVALSI into a single national evaluation institute for evaluation and educational research. I close my speech with a comparison. It was the teachers and teachers with their incessant work that really made the unity of Italy, because the lack of education prevented the Italians, more than anything else, the conscious participation in the social and political life of the new State. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, please. The minutes at your disposal are over. Otherwise I'll have to take your word for it. Mr PUGLISI (PD). It is therefore the teachers today who can rewrite new words and shared values for Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u26	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I have listened carefully to the statements made by the President of the Council and I note that from his words there is a marked change of direction in the representation of our relations with the rest of the Union. It could be said that there has been a lack of self-esteem, admirably impersonated by the Presidents of the Council who preceded it (almost a inferiority complex that manifested itself with a series of locutions attributable to "ce" Europe asks for it), to a somewhat Gascony attitude, which will not fail to raise the morale of those who, in front of television, hope for some revenge from their economic life. It was perhaps desirable by a young, optimistic and willing President of the Council. A veritable explosion of self-esteem. However, we must not escape from a healthy bath of realism: the high morale, as the military well know, helps, but does not replace ammunition and equipment. Europe in recent years has lived under dictation of its richest part. It has been thought, and some still believe, that the medicine against the crisis is rigor. A blind rigor to its effects and deaf to the suffering of people. The euro, which, in the absence of a coordinated fiscal policy of the Union, is seen as a symbol of oppression, is a penalty perfectly represented by the single currency. We have sought, and are still seeking, the salvation of families through the restarting of businesses, where small and medium-sized enterprises are spoken of, but we look at and work for multinationals, which are better able to represent their own interests. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have told us that you feel able to embark on an intense battle to change towards Europe, but from this point of view I would suggest that you remove your commendable optimism of the will with a little salubricism of reason. You spoke of raising the bar of our ambitions. We ask you to be consequent, but this also means raising your voice with our partners, where they end up in a stubborn denial. With what demands? To put it bluntly, we think that in 2003 Germany was right to ask for 3% in the deficit-GDP ratio. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Campanella. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). And that we are wrong not to push, for us and for all the countries of the Union in difficulty, for the suspension of that threshold; or for the non-accounting of expenditure for certain types of investment (I think of the transformation of the ways of energy production, which would reduce our dependence on fossil sources and therefore on non-EU countries); or for the creation of European bonds to mutualize public debt and thus remove from the grip of financial speculation the partners in difficulty... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Madam President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u28	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for a few weeks now we have become accustomed to the announcements of this Government. You, Mr Renzi, must recognize this, you are a great communicator, because you are able to convey your proclamations quickly, and you do not miss the opportunity to boast of 40.8% of the consensus achieved in the last European elections, forgetting not only that 40.8% is a part of that 53% of voters who went to vote, but, more importantly, that the remaining 47% did not trust you either. He has made so many announcements in these first four months of government, Mr Renzi, to the point that Italians almost fail to keep up with her, victims of that sensationalism that distinguishes her and that unfortunately, if you are not careful, risks making you forget the many promises that she is already not keeping. On 25 February, when he came to this House to ask for trust, he told us that he would invest in renewable energy. "We have in mind," he said on that occasion, "to make an industrial plan on renewables because we believe that new employment opportunities, new jobs can be created from this sector." However, it seems only good intentions, due to the news coming from the Ministry of Economic Development and some press indiscretions about the imminent enactment of the decree so-called spread incentives for owners of renewable energy plants over 200 kilowatts. It is a decision, stigmatized also by the "Wall Street Journal" and the "Finncial Times" which would penalise small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, putting at risk as many as 10,000 jobs, and block a positive trend that from 2008 to 2012 has seen increased the production of renewable energy in our country from 20 percent to 34 percent. Would this, Mr Renzi, be your idea for achieving the objectives contained in the framework for energy and climate policies for the period from 2020 to 2030 and for changing towards Italy? We hope that, by enlightening ourselves on the road to Damascus, he will abandon the propaganda on renewables as soon as possible and that he will devote some of his spare time to deepening the knowledge of the sector and the benefits that have been derived from it and which could still be derived. Italy will never be able to start again economically if we stop at words. How long have we been talking about the breakdown of expenditure on infrastructure investments, the prevention of seismic and hydrogeological risk, research and safety of public buildings from the rigid deficit-to-GDP ratio to 3%, on which we would fully agree? Yesterday there was also a timid opening of Chancellor Merkel, who suggested greater flexibility on the Stability Pact, but the real issue is to allow the virtuous municipalities, which do not have budget deficits, to be able to derogate and return to spending in works and services that would produce a direct and immediate benefit for the community both in terms of services and in the possibility of getting the economy back on track. Allow me, finally, to mention two further issues. One is immigration, for which I agree on the necessary European contextualisation of the Mare nostrum operation, which has so far been cleared by the European Union only on the shoulders of southern Europe and borne by Italy. The other is the contrast to the counterfeiting of products, on which it is necessary in the next semester of Italian Presidency a greater commitment of the Italian Government to the strengthening and coordination of the regulations at European level. President Renzi, we hope that your mandate... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u31	Senator, you can hand over the surgery if you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u32	BLUNDO (M5S). I would ask you to attach the full text of the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Tomaselli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you referred in your speech to the recent European vote which clearly and plastically expressed the deep rift that flows through our continent's belly with regard to the prospects of the Union. The vote gives not only to the Democratic Party, but to Italy as a whole the hope that we can get out of such a serious crisis in our continent with more solidarity, with more incisive and less rigid common policies. In short, from Italy, from one of the countries that has suffered the most from the consequences of such a long crisis and the strict financial constraints, comes the strongest push to a Europe that is more supportive, more social and more inclusive. This vote has arrived a few days after the start of the Italian semester leading the European Union: a coincidence that tells us that it is up to us, it is up to Italy, it is up to you, President Renzi, in the next six months to build the conditions to achieve a real turning point in the recent history of the European dream, from too tarnished because of too many egoisms and internal imbalances. In fact, we have known in recent years the Europe of rigidity and compatibility contained in the famous sentence: Europe is asking us to do so. We must now succeed in making Europe affirm opportunities and growth. It won't be easy. The economic recovery in Europe, as timidly in Italy too, is still too weak and contradictory. In fact, we risk living in the coming months, in Europe as in Italy, a great unbearable paradox: the great crisis, which in recent years has burst as a crisis in the financial markets, for those same markets is now over, while for those who more than others have suffered it on their own, for families, workers, young people, companies, for all of them the crisis is still all there, showing signs of a real social devastation. The European Commission has done well in recent months to show attention to the real economy with the communication to the European Parliament entitled 'For a European Industrial Renaissance'. It seems to me that you too, Mr Renzi, have repeatedly shown great interest and attention to this prospect in recent days. Moreover, our country is the highest manufacturing tradition in Europe; it is the country not of the caricature of the so-called small is beautiful but of an original and solid presence of small and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. We know that no process of relaunching our industrial heritage can be realized without a favourable environment in Europe, as well as in Italy, made of far-sighted choices in the regulatory and common policies, as well as modern and integrated infrastructures in the fields of information, energy, transport, space and communications networks. These will be the sectors on which more than others will be measured a stronger competitiveness of European industry, a real revival of investment and domestic consumption and the ability to finally bring to solution the abyssal difference of speed of development between the internal areas of Europe and Italy (with particular reference to our Mezzogiorno). In this time so hard for so many who suffer a crisis that they have had to suffer from the failures of policies and economic events for which they have no responsibility, a crisis that not everyone has experienced in the same way, for some dramatic, for few, very few opportunities to increase their fortunes, there can no longer be untouchable shrines, neither in Italy nor in Europe, beginning with the irresponsible guardians (in the etymological sense of the term) of an economic and financial order that has produced huge failures for many and opportunities for few. That's why, President Renzi...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u34	I invite you to conclude, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u35	Mr Tomaselli (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. For this reason, if I can afford to express a wish to you and Italy, I hope to bring to Europe, in addition to your determination, the anxiety of reforms that can no longer be postponed in the name of equity and social justice that rises from our country and the anxiety of the better future that comes from the new generations of our country, those generations many times called Erasmus. Perhaps the most pro-European generations have always been. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] Madam President, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be published in the annex to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u36	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u37	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will support the effort that President Renzi outlined in his speech, that profound change in the European political and economic agenda necessary to relaunch growth and work, the effort to define the necessary structural reforms at national level, the effort to strengthen Europe's role in the world. If there is one thing that has not come down from the elections, it is precisely the need to place at the centre of the legislature what we have called the European reform of Italy, that is, the reforms necessary for the full integration of Italy into the new Europe. Today more than ever the choice that the country must make is that for or against the profound transformation of Italy. Today more than ever the real watershed of Italian politics is not the one between the old left and the old right: the real discrimination is between those who want to take the opportunity offered by the crisis to trigger a process of alignment of Italy to the best European standards and those who think this project is unrealizable. We do not give up thinking that these things can be done in Italy. In the situation in which we are the country needs change, needs confidence, needs reforms and can no longer afford the cultural delays of the old politics. Looking at some of the speeches I have heard, I am but an expression of what Riccardo Perissich called the "complex of Calimero": that systematic victimism that has plagued our country in all its European adventure, to which it is worth mentioning because it is always accompanied - this is the point - by distrust in being able to successfully face as a national community the challenge of modernity that comes from Europe. The economic difficulties have brought out all the nostalgics of the old statism and new protectionist currents. Europe in this context has been pointed out as an accomplice to international capitalism. It would be the instrument used to deprive our country of its heritage and control of its economy with the outline of dark conspiracy, conspiracy between Italian and international potentates on the pandile of the Queen of England. The euroscepticism of our home is therefore very different from that of the other countries; it nourishes of a particular vision of Europe, it has nothing to do with the Anglophil liberals, but rather it is the product of the necessity - today evident to all - to bridge the gap between words and facts, between the pro-European rhetoric and the concrete choices of internal politics. There is no point: in order to be a protagonist of Europe we must be able to be a protagonist of ourselves, because most of our problems are internal and come from afar, since, for example, the decline of our educational system, the collapse of the judicial system and the stagnation of investments are not born today. You can count, Mr President, on the electoral victory of the populists and above all on the perception of a serious determination to carry out the structural reforms promised in Italy. In order to really weigh in Europe it is not necessary - as has been said - to raise your voice, but it is this determination that matters most. Italy offers an extraordinary opportunity to regain a leading role, also because going back is not an option. It's not gonna be like it used to be. The world is changing whirlwindly. When historians, in a hundred years, look at the early years of the century, the most important event will probably not be the financial crisis that has gripped the Western world for years. The most important reality will be what Americans call the rise of the rest : the rise of the rest of the world; the growth, awakening, of countries like China, India, Brazil and many others (the list is endless): the largest mass exit from poverty in world history. It is a growth that is more visible in Asia but is not confined to Asia: more than thirty African countries (two thirds of the continent) have grown since 2007 at a rate above 4% per year. Moreover, the old order born from the ruins of the Second World War is in danger of collapse. America no longer has the scale nor the strength nor the internal consent to act as the Atlas that holds the world on its shoulders by providing it with economic locomotive and military security. It is not written anywhere that decline and decadence are an inevitable destiny and outcome. Technology, the role of immigration, improvements in health, standards that encourage greater participation of women in the economy are just some of the measures that could change current trends. But our future is necessarily linked to that of our European partners, and it is a matter of taking full advantage of the lesson of the eurozone crisis as a consequence of the incompleteness of the path followed by the Union after Maastricht. What is needed, in fact, is not only a monetary policy, but a fiscal, budgetary and macroeconomic policy that is truly European. It is towards a more federal Europe, more integrated and stronger in its ability to speak and act in unison that is inevitable (and I also say indispensable) Move. It goes without saying that the main objective of the coming months will be to fully overcome the economic and financial crisis and relaunch the growth of the Union. The government has done well to press for appointments that are not based solely on criteria or geographical schemes, but have strong political content, and it has done well to suppose the exchange between a reform package and the use of flexibility margins. But we also need expansive policies, which drive growth in Europe, by Germany and the other active countries, and also by the Union, through the federal budget, as the Americans do, which use the federal budget in an expansive way. This means that Italy must take the lead, together with the other founding countries of Europe, in order to bet on political union, on the United States of Europe. The second point, which I would like to make very briefly, is the energy issue. If incentives were needed to convince Europe to finally pose the problem of an energy security policy worthy of this name, then after Ukraine there are incentives. Not to mention that the shale oil, costing today a third of the imported one in Europe, is destined to give a huge competitive advantage to the American industry, not only in the field of energy industries, but also of manufacturing and services. In other words, the competitiveness of the European industrial system, already affected by the industrialisation processes of emerging countries, is now also threatened by the strong and predictable new development of US industry. We need an immediate response: we must put in place immediately the European energy policy that has not been able to launch for years. The European Council must be moved to accept the idea that national sovereignty in this area must at last be deprived, even in this area, at least in part. The third aspect that must affect the European condition is the creation of the single Euro-American market, represented by the Transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP), provided that the transatlantic negotiations on trade and investment are conducted knowing what this is about: a great political opportunity for the West, perhaps the last, to be able to influence decisively, through an agreement that affects almost half of the world's GDP, rules and principles for the functioning of the global economy. American availability has a strategic significance. Of course there is an economic reason: like Europe, after the crisis America also needs to increase exports; with the largest free trade agreement ever achieved Europe and the United States would create a giant single market. But the scope of the negotiations is aimed at building a more structural and, above all, a more political relationship with Europe: the possibility of the idea of a global market between democracies, with a Euro-American pillar at the centre. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked this morning what the role of Europe in the changing world is. Here, I try to tell you - as you have urged Parliament to do - what kind of political horizon the design of a Europe that civilises globalisation must have. There is a threat to global stability represented by the emergence of Nations based on the destabilizing model of authoritarian capitalism. There is the possibility of giving a new vision, an extrovert mission to Europe, which will make European integration at geopolitical and economic level productive and solid. America is too small to stand alone as the world's governor and locomotive. Its imperial capacity, while remaining economic and military superpower, has run out and there is no single Western nation that can aspire to succession. The Euro-American core can act as a magnet for the inclusion of other democracies in the global alliance between them. We can move from the centrality of a leading nation to the model of alliance between converging democratic nations and spread the democratic model on the planet. This is not a millenarian dream. Spreading the democratic model means reducing external aggression and creating a market less exposed to the risks of war; promoting political and financial stability, because democracy regulates in a non-controversial way the changes of power; achieving the objective of a democratic capitalism, which involves a more widespread and unfocused wealth. This is Europe's new mission. In the period of the American pax Europe has enjoyed a protection that has temporarily isolated it from historical normality. The story is back today. You called back the centenary of the Great War. I come from Gorizia, a symbol of World War I on the Isonzo front. In Italian it says Gorizia, in German Goerz, in Slovenian Gorica and in Friulano Gurizze. We have never doubted that we are part of a common European history. We have never doubted on that side of cultivating a common destiny and even common values. Today that history is back, if the United States and Europe want to be at the forefront of the world scene they will have to do it together, otherwise no one will be able to do it. This is the horizon that the semester should outline. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u39	He is registered to speak Senator Mario Mauro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u40	(at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u41	Mr President, in participating in the government, I wish you well for the first six months, especially so that our Executive in this six-month period can be decisive for the re-starting of the European project, I would like to speak on the aspect of flexibility. The issue of flexibility, in fact, is not only about economic and financial aspects, but is a direct element of all the policies of the European Union and, above all, is resolved with respect to a question that remains vital for the continuation of this project. The question is as follows: at this moment how can we overcome most of the questions that concern the future of the European Union, if we do not have the political strength, on the basis of the latest political results, to deal with the reform of the Treaties? It is true, in fact, that many of the European issues can be addressed and resolved by entering into the substance, without having to address the node of the Treaties. As regards, for example, foreign and defence policy, the EEAS (European External Action Service) appears to be a project that is worn out with a tendency to nothing, if we consider that the European Union continues to represent itself in the forums of merit through the embassies of the 28 Member States. The addition to them, therefore, of the representation of the European Union merely translates a kind of image of impotence which compares the European Union to a kind of non-governmental organisation. 18.02) (MAURO Mario followed). With regard to the issue of enhanced cooperation, it has basically died and remains in the background the almost dramatic aspect of a European Union which, unable to achieve full unanimity on many issues, is dragged by indecision in in indecision rather than by decision in decision in decision. Finally, the neglected image of States struggling to take the initiative feeds the heat of those who have stopped - and for some time - believing in the European Union. In the end, therefore, the issue of courage seems to be reflected in this: all those who continue to say that they are "euro-convincing," just being able to upset the answers that the Union should give to the problems of citizens, show themselves to the public rather than as "euro-enthusiasts" as "euro-cretins," determining at this moment the tragic end of our hopes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I hope, therefore, that the example that the Italian Government will be able to give in these six months of Presidency will be able to relaunch, and forcefully, the European integration project. [[Applause from Senators D'Onghia and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u43	Madam President, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I do not see in this House. I hope he will be watching the kick-off of a match in Brazil, while we play the game in Italy, looking at Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Ferrara.]] Apart from this initial consideration, I would nevertheless like to express my satisfaction at a programme which seems ambitious and courageous and which the President of the Council resigned this morning to the House and this afternoon, handing over the text of his speech to the Senate Assembly. I particularly appreciated, among other things, the effective image of a Europe which is no other than our daily life, but which is closely linked, instead, with everyday life and with our problems. I think it is right here to start to understand what remains to be done. As you said, Mr President, no one in our place can authorize us to do Italy. If Italy makes Italy - he said - I believe that the process of European unification can definitely change and very quickly. All this is indeed a valuable contribution that we Italians can make to the revival of Europe. I am convinced, in fact, that what is happening and what has happened in the European Union has little to do with the global economic crisis and much more with the crisis of a political project, which appears to many as the most direct defiance of a path of sharing that had seen the work of Europe at the beginning. Moreover, it is probably due to the need for European leadership, under the obvious German hegemony, to consolidate an increasingly efficient, increasingly centralised structure, even at the cost, as we have seen, of losing a few pieces on the street. In this sense, the declared openings by the German Government, of which today's press reports, can only be read with a favourable hope: what is still possible is to resume that path inscribed in the tradition of political thought and of the constitutional history of Europe, according to which sharing and solidarity, in the form of the guarantee of the autonomy and the guilds, territorial and not territorial, and the rights of individuals and communities have been fundamental elements of the delicate balance between the powers. I therefore hope that Europe will not be over, but it is going through a period of crisis which must be managed as an opportunity for re-foundation. Europe will be the one that will emerge from a renewed constituent design that can take due account of its true nature, written in its history and geography. In other words, we are going to Europe, to this Europe of our everyday life, but President - who I regret is not present - let us all go there, in accordance with the spirit of social inclusion that has been mentioned several times in his valuable speech. However, I have a duty to remind you here that we must go to Europe but we must all go there, and if this means creating a future of growth and employment, let us bear in mind that in Italy in 2013, the average unemployment rate was 12.2%, in the South it reached 19.7%. In short, the unemployment rate peaks in the Mezzogiorno, right now, in 2014, with 21.7 percent and reaches among young people aged between fifteen and twenty-four even 60.9 percent, that is 61 percent; that is to say, 350,000 young people seeking work in the South, equal to 15 percent of the population in this age group. Will Europe maintain its support for economically disadvantaged areas or will it choose to abandon them to its own destiny? President Renzi recalled that Europe was very good at turning to the other side when it comes to men: it happened to the refugees, but also to the people of the South: let us remember the Greek experience, for those who had forgotten it. In Italy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, almost all the municipalities are forced into bankruptcy. According to data from the Svimez (Association for the Development of Industry in the Mezzogiorno), over the last twenty years, out of 8,000 municipalities, 445 are those that at least once declared bankrupt (in Calabria one in three; one in five in Campania), yet these devastated realities of the South, poor among the poor, are the only ones capable of interventions of solidarity and gratuitousness. The President-in-Office of the Council has done well to recall the thousands of refugees arriving on our shores in search of better living conditions. Probably the President of the Council does not know that, from a research carried out by the Institutes of Psychology of the Universities of Eastern Sicily (research that is carried out through interviews), it turns out that 90 percent of the youngsters who arrive alone, say they have arrived for the simple reason that the parents have put aside a bundle to send them beyond the Mediterranean in the hope of a better life, as our grandparents did by sending our fathers abroad or to the North of the country, with the suitcase with the laces, investing on them all their savings. As it is today with respect to the 30,000 graduates who in the last five years have left the regions of the Mezzogiorno, this time with the investment made in training and with the good dress, to search for location in the North of the country or, even, beyond the Alps. If this has been the case, it has been for an irresponsible European policy. It was 1995 when a conference was held in Barcelona in which the European partnership was decided: it was about free travel of goods and peoples, but everyone remained in their own country. President Prodi, who became President of that Italian Presidency for a few weeks, reminded everyone: "We will share everything, but the institution " - that is, we will all be free, pass people and goods, but everyone stays in their own country. Instead, in 2004 Europe's policy changed: there was no more talk of free trade but of neighbourhood relations, in the interest of Germany. A great responsibility, which is on everyone's conscience. What do we have today? The European Union is today represented by a very questionable agency, which is Frontex, born to protect the borders and which represents the absolute contempt of what had been declared in free travel. Mr President-in-Office of the Council (which is not there), I would like to reiterate my point of view. The Italian Presidency of the European Union will be a success if it will be able to give the inhabitants of the southern areas of our country, who generously spend themselves on the refugees of the Mediterranean, poor who help the poor when the rich turn their heads elsewhere, a reason to be proud of being Italian and European. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the President-in-Office of the Council used a concept that I very much like: he spoke of a challenge. Politics today must be able to raise the bar, giving a firm and convinced answer to the great question of change that crosses the country. I was elected to a region, the Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol, where every day the citizens ask us to work for a country that will stop showing weakness with the strong and strong with the weak; a country with a leaner bureaucracy, a simpler tax, a public administration that accompanies the citizens, the young people who want to make their talent live, the enterprises that want to bet on themselves; a country with a faster justice; a country that in Europe knows how to assert its own reasons, that are those of a season of growth and recovery, in which the center returns the ability to think of the future not as a horizon of threats, but as a space in which everything is to be invented, everything is to be built. If the challenge that the President-in-Office of the Council has set us, with the frankness and concreteness that belong to him, then that is the challenge, we are ready to do our part. The Commission has shown courage to date. The reform of the tax system and that of the public administration are measures that go in the right direction. But there is still a long way to go and we want to take it all. That is why we will be tabling amendments to the measures I have mentioned in order to increase their impact on people's real lives and their capacity to promote economic recovery. We need to lower the tax burden and reduce the cost of the lives of companies and people, caused by the (sometimes Kafkiana) farraginosity of public administration, by its showing almost satisfaction in the face of the suffering and difficulties of citizens. We need an IRS that rewards the virtuous and that encourages that desire for enterprise that is part of the DNA of the Trentinos and all the Italians, but that too often has been mortified, almost as if it were a fault to want to work, to want to grow, to want to bet on himself and on the others. We need to focus strongly on our excellences. Agriculture remains a strategic sector for us, because it is able to support the growth of other sectors; I think of the agro-food supply chain, made in Italy, tourism, the fruitful graft with knowledge and skills only apparently distant, the fact that agro-food represents a sector of great opportunities for the younger generations. Just as we need to deal with the emergence of youth unemployment. The President of the Council mentioned the reform of the work done in Germany. Here, we believe that the ratio of that reform is also the right one for Italy, starting with a strengthening of apprenticeship, to create an even stronger synergy between school and work (more than the Poletti decree did), endowing us with rules that encourage recruitment, starting with intrinsically flexible sectors such as the tourism sector and agriculture itself. We also need an institutional architecture that gives more expertise to the territories, so that a culture of responsibility grows strong, because it is above all through the territories and the fact that they manage to fully live their identity and their vocation that wins the challenge in Europe and in the global world; many diversity, but they must finally succeed in making system. This is what the citizens of my region and all those of the special autonomy ask. It is the demand of a fully modern state and with authoritative and just institutions, of which it is possible to have confidence and which are reliable. In order to overcome the challenge, however, we all know that we need another Europe. The President is right to tie the challenge of Italian change with the European game, because in order to win one we must win the other too; a reality that Italian politics did not want to take note of, in the strange belief that Italy was a separate system and should not respond to anyone. However, we need a Europe in which the dogma of pure austerity is finally broken. We believe that a progressive strategy is needed to break it; we believe that the margins that the rules give us to break it must be exploited to the maximum, with a very strong focus on competitiveness, mobility and work, in order to try in the medium term to change those rules that are jeopardising the very existence of Europe, because not only Italy, but the whole world needs Europe. Those migrants who face the Mediterranean coast every day need it; an emergency that Italy alone is unable to deal with and for which everyone's contribution is needed, as the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said. All peoples who believe in the values of freedom, peace and respect, but also of legality, need it. I personally tried again a few weeks ago, participating in the Vilnius Summit of Members of the NATO member states; a tense and delicate summit on the facts of Ukraine. Europe must play its part here, but, in order to do so, it needs to be credible first of all in the eyes of its citizens. The President took the point: Europe cannot be the place where permissions and authorisations are sought. Europe, on the other hand, must be an idea that takes shape in everyday life. For us who live in frontier regions is a natural vocation; the one that has led over the years to the intuition of the Euregio Trentino-Alto Adige-Tirolo or to imagine a trilingual formative system; all processes that have begun, but needing Europe, a new Europe, to be completed. That is why the President is right when he says that European elections cannot and must not be reduced to appointments between this or that country, between this or that political family. It has happened that millions of citizens have deserted the ballot boxes, because on the one hand they have seen the loss of the original intuition of Europe, they have seen the passion of the beginnings, and because, on the other hand, there is a policy that as a whole is not able to interpret the fears and hopes of people. As political secretary of a territorial party, such as the Trentino Tyrolean Autonomous Party, I am well aware of the perception of this inability of politics by the citizens. Every day we touch it with our hands and, in our little one, we challenge it by trying to sew the picture through a constant attention to the needs, the instances and the lives of the people. The subject, in fact, is above all this. Fighting austerity also serves to intertwine again the noble dimension of Europe with a concrete one, which concerns the daily lives of its citizens. It was right, Mr President, to mention Ypres and the significance that he has in particular this year. Not surprisingly, in Trentino, the dramatic front of the First World War, for the centenary we coined the slogan: "From war to peace." On the places of war we build peace. So let me tell you with an image: you need to see again the thread that combines Ypres with the low cost ticket and the dreams of a boy leaving for the Erasmus project; the thread of those who make us say that Europe is more than a monetary union, but a real community that has chosen and built a different destiny and wants to resume to do so, putting its peoples at the centre again. In a few days the Italian Presidency begins. Our country comes to us in a politically optimal condition: our President, together with Angela Merkel, is the only President to have won the elections at the end of May. This gives him great authority, but also a great responsibility. We believe that this opportunity must be exploited to the maximum: there is also the possibility of overcoming the challenges of our home. As I said, we autonomouss are ready to hire them, even if we realize that they are very difficult challenges; but we must win them for the good of our territories and that of the whole country. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u48	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, we were wondering whether President Renzi could attend between the first and second half of the game. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u49	The Government is present.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u51	Mr President, I would just like to say one thing: I have spent twenty-five minutes in strict silence listening to the President-in-Office of the Council, who has come to repeat a bigin' of what he has said in the House of Deputies. It is unworthy - I say unworthy not to be vulgar - that twenty-three minutes have already passed and the President of the Council is outside the Chamber. I was polite and I listened to him... [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u52	I always sense that the government is represented here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u53	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I am speaking, Madam President, to my fellow senators and members of the Government: refer them to your President. I repeat: to your President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Your President says: we do not go to Europe to get the list of things we have to do. Perfect. You're absolutely right. President, you go tell them what you're doing. Go talk about unemployment, the real priority of this country, not Senate reform or what you might be trying to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] We have unemployment of 13.6 per cent and youth unemployment of 43.3 per cent, against German youth unemployment of 7.9 per cent. Go explain to Mrs Merkel what it's like to have young unemployed people! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, explain how your attempts to create jobs have failed. Explain how the work decree failed: you came to the Chamber a year ago to tell us the story of the magician Zurlì, telling us that, with that decree, made with European funds, you would create new jobs. To date, you have created nothing: go explain it to your European friends. He also asked Frau Merkel for advice on how they managed to implement the social security counter-reform: a four-year reduction in retirement age and an increase in figurative contributions to working mothers. Maybe, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tell a loud voice what you have done to our pensioners. Speak loudly about the Fornero reform and what created that reform. Go tell them. Meanwhile, between a selfie and a tweet, I would also tell the abracadabra of 80 euros. But do not forget, Mr President, to say how it will recover the funds, how it will slaughter public administration, how it will take away 150 million euros on state television and how it will tax banks (to the detriment of taxpayers). In Europe, Mr President, you will be asked about energy policy, which is absent from our country. But, as you usually do, you can change the subject, putting on the table the successes achieved in the cultural and tourist field - right, Senator Puglisi? - with Pompeii closed due to a union meeting; with the Colosseum at risk closing a few weeks ago [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Serra and Bignami]] and with our country that loses positions in the topic of tourist attraction. Among other things, there are EUR 105 million for Pompeii coming from Europe. Go explain to Europe that you are unable to use them. Between a dinner and a meeting I would swell my chest remembering foreign policy, and that in foreign policy we are a power. Ridiculous statements on the Ukraine case when the Ukrainian crisis occurred; embarrassing the foreign policy of this Government to protect our fellow countrymen abroad. Let me remind the President-in-Office of the Council of one word: Mr Marò. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Remember the word I will send to our President-in-Office, who is unable to take them home. Is it not appropriate for the technocrats of Europe to talk about the Stability Pact? Also because you have been the mayor, President of the Council, and therefore this should be your own priority, because you have been mayor and you know what it means to come across the Stability Pact. Just as it should be a priority of its ministers, who are here to listen to us, to settle the debts of the public administration: we pay - when we pay - 210 days late. We're the only country in the world where companies fail for credit to public administration. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do your friends in Europe know about this? You tell her, always between selfies. Bring the immigration situation to Europe's attention: tell Europe that 58,000 illegal immigrants have arrived in six months. Remember that we, Italian Government, have operation Mare nostrum, that it is not solving anything, but that it has transformed the ships of our Navy - before there was someone who thanked them - into cruise ships. I, who work in the world of tourism, tell you that you spared asking the cruisers for a loan ship. Explain that a clandestine in Italy takes home more than 35 euros per day and a disabled 14: it is shameful. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] Show the reports on the risk of diseases that had disappeared in Italy for years. Be explained by associations like Save the children that end the minors who arrive in Italy. Let him explain. Monitors how illegal guests are managed in hotels. In Robbio, last week, 28 illegals were distributed in hotels: in two days everyone disappeared. Great. Finally, explain to your European friends why a criminal in prison brings home 240 euros a month. His government, however, tells us that there is no money for law enforcement, school or decent people who need it, not for criminals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, I shall conclude, so that I do not take too much time and so at least the President of the Council can see Balotelli quietly. Senator Candiani said earlier that his company was robbed twelve times, and the League applauded this statement. The President of the Council has been ironic. Unfortunately I have a nice view and I saw him laughing wondering why the League had applauded. Let me explain: the League applauded those honest entrepreneurs who, despite your Government, remain in Italy and do not go abroad. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We applauded that. Tell Mr. Renzi that he may be excited about Balotelli's goal with Mrs. Kyenge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u55	Madam President, we have been waiting for today's speech in the Chambers to learn about our country's political priorities and policy lines for the European Semester: a unique opportunity that must be used to regain political weight to Italy within the Union, but also to give a strong impulse to turn what everyone calls the old Continent towards a process of change, renewal and profound innovation. This is an appointment that, precisely because of its importance, would perhaps have deserved more preparation, even in the Chambers discussion. President Renzi is right: what we are facing is a very important six-month Presidency, and not just because immediately following the elections for the renewal of the European Parliament, an electoral transition that has constituted a real earthquake both in Europe and in Italy, delivering the affirmation in many countries of formations of the extreme right or populist. It is these ideas that must be fought absolutely immediately, putting politics at the centre and building a rich agenda for growth and for the protection of rights. 6.30 p.m. (Follow STEFANO). Only in this way will we be able to shorten the distance between Europe and its citizens. It is also a very important semester because Europe must change, because it cannot remain indifferent - for example - to those electoral results that have blatantly rejected the austerity policies, which have hitherto been dictated, as the only recipe against the crisis. It is a very important semester because we are waiting for a crucial step: to build a dialogue between European progressive families to change direction and approach and finally close with the logic of rigour. President Renzi said well in the opening: today he has the cards in order to do so, strong of the electoral success and of the consent obtained in our country; success that has certainly increased also the expectations of the Italians and that charge, in this passage, Italy and its Government of ulterior responsibilities. It is an important six-month period, because the institutional structures of the Community will be decided and the work of the next five years will be set in the direction in which the policies of the European Union will have to move. That is why I believe that our country can, indeed, have the ambition to be able to mark the step, to try to get out of the shell in which it has been locked up for too long to put in place a new courage, able to make us incisive and - why not - to make Italy become the creative engine of the European future, to live Europe as protagonists, to say it in two words. As Renzi said here today, we must raise the bar of ambition, but if it is necessary - and I believe it is necessary - to raise the voice in Europe as well. For too long, in fact, we have seen a silent and renunciation Italy, which has undergone almost passively the choices generated in the European context, a dimension that clearly penalized us especially in terms of growth and development, and the results are before everyone's eyes. In such a framework, that is why it would have been important, indeed fundamental to build better and in time a credible policy line, perhaps enriched by the confrontation with the different political forces in order to raise everyone's expectations, focusing on those truly strategic and truly actionable issues. Unfortunately, I believe that this opportunity has been somewhat underestimated, although in the same way I believe that today can be an opportunity to begin to recover what has been lost, to plan the interventions and adequately prepare a ground for a semester that - it is useless to hide it - will pass quickly. In six months, decisive and determined action will have to be taken to review the austerity and rigour policies that have failed. The time has come to abandon that path which, for far too long, has been imposed on us by the European Union and which Germany, in particular, with a biased eye, has seen as the only possible solution to the economic and financial crisis that has hit the continent in recent years. In this direction, the issue of exceeding the parameters imposed by the EU is also included. This measure does not have immediate negative effects, all the more so when compared to the damage caused by the strict and absolute respect of those same parameters. Because of these constraints, our country has been forced to increase tax loads in a disproportionate way, falling into a depressing spiral that has favored unemployment rates, which - as confirmed by the latest surveys - are now at record levels. In Europe and Italy, work must be the first word. In addition to expansionist and growth policies, particular attention must be paid to the measures to be taken in the field of work, which will have to be able to create new and real jobs. In the near future we need new jobs, and not to insecure what is there, especially to give young people a perspective. We need a clear direction and a strategy for boosting employment. You need to create the conditions for the flowering of a green economy. And then again, we need to release investment expenditure if we want the system not to collapse on itself. We need to age Europe, which has become a heavy, bureaucratic and technocratic structure over time, in order to make it eco-sustainable, social and supportive. There is a need for a qualitative spending review in Europe before in Italy. On the subject of solidarity, immigration, with particular reference to the Mediterranean, is a necessary chapter to be addressed immediately. [[Call the president back.]] The President invites me to finish my speech, so I close by stressing that we, as always, will be available - I say this to the Government and to President Renzi - to make our contribution in terms of ideas and proposals, ready for constructive criticism, but useful, to make us overcome the impasse that has immobilized us for too long. We must have the pride of a country that is finally no longer relegated to the role of appearance, but which can legitimately aspire to play a major role in the European context. President Renzi will have our full support if he succeeds in reversing the poles, moving the axis of Europe from a governance of banks and finance to a sovereignty of peoples at last. This is a great opportunity for Italy, and we would certainly not like to reproach ourselves, but only tomorrow, for throwing it in the wind. I would ask that the full text of my speech be delivered so that it can be annexed to the report. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u56	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u57	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government representing the President-in-Office of the Council, the European semester that Italy is preparing to preside over is an extraordinary opportunity to talk about a fundamental topic for our country and for Europe: health, this misunderstood. This issue is often relegated to the margins of the political debate. Even the President-in-Office of the Council, who notoriously tweets and slides about everything, rarely talks about it. I get it. Health care is scary. This is because all the studies and analyses of the sector converge on one point: as it is, the health system of the Member States of the Union is not economically sustainable. Health in Europe today, net of the social security and welfare costs that contribute 40%, accounts for about 15% of all government expenditure. This amounts to 948 billion for the 28 countries of the European Union (over 7% of GDP). Yet, even that 20% more, in anticipation of 2060, would be sustainable if, for example, one were to try to remove national armies, for a single European system of defence of a country-Europe, or to rationalise the expenses and waste that are always present. In this sense, one of the first priorities must be to bring health to the top of Europe's agenda and commitments. And Italy must run more than others, resulting, among the 35 European countries examined by Health Consumer Powerhouse in 2013, only in the twentieth place for quality of the national health system, even behind Croatia. And do not console the rise of a position since 2012, because since 2009 of positions has lost as many as five. On the other hand, since 2005 there has been an exaggerated gap between the richest and financially stable countries and those most affected by the crisis. Of the four freedoms of movement (people, goods, capital, services), that of services is the last to have been treated. It is enough to think about health services which, in fact, remain of strong national competence. This is a contradiction since health plays a central role in the European social model and in European economic policy. With Directive 2011/24/EU on cross-border care, health systems will become competitive. This is an irreversible process of change, which cannot remain isolated from the directive alone, but which requires other Community measures, so that the idea of integration between health systems becomes concrete and as close as possible over time. Health, as well as universal law, is a value in itself, a brick necessary to build a better and more prosperous society. Our actions and reactions must not be palliative in the short term, but must aim for reliable, efficient and sustainable models. Health - let us bear this in mind - is not only a cost, but also a factor of growth. The health industry, in fact, is one of the sectors where Europe maintains a global competitive position. But the future is not yet written and you cannot rest on your laurels. Many of the emerging countries are now able to attract investment in research and production with increasing ease and Europe could soon lag behind in this area too. That is why the Italian Presidency should support actions to promote investment in research and development in health. Europe also faces enormous challenges: the ageing of the population, the increase in chronic diseases, the growth in demand for global health and social health. I would like to mention some of the most crucial issues before us and explain the actions to be taken to address them. As far as the elderly are concerned, we are in the midst of a radical change in the demographic structure. The impact of the ageing population on European public finances is evident. With the "Health for Growth" programme (2014-2014), the European Union envisages a specific plan for innovation on "Aging to remain active and healthy" by 2020, which aims not only to increase the average life of European citizens by two years, but also to guarantee them in good health. The Italian Presidency should promote as much as possible the practical development of the programme, with the aim of improving health and quality of life in Europe. I now come to the subject of disability. Around 80 million people living in the European Union have a more or less serious disability. Architectural barriers are at risk of marginalizing them. Less opportunities for education and employment result in a poverty rate that is 70% higher than the average for people with disabilities. Improving the accessibility of structures must be confirmed as one of the key points of the European strategy, including during the Italian Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). I also use the time that Senator Lezzi didn't use. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mandelli.]] With regard to health and safety at work, in the context of the economic crisis from which Europe is struggling to get out, invest in risk prevention and promote more favourable conditions in the workplace, it offers undoubted economic and social benefits, which the European Union cannot fail to take into account, as well as affecting the motivational aspects that so much affect company performance. On animal rights, in 1997 the European Union, in a protocol annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, gave a new status to animals by recognizing them as sentient beings. This principle was reaffirmed in the Lisbon Treaty on the basis of a proposal from the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2003. Yet, this important achievement is still not being properly applied. The Italian Presidency is now called upon to fully implement this principle by weighing this precept of the Treaty in the process of training and issuing European Union legislation. As far as innovation is concerned, new technologies are increasingly crucial in all sectors, including health. Technological innovation in health can - heard, heard - lead to a reduction in health expenditure of EUR 15 billion per year. Do you understand? They are savings without service cuts and no reduction in protection. Stop twitching. Europe must have an impact on the regulation of the health technology market. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you must finish, because you are taking advantage of the time available to Senator Lezzi also for the next legislature. [[Applause from the M5S and LN.Aut groups.]] I therefore ask that the remaining part of my speech be given in order to be appended to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of spending reviews, I will be very, very dry and sober. Three small, simple advices will be given to the President-in-Office of the Council, who is about to go to Europe - he says - with humble awareness and determination. Today Italy - said the President - is stronger, and the three councils are aimed at protecting this force that he has revealed, indicated, and that we hope serves to reverse the course of a European policy that has caused, in our country, incalculable damage to the economy and to the levels of social cohesion. First tip: President, turn on a spotlight on rating companies. In a few days we will begin the examination of the bill of European delegation. I have already seen that Article 4 expressly lays down rules for the transposition of guiding criteria relating to the regulation of rating agencies. I would like to say to President Renzi, however, but also to colleagues in this Chamber who are probably unaware, that in a few days' time, at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Trani, the trial will begin with some rating companies that have substantially violated, according to the accused system, some precise rules of the single text of finance, and in particular Article 185, which regulates the crime of continuous and multi-aggraved manipulation of the market. By what means were acts contrary to the law put in place? They were realized through the intentional supply to the financial markets, and therefore to the investors, of a tendentious and distorted (and therefore also distorted) information regarding the Italian credit reliability and the initiatives of recovery and economic recovery adopted by the Italian Government, in order to discourage the purchase of public debt securities and depreciate, thus, its value. The investigative magistrates add, to this very heavy charge, the aggravating elements provided for in Article 185 of the aforementioned Code, because of the considerable offensiveness, since crimes committed in damage to the Italian sovereign State, pursuant to both Article 61 and Article 7 of the Criminal Code, for having caused to the Italian Republic a patrimonial damage of very great gravity. I think this is a good advice. In fact, listening to Renzi's words, I felt the echo of what was said in this House at the same time as those crimes were committed and when the Berlusconi Government carried out the same recovery positions as a policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group when Mr Renzi, President of the Council, joined the Chamber]] economics inspired by the principles of credibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The fact is that Italy, evidently, at the time (in the period between September and December 2011) did not enjoy that level of strength. Dear President of the Renzi Council, turn on a spotlight on rating agencies to prevent the damage resulting from the manipulation of markets, which had a heavy impact on the economy of our country, even if the holding of that government, end up having to register in this legislature and at this time so delicate. Second advice: I greatly appreciated the need, which highlighted as indispensable, to combine the principles of rigour with those of growth. Let us make sure that this is not just a statement of principle. Let us make sure that we bring home a result, and the first result to be brought home is that of the Stability Pact. We are tired, Mr President, of a Europe that, one day, tells us that we have to stay within budgetary constraints and, the next day, accuses us of not making adequate use of the European Structural Funds: hence the need to find ways of netting national co-financing in relation to the Stability Pact. Thirdly, Mr President, make Italy strong. Make her even stronger. Bring the Maròs back to our country: it is also a fact of dignity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u60	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have pointed out very strongly - and I think rightly so - in your report how new, strong political responses are needed in Europe and Italy to meet the great challenges to be faced. Nationalism and populism - as we know - have returned dramatically to threaten Europe's future. In this respect, the European vote of 25 May was a real shock, but certainly not a surprise. Changes are needed in Italy and Europe to return to growth, to produce wealth and to create jobs. In Europe, apart from the recent renewed financial stability (and it is a positive fact), the situation of most euro area economies - as we know - continues to be very worrying (the only exception is Germany). The recovery in progress is fragile and, if nothing changes, there is a prospect of a prolonged stagnation, combined with a creeping deflation that could last for the whole decade. It is clear, therefore, in a few words that discontinuity is needed. In order to achieve this, of course, national reforms are needed in individual countries starting from Italy, but - as you rightly pointed out, Mr President - there is a need at European level for policies that have never been done so far: policies that look at the euro area system as complex, and not just at individual countries; policies that are able to govern the strong interdependence between the countries of the eurozone. They are system policies to support European domestic demand through greater flexibility, which is not a concession to individual countries, but must be read in terms of time and method of implementing the rules of the Stability Pact and the fiscal compact that allow this system action. Above all, investment in the medium and long term, both public and private, at European level, is needed in a wide range of areas such as research, digitisation, sustainable mobility and education, which can be transformed, if properly exploited, into new engines of European growth. Of course, in this case, it is crucial how much will be invested and with what times. In other words, the first reactions to the new rules and flexibility have been positive, although deliberately ambiguous. It must be clear that the game is very difficult and has just begun, also because it is all situations that, in order to achieve, in particular in the field of investment, need new and important resources to invest in the medium and long term. But it is not true that this is the problem, because there are resources that can be mobilised at European level, by amending financial regulations that today reward the short-sightedness of financial speculation. There are resources in the Community budget. There are resources in the new multiannual financial framework. There are resources at European Investment Bank level. It can be said in some way that, as at the moment, the financial conditions have been so favourable and are so much in terms of the cost of money and willingness to make investments. There is therefore a need, above all, for a political will. From this point of view, once we have started a profound renewal of the policies adopted as a way out of the crisis, I believe that it will be possible to relaunch the proposal for a further deepening of the institutional structure of the European Union. First, we must return to offering citizens a Europe of opportunities with new policies and then, only then, we can ask for a deepening of the process of European integration. Now, on both fronts there were some first interesting openings. It is not necessary, of course, to exaggerate its meaning, as some have done, nor, let alone, to diminish it or to reset it, as others have done. We must, in fact, be aware that Italy, our country, also because of the extent of the electoral victory achieved by the PD, which makes it the first party of socialists and democrats at European level, can play a very important role. It is important, of course, that this role is accompanied by the changes and structural reforms to which you and many others have referred: not announcements, of course, but concrete results. This is possible, albeit in some difficult way, by addressing those structural nodes that have long been waiting for solutions. To return to growth, therefore, makes it necessary for Italy a path of reforms to associate a change in Europe able to ensure an expanding context, the only one able to make possible and effective the tasks at home of the individual countries. We must be quick, however, Mr President, because this favourable phase of abundant liquidity is destined to close in the space of twelve, at most eighteen months, to close. Then it's gonna be harder. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u62	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that, in addition to those already communicated, motions for resolutions No 4 have been tabled by Senator Malan, No 5, Senator Buccarella and other senators, and No 6, by Senator Paolo Romani and other senators. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u63	Mr President, the Government does not intend to reply. Therefore, I would like to express my views directly on the resolutions that have been tabled. The opinion is in favour of majority resolution No 1 by Senator Zanda and other senators, while it opposes the other resolutions tabled. Although they contain elements that are acceptable and some indications that go in the same direction indicated by the Government through the communications of the President of the Council, they are accompanied by other commitments and elements that the Government believes it cannot accept, which in some cases go beyond the prerogatives linked to the Presidency of the European Semester. The opinion is therefore against the other resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u67	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, I merely announce that I am in favour of a majority resolution approving the President-in-Office's communications. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups and Senator Bernini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u68	Thank you for your summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u71	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Renzi, you are about to assume a very heavy role and tasks in a tired, confused and frightened European Union that seems to have lost its ideal origin. Italy is taking on a leading role. To you, Mr Renzi, the full mandate goes to promote a leap in quality and planning during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union: a project that, founded and supported by the trust of consensus, can reactivate new processes. The responsibility that you assume is also to help rewrite social reformism, putting at the centre the attention to the weakest, solidarity between peoples, the strengthening of social cohesion, the integration of young people into the world of work, the strengthening of the industrial system. Italy, with the acquisition of renewed credibility, can be a real guide with the Presidency of the European Semester. Mr President, there is a very much felt expectation that we will build a genuinely welcoming European Union of the new generations, which require significant help, in order to avoid the risk of long-term unemployment and permanent social exclusions. There is a very strong expectation that monetary policies will counteract deflation and provide credit to households and small businesses. As you rightly mentioned in your speech to the House this morning and this afternoon in the Senate, there is no need for other treaties, no need for other documents or measures, but those robust economic and social policies that can open up to hope, and not only. Concreteness and high and broad vision, Mr Renzi, can help ferry from mistrust and discouragement to credit and courage. Together, while we are aware of the different opinions - which we believe can, however, strongly, work together - we can achieve those objectives that we have clearly defined. Italy has a unique and unrepeatable mission, in at least chronologically short and politically youthful times. The decisive, convinced and shared renewal that characterizes this political season is the real basis of credibility on the European scene. We do not need to be kindly welcomed in Europe: we are Europe. For these reasons, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as the Per l'Italia Group, we will vote in favour of Resolution No 1, as well as expressing our position in favour of your Presidency and the mission that awaits you. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u73	You have the right to do so. I invite you to draw inspiration from Mr Maran's time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u74	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the urgency is heavy, and I am referring not only to the conclusion of the national team's game, but also to the path that we all see as indispensable for our country. We therefore give a full mandate to the President of the Council to make Italy's voice heard: a renewed voice that takes into account not only the needs of our country, but also those of Europe. It is precisely for these reasons that we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u77	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, we have listened to the report by the President-in-Office of the Council, which I believe to have made a significant statement that self-esteem would have increased. I thought that Europe's esteem for Italy and the Italian Government had increased, but it is well known that these days, too, it is not bad. On the other hand, we have not understood the criteria that Italy intends to discuss again within the European Union, even if it borrows what Silvio Berlusconi, a few years ago, repeated several times between the obstacles and the general scepticism: that is, we have to discuss the Maastricht Treaty again and that it is necessary for the European Central Bank to start beating currency. Our crisis, in fact, is essentially due to the lack of liquidity, in addition to the factors of the deficit, which I do not think are sufficiently clear to the President of the Council, who I believe will go to history for half-reforms, inaugurating the political genia of the reformist means. We are perplexed by what the President-in-Office of the Council said, and therefore, without prejudice to the freedom of choice of certain members of a heterogeneous group such as the LAG, I am announcing the vote against for most members of the Group. In my view, more than having self-esteem, we must impose ourselves in the European context in order to re-examine the issue of currency, that of the debt-to-GDP ratio and, if possible, the fiscal compact and the budgetary balance that has been incorporated into the Constitution. This is for a very simple reason, namely that we have a state budget of four items: out of 650 billion expenditure, we have 300 billion pensions, 160 billion salaries, 110 billion health care and 80 billion interest on public debt. Faced with this scheme, which is already bankrupt in itself (think of what would happen in any company where the load of salaries and pensions represents 75% of the exits) it is necessary to affect with a profound revision of the state in an efficient and liberal sense (and for this I trust that Benedetto Della Vedova returns to its origins of radical-liberal). So, we need to disassemble this weak, redundant and inefficient state. If you really want to, instead of closing the Senate or turning it into an after-work for fourth-series regional advisors, make sure to close most of the 11,450 participants from the state and local authorities, which produce 47 billion euros of debt, and send home the trumpets and parasites that are between 30,000 and 40,000 on the boards of directors of these companies. [[Applause from the LAG Group, M5S and Senator Bignami]] Do not try to restore public debt to the detriment of the democracy and the right that Italians have to elect their parliamentarians. [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] If only you will disassemble these carriages, if only you will send home this plethora of clientes, you will have done much more than all the chatter and good intentions of which today "Madame Verdurin" came here to talk to us. We don't need a new hat; we need new rules, a serious policy that cleans up the state, the claim of a state that believes that it is the first entrepreneur in this nation and that whatever it touches, it does it inefficiently and producing debt. In the last of the measures proposed by the Government there was a ceiling of 250,000 euros for the managers of the big companies, and this goes also in the furrow of the demagogy of which the President of the Council defiates himself. Is it possible for you to put the problem of limiting - rightly - the salary to the grand committees of state and then to have 160 billion expenditures for the public service, where we continue to pay our employees for the single day of presence? So, gentlemen, what do you want to say in Europe? Either you reform this state, which is a well of St. Patrick, or you put your hat in your hand, like your predecessors, and ask Mrs. Merkel for some common sense and some good will. [[Applause from the LAG groups]] and FI-PdL XVII).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u80	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council is absent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Malan.]] I do not see the President of the Council. Perhaps you can see that, Mr President, because you could also be under the government stand doing other things. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u81	Divine Senator, I invite you not to let yourself go to these statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u82	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have only noticed the President-in-Office of the Council in the interval between the first and second half of the game. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Malan.]] There is a Senate that is doing its part and for the first time, at least in memory of those who have trod these benches, in a sitting on the agenda of the President of the Council's communications and annexed resolutions, the President of the Council not only does not listen, because he is not even present, but does not even reply to those poor Christians who decided that it was worth committing themselves to express their opinion on a subject that is not really second-level. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Malan.]] We have also read the report by the President-in-Office of the Council, which makes a strange statement: millions of people voted PD to change Europe. The President-in-Office of the Council has not understood anything. Because those millions of people who wanted to change Europe voted for the League, voted for the Pens, voted for the Strache FPÖ, voted for the Wilders PVV. Those people wanted to change Europe. That 40.8% figure, which some colleagues reported in their speech and which would give PD this responsibility, is not a stable figure, but is not even liquid. It's gaseous. You must say thanks to Grillo, who intimidated the Italians to such an extent with his sentences about being beyond Hitler, about the vivisections, about the processes in the square, that he stiffened a large part of the population, that he saw in the PD of Renzi the antagonist that could curb this phenomenon, and that he had thus triggered the gaseous vows. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Malan.]] The absent President of the Council says that the whole of Europe must take responsibility for immigration. But has the President-in-Office read any small figures? In the first five months of the year there were 55,000 landings. We can't talk about immigration. This is an invasion! The numbers are invading. And we know that linked to the immigration problem there are all the other major issues of our country, such as unemployment, on which you have given the data, which are perfect. But this unemployment should impose immigration policies on us to stop even the regulars, and not just the irregulars! What does a person who comes to Italy and doesn't find a job do? He doesn't need culture, but he needs to fill his belly, lunch, dinner and breakfast. And if he can't do it with the money that comes from some work, then he gets it any other way. And we see how the data on crime and the prison population are composed. The absent President of the Council is always talking about flexibility and extending the deadlines. We smile like a wedding invitation, because these were the criticisms that the League addressed to the Monti Government, which had the same majority as the center left, who immediately went to Europe to do his task and paid off his debts. But what firm that goes through a period of difficulty goes to the bank to pay off its debts? Rather, he goes to the bank to ask for a renovation and a delay. We did the opposite, and we saw the damage. The League thanks that Renzi perhaps understood it, after so many statements that we have made. Merkel says they can grant flexibility, but as long as Italy does the reforms. But we have seen where they have taken us, at least the reforms we have made so far: they have only led to depression. And at this point Germany goes to the wedding and, indeed, is proving to know Latin better than Italians. Mors tua, vita mea: forward with the reforms, Italians. We work and you starve. If there were the President of the Council, I would ask him to explain why, when he talks about reforms, he says that we will reform from 1 September 2014 to 28 May 2017. We needed him to say that we start in the morning and finish the afternoon, indicating also the time. What's the point of this remark? Perhaps it serves as a manifestation of strength or as a delirium of omnipotence: it will also tell us in which times we Members, who will count less and less, will have to approve its reforms. Let's go inside: are they reforms or are they camouflaged political controls? Someone did some application evidence, Senate and Parliament. With the current data, a red monocolor PD would come out. In the Senate, between councilors and mayors, the PD would have 54 members out of 100; with Italicum the Chamber would have 340 MPs of the PD out of 630. But are these the reforms that serve the country or are they an action of pure political power disguised? The reform of the Senate was already done in 2005: it was Renzi, the PD and the center-left who collected the signatures to invalidate it, because the left must immediately delete everything that the right does. Curious, if it weren't dramatic. President Renzi's been wandering around the world lately. Haven't you ever wondered where our pensioners are going? Our pensioners are emigrated to Morocco, Tunisia or Hungary, but not for tourism, but for survival: with 500 or 1,000 euros in Italy they are hungry, while in those countries they live dignifiedly. Here remains those who are out of work (young without guilt) and those from those countries continue to arrive. But if we go on like this, we have to ask President Renzi a question: to whom will we deliver our country? President Renzi likes to play the Politics Monopoly: one day he sells ten blue cars and another day he says he wants to sell an aircraft carrier (you need to see who buys it). You should ask him to take a look in the basements, because maybe there is also some extra bikes to put on the market. The problem is really one, and it is very serious: here production costs too much and we no longer succeed. The consequences are that investment does not come from abroad and that our companies are forced to relocate where the labor costs less; a wrong currency, too strong, makes it more convenient to relocate abroad than to produce here. Here we do not work, here we do not produce, here we do not create wealth; we will divide misery more and more. To President Renzi, who is a skilled rider with tables on the waves, let us continue to say that we are careful, because the waves eventually break on the rocks. You no longer play the Parliamentary Monopoly, but give answers to the Italians, who wonder: which side is my government on? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u85	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will address you, even if you are not here. We consider today's debate to be very important: an opportunity - as you yourself defined this morning - to help make our continent become what has not so far been a joint project capable of finally assuming a political identity and momentum and able to respond to those increasingly widespread feelings of xenophobia and racism that go through much of the Union and are at the origin of the electoral success of the nationalist and anti-European rights. In our view, many have been the reasons for the difficulties of all these years: wrong economic recipes, weak institutions (even if they are considered to be an obstacle to the free market), the idea that the common currency (from which, moreover, we cannot go back) was enough to drive the whole process of unification. Today we are facing a crossroads: either we change radically or we die. And, in order not to kill the dream of the United States of Europe, we must change, if not everything, almost everything, starting from the need to give the Union that political profile that allows it to intervene first in the war scenarios of our time, starting from the crisis of Ukraine to the Middle East, where in these hours we consume yet another bloodbath, from Iraq crossed by Islamic jihad to Palestine, where a criminal kidnapping of Israeli young people responds with an indiscriminate reprisal, which does not stop even in front of women and children. Europe's silence on this is deafening and says a lot about what has not worked. We believe that our country can play an important role today and that you yourself, despite the electoral outcome that you have achieved and even within your party - the European Socialist Party - have the extraordinary opportunity to change the European agenda born of a perverse relationship: from that austerity-populism couple and those constraints of the Stability Pact that must not simply become more flexible, as I have heard, but that needs a fundamental change. Today we want to reiterate to you that we have not failed the reasons why we have been and will still be opposed by your Government. That is also why we have tabled our own resolution and we will not vote for the majority, because we find significant differences in not a few fundamental points and because we do not share the idea and inspiration of its parliamentary alliances. Even though we are ready from the opposition to encourage and support any possible change in the European agenda, starting with what is the first need for us: to deeply question the fiscal compact which should be replaced by a social compact binding on all Member States, which has as its priority employment and redistribution of incomes and which initiates a transformation of the development model, starting with the relaunching of policies for training, innovation and education. As I said, Italy, as the founding country of the Union, can really play a decisive role during the six-month Presidency, first of all starting from the debate on future policy guidelines, especially in stimulating measures that can react to the crisis that still holds in check several European countries, to the point of bringing us to the threshold of deflation. Mr President, we must start with the need to loosen the meshes of that austerity which certainly did not benefit either the finances or the economies of the European countries. It is a question of radically questioning some ideas that have been passed on in recent years, not as thesis, but as absolute truths, as ideological dogmas unable to deal with the materiality of an impoverished, aged and frightened Continent that would need much more care and not, instead, the dogmatism of those who are certifying the end. We need urgent and structural responses to tackle first and foremost unemployment that puts social cohesion at risk and even democratic stability, as demonstrated by the disaffection to the vote that marked the last elections. The necessary measures require a rethink of austerity policies as a whole. On the other hand, coordinated economic policies between the EU countries must be put in place to boost domestic demand in the euro area and to enable economies to be reorganized in the countries most affected by the crisis. As you know, Mr President, a bill of European citizens' initiative on minimum income has been deposited, for which Parliament has already voted in favour in the last parliamentary term. Such a measure, adopted and co-financed by all countries, would be - this yes - a more effective instrument than the recipes adopted so far for the protection of the younger generations, just as it would serve an investment plan for a new European g reen deal that aims to convert the national economies in order to allow a repositioning on the global markets without having to compete downwards on the cost of labor with the economies of the Eastern countries, according to the fallacious theory of expansive insecurity. We must finally overcome the logic that development needs can be sacrificed to a non-reproducible asset such as the ecosystem, including by imagining a new energy policy and the fight against climate change, firstly by strengthening the commitments already made by the Union and by committing the Member States to achieving significant results with regard to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, or - again - by ensuring maximum transparency to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty, for example by promoting traceability of agri-food products free from GMOs. Here, President, doing these things really means changing direction; it means trying to hit the granite certainties of the solans of austerity, putting at the centre the need for greater social equity precisely in the time marked by the greatest inequalities known by the contemporary world. Let us take the fight against financial speculation, which is at the origin of the crisis, taxing transactions to return the resources needed to protect income. In order to do this, the agenda that marked the years of the crisis must be turned upside down and there must be also cultural forces, capable of giving the Union not only a social perspective, but also that soul that is not there today. Let us start again from school, from culture, from university, from education, from the need to prevent the resuming of the sad practice of forced emigration within the Union: start again from this. If our country succeeds in imposing a real change, if it will fight to create a Union without borders and without barriers, unarmed, in which the free movement of people is guaranteed, including those refugees who flee from wars; if it will work so that these people can move freely and worthily, and above all can do so if they want, and not because they are forced, then we at SEL will do the same battle. If you and your government don't even try, you can rest assured, President, that Left Ecology and Freedom will be somewhere else. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u88	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, since the President-in-Office of the Council has happily abandoned us for the game, and we have a sense of duty and we are here, I would ask you kindly, given the importance of our speeches, to suspend work until the end of the game so that President Renzi can listen to the speeches of his colleagues and, at the same time, anyone who wants to go to see the game. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u89	Request denied. I would never have hoped that someone would propose that the work be suspended, beyond who is present or not in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u92	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, the Group of the Senators and Senators of the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, and will do so above all with reference to a statement which we might consider to be central to them: that which states that Europe is the only possible dimension in order to have and cultivate great ambitions for peace and development. Today's conditions in Europe have been pointed out by the President-in-Office of the Council: conditions which we could define as demographic, productive and employment difficulties. An old Europe, which, however, still has extraordinary energies in it so that a period of growth can be rebuilt in it. The President of the Council pointed out that appointments should be a consequence of things. The first thing that must be taken as a premise for those appointments, for the choice of those who will have to carry out the functions responsible for the leadership of the Union, in our opinion, is a shared geopolitical vision. I am not just referring to foreign policy, but to something more, namely an idea of Europe which, on the one hand, is firmly anchored to its western and Atlantic roots (but which is projected as far as possible towards the entire continent with objectives of inclusion of that great country which is Russia and which, as I have already said here, we cannot deliver to unnatural alliances for its own history), on the other hand, promoting that possible projection towards the Mediterranean, also taking up the dream of an enlargement of the Union towards countries like Israel, Turkey and, as I mentioned before, Russia itself. The great tensions we experienced in the East and in the South do not find a solution in the isolation of these large areas, but on the contrary in the possibility of including them within a shared project. If there is this shared geopolitical vision, then it can result in consequences for the defence policy, for the energy policy, for the construction of further free trade areas, for a truly common management of migratory flows, which are not only fed today by wealth gaps, but even more by the great ethnic and racial tensions that have occurred in many of the areas mentioned above. And again, we will finally be able to produce those large transnational infrastructures supported by project bonds that should cover in a particular way the Mediterranean area: the Mediterranean area of the Union that is functional to the extent that that geopolitical vision is expressed, because if that geopolitical vision is missing, if a narrower vision prevails, perhaps as has been said repeatedly, torn apart around the Baltic, inexorably the area to which we belong and in which we insist would be condemned even more to an inexorable decline. Within this framework, and only within this framework, will a policy of growth in stability be possible, fueled by large joint investments in energy networks, telecommunications and transport, supported by new rules for the use of common resources. I am thinking, for example, of the absurdity of the co-financing that is necessary with regard to European funds and which is still supported by internal structural reforms: reforms that we need to achieve not only because they can be the road to flexible management of the path of compliance with budgetary parameters, but because they serve us to free up the vitality of our economy and our society. Internal structural reforms mean essentially fewer rules and less taxes to grow, and we have two instruments that the President of the Council has remembered: on the one hand the delegations already delivered to the Government for the redesign of our tax levy system according to the loyal collaboration, finally, between taxpayer and financial administration; on the other hand the delegations that we must deliver to the Government in a short time as far as work is concerned, for a labour market that is more inclusive, the more able to combine the flexibility necessary for companies to compete with the security for workers. The delegations proposed by the Government contain this conjugation, and within this conjugation I believe that the Government must have the courage of important decisions such as those for which Marco Biagi died twelve years ago, and that twelve years later are even more necessary. They also concern the reregulation of the contract for an indefinite period, as he advised us. In short, we need a reform of the labour market which has the same effectiveness for Italy as the one that had the Hartz reform in Germany, the reform that the President of the Council called for today precisely because it marked the turning point of a nation that at that time asked to derogate from the 3% constraint. The consequence of all this can be the sharing of appointments that will be the result, I imagine, of a coalition between the people and socialists also in Europe, as already in Germany and Italy. The founding fathers belonged to these two great political families, and their heirs today have a duty to reproduce their ambition in a hairpin of history no less epochal than that experienced by them after the world war. Good work and good navigation to the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u95	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the bored members of the Government, who are forced into the Chamber, while the President-in-Office, instead of dedicating himself to the European game (as he called it in his speech), went to the match in Brazil. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] He will have gone to shout "Forza Italia", so at least he will have made a sincere and dense resolution of contents, because everything else is the cosmic vacuum. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Di Biagio.]] We witnessed the pronunciation of nothing waiting to go to enjoy the game. So applause, applause, applause to President Renzi; tell him that we are here to praise him. It seems from your media that your government must be incensed in relation to the economic and social situation: at least that is what Germany and the polls tell us. But now we wonder what the price was. In the meantime, like other times, we stress that Germany is not the leader or mistress of Europe, but it is probably the country that benefits and benefits most from this European Union. So we wonder why our attitude is constantly directed to prostration with respect to every minimal German nod, because at the end of this we are talking. This is absolutely castrating; it is in function of a long-term planning; it is in function of a greater protection of our country than its own excellences; it is in function of an inability of the Government or a submission to the will of others for an evident internal inefficiency. Matteo Renzi's social policies have so far manifested themselves through a sort of good expenditure of 80 euros which, except for a few more votes, has not brought economic benefits, but instead has placed the aforementioned President in the exact Berlusconian dimension of the pact with the Italians. So, again, "Forza Italia": tell him to make this resolution, because it is the only credible one. These things are enough for Merkel, who will be happy, but they are non-existent for Italians. We in the 5 Star Movement are only asking questions, motions, solicitations and proposals. We propose many things, but Matteo Renzi listens only to himself and to Merkel. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]] What kind of promissory note are we paying for this pseudo-flexibilities that are still to be verified? These are always the same pre-European Council words, which, on time, closes with nothing. At the last meeting of the Council we went with the idea of putting an exclamation point on the problems of Lampedusa. What about today? We're having a photocopier meeting today. The conditions have deteriorated and Italy, which should first be sensitive to the problem - and then you say that we are the xenophobics - still does not have organic legislation. The same applies to the protection of Made in Italy. There are local industrial groups that spread their productions everywhere and then proclaim themselves made in Italy where, perhaps, only the final transformation takes place in our country. What should the government do that doesn't do? Europe is blocking a law protecting Made in Italy, but it does not seem to me that the government is making a wall against a wall. Woe, trouble to make Germany feel again, which is actually the one that earns most from the fake made in Italy. That of the European Council is an opportunity, a dual opportunity, to dictate a line, to bring the strong positions of the Italian citizens and not of the power groups, which serve only to keep the Government in the saddle through the international salami. A European semester is needed to implement policies for recovery, to rise from this shameful genuflection of the Government in the face of the German power. We in this resolution have done so much, we have put forward proposals and actions to be taken in all areas so that there will be a real change of course, a real reappropriation of what belongs to citizens for citizens. But the government did not even deign to read it: it gave negative opinion and that's it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]] It cannot be that we consider it normal to dig a mountain for a useless TAV; there can be no normality in the continuous connivances between politics and corruption; there can be no normality in seeing the dead at sea without doing anything at all. There can be no normality in the tax levy in favour of pseudo-financial funds save states such as the ESM and now, the new frontier, the ERF, which require further cuts to health, education and culture. But you know, a healthy, educated people is not what this government wants. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It cannot be normal to shift essential services to the private, friends of friends, with the loss of public control. The sale of territories and environmental martyrdom cannot be normal. The constant and perpetual rise in the level of unemployment cannot be normal. The absence of programming in each sector cannot be normal. It cannot be normal for the President-in-Office of the Council to be incensed by the newspapers, but for the public administration to spend billions of euros of money because it is incapable of managing and controlling. It cannot be normal yet that there is a Southern Italy and a Northern Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The document of the 5 Star Movement connects all sectors - I invite you to read it also after to make you a culture - and indicates a path to be implemented in the European Council and to be carried out during the Italian Presidency. It is a series of points addressed to the citizens, without which neither you nor we would be here today. Just leave the citizens hanging on to a hope of something that will never come. Whoever lives hoping, dies desperate and despair has become a daily element of Italian social life, that you don't even know what it is because you live in another world. The lack of transparency and accountability are no longer allowed. Our governments have stopped fighting and have subjugated. We are in the dark of everything: we are told nothing about free trade agreements, about TTIP. We are not involved in the ERF mechanisms or other financial and tax devilry. On 13 March 2014, the European Parliament adopted two resolutions in which it effectively rejected the economic policies pursued by the troika, highlighting how instead of facing the employment and industrial crisis, they created only new pockets of poverty, massacred small and medium-sized enterprises and gave life to what has been called a social butcher's shop.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u96	Conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u97	FACTORS (M5S). I'd have ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't have them: you finish or deliver the written text. FACTORS (M5S). This government stands as a champion of democracy, then proves it by signing or, at least, reading the proposal of the 5 Star Movement. Since we have read and studied the proposals, we announce that we are voting against the motion for a resolution signed by the majority of the leaders for the obvious absence of intelligible content, the vote in favour of motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 3, first by Senators Bitonci and De Petris, respectively, against Senator Malan's motion for a resolution No 4, focusing on liberalisation and finally against the motion for a resolution No 6, first by Senator Romani, because we do not agree with the request for the suspension of Mare nostrum operations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u98	Senator Fattori, you made some references to football and didn't bring it very well. I wouldn't take her to a game.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u101	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am going to give the text of my statement, because I fear that I will not be able to remain within the, understandably strict, ten-minute deadlines, but I would like to make a premise and to stress one thing to you, President, and to the members of the Government present (which I thank for listening to the whole debate), apart from any polemic intent. It is not customary for me to consider only controversial matters, but I find it astonishing, from an institutional point of view, that the Government has given a negative opinion to the motions for resolutions of all the parliamentary groups except one without expressing one - and I say one - explanatory statement. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC]] Mr President, I consider this to be an embarrassment and institutional mortification towards political parties and parliamentary groups which, while expressing their greatest opposition, can and must be cooperative. I hope the government is still listening. I am not going to argue about the overwhelming urgency that the President-in-Office of the Council has kept elsewhere. The point I wanted to make at the beginning of my speech is the lack of institutional respect for those who like us - I can speak for my parliamentary group [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] - expressed positions which should not be limited to the management of the government's relationship with Europe during the Presidency of the European Council, which will last six months. This is at least what we all believe, since President Renzi wanted to talk not about a commitment of 100, but of 1,000 days adding (at this point I wonder whether conspicuously or inconspicuously) a zero. So, as I said, if we do not wish to limit this to a six-month commitment, our requests must also be duly considered and, if rejected, duly justified. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-ILC Groups.]] Having said that, members of the Government, President of the Council who I am presenting, because I am sure that wherever he is listening to me, we will not behave like those oppositions that in the past (Democratic Party in the lead, I am sorry to say), while President Berlusconi led a solitary and avant-garde battle against the totem of austerity, for reasons of low domestic political cuisine, for our opponents. They were rooting for the axis between Merkel and Sarkozy, pretending, believing, that that was the real Europe. But that was not Europe. They fought against Italy and, at the end of the day, against an expansive and positive vision of the European Union. Vision and need that are not yet those of the recent, timid openings of Angela Merkel (of course not yet sufficient, except to postdate the balance of the budget and with the postdating of the balance of the budget, colleagues, it is not growing, it is done only postdating) or of the report of Van Rompuy, who, with reverent amazement, now, for the first time, discovers the growth in the folds of the Stability Pact. Let me say, Mr President-in-Office, that you are certainly listening to me, that your presentation today has a few too many limits. It is made of the same substance as dreams: it lacks concreteness. On the concept of Europe, on its governance, on its economic policy lines, has been fought in recent months, indeed in recent years, a cultural battle also destined to affect the life, indeed the flesh, of Italian and European citizens. In the end, the conviction prevailed that we are all linked to a common destiny, that together we must work for a future of growth and unity. In Italy, not the rhetoric of anti-Europeanism prevailed, but the most realistic critical Europeanism, which has been the figure of our Government as the time of our opposition. Once it was only Forza Italia who asked for a flexible, less obtuse interpretation of European constraints; to denounce the error of focusing everything on rigour and austerity ignoring the imperative of growth, iconizing the textual data of the Treaties; to criticize the retreat of the European bureaucracy on itself (a stronghold that has produced an increasing distance of the institutions from the citizens); to urge the possibility, under certain conditions, to overtake the ceiling of 3% that still you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, insist on considering a taboo. Berlusconi, and we with him, was surrounded then by the silence and supposition of those who looked at us as saboteurs of the common house [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] and against the Italian Government there was a conspiracy that had a background in Italy, but directors abroad. I say nothing more than to urge - as has already been done in the House - the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the matter. Today, at last, it seems that Chancellor Merkel also prepares to give a more flexible interpretation of the rules, for example by assuming that European funds are separated from the 3% limit. On the basis of our experience, I would invite the President of the Renzi Council to avoid triumphalistic tones, because these are concessions to be verified with time, time and facts. These concessions are in fact far from the changes that would be necessary to restart the flooded machine of the economy, not so much and not only in Italy, but above all in Europe. Today our idea of Europe has proved to be the winning one. It is clear to everyone that Rome, Berlin, Paris, London, Warsaw are engines of a subject that only if it proves strong, compact, flexible will it be able to compete on par with America, Russia, Asia. None of us can go anywhere alone. We all know the limits of the construction of the euro, as well as the foolishness in the blind application of constraints. It is clear today that only if we can really give the Union a breakthrough, a clear push towards employment, growth and competitiveness will we be able to prevent the decline, but above all the loss of Europe's authority at global level, as in the scenarios closest to us (Libya and Ukraine). So over the next six months, President Renzi, it will be Italy and the voice of Europe and Europe. It will be crucial months, perhaps decisive, synchronized on the timing of a dual and necessary change: on the one hand, the rotation at the summits of the Union (I have to say a truly historic appointment that has not been realized for a long time), on the other hand, the time to take decisions that can no longer be postponed on the economy, work and immigration. We all know what needs to be done. At this point what needs to be done must be done. We must widen the internal market, not resign ourselves to the invasion of desperate people who land every day on the Italian coasts (Italian coasts but which are European), sent to the brink by the traffickers of human beings. Archiving the operation Mare nostrum, which has become something very different from a simple sighting and rescue device at sea, for the proper rescue of human lives, is not appropriate: indispensable. We are very proud of the work carried out by our military and our Navy in particular, but Mare nostrum risks transmitting a message of excessive hope to the eyes of those who want to approach our country looking for hope and luck, stimulating in fact the journeys of death: a gift for organized crime, and I say nothing else. President Renzi recalled that we must strengthen the European integration of Frontex and talked about Frontex plus. We have talked so much about Frontex and so little has been done in Europe to really implement Frontex, which was nothing more than a coastal and coastal country that has not at all addressed the real problem of economic immigration and for humanitarian reasons. The problem then is to bring home results. We said: do what needs to be done. Promise is not difficult (see also President Renzi in his first hundred days of government): it is difficult to keep everything that is promised. President Renzi produced a chronoprogram with many promises: electoral law and institutional reforms in February (we had understood 2014, not in 2015); the reform of the job (the real one, the one that serves the country, not the shrivelled Poletti formula); the reform of the public administration in April (announced, then disappeared from radar); in May the reform of the tax (not received, and May is over); in June the justice (but in the meantime does not favor this Government the civil responsibility of the magistrates, we seem to understand). It is only because of the credibility of the reform commitment that Italy can really impose an agenda on its European partners, but where is this credibility so far? Renzi had promised to pay by July 68 billion outstanding debts to the supplying companies. At the same time, new debts have been added due to the persistent delay in payments: six months on average, which have rightly been stigmatized by a Europe that - alas - had to open an infringement procedure. No one can subscribe to the astonishing surprise of Padoan's Minister for Economic Affairs to Commissioner Tajani's announcement of the start of the procedure. There are many points to be addressed, and I refer to my statement that I hope the Government will read, together with our motion for a resolution that has so quickly and so unmistakably rejected, not on the substance, of course, but as a way. The only thing I would like to remind you is that Forza Italia will push Renzi to get the most out of Brussels and Berlin, and if there is, it will be happy with him. We believe very much in productive investment that is useful for growth. We believe in public investment co-financed by the European Union. We believe in the possibility of obtaining more time, in exchange for credible reforms, for the reduction of public debt that travels over 130% of GDP. And with this I have really concluded, President: I want to remind you that we were the first to support the choice of labour market flexibility and the new interpretation of Community rules, but that is precisely why we will be inflexible in recalling the commitment that Renzi has made with all of us and its partners to close the era of a unnecessarily rigid, hostile and distant Europe. But it is certainly not on the basis of your report today, that I would dare to define - not to say worse - minimal, in some cases even hesitant, that this Government will be able to present itself in Europe with the right business card to convince Merkel to change towards the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u102	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the full text of its explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u105	TONINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the government, fellow senators, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Zanda, signed and shared with the other majority groups. He will do so all the more convincingly after listening to the President-in-Office of the Council's parliamentary speeches that have dotted the day today, which began in the House this morning and continued in the afternoon in the Senate. As always there is controversy, when a Minister or a representative of the Government, sometimes even the President of the Council, has to divide between different duties (because that's what I call being in tune with our country at a time like this). [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] When it is to divide between different tasks, our Constitution assists us. The Constitution, in fact, states that the Government is a collegiate body, and when the Government is present in Parliament, the Government is present in Parliament. [[Comments of Senator Malan]] The Government is a collegiate body in our Constitution. [[Senator Marton's comments. Recalls of the President]] The intellectual honesty of my colleagues, whom I know, beginning with that of Senator Bernini who spoke last, I know that he recognizes with us of the Democratic Party that the Italian semester could not appear under better prospects. This is a fact and, I would like to say, even beyond our best hopes. We are going to experience a historic passage of great importance, that of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, under the best possible conditions, due to the fact that there is a government that has worked and that, together with its majority, has regained political stability, which is the essential condition for credibility in Europe. This political stability, together with its planning and strong drive for change, has convinced both our European partners and our voters, our country. See that these two sides of the same coin are important and must be considered in their harmony. Before, a colleague spoke of self-esteem rather than esteem. They are two sides of the same coin: we have regained the self-esteem of Italians together with the esteem of our European partners. This puts us in the best position to face an important and delicate step such as that of the European Semester. Why did this happen, ladies and gentlemen? I believe that this has happened because the Government, its majority and the Democratic Party, which of the majority and the Government is the main pillar, have held together three fundamental values. The first is that we have not lost the flag of the European ideal, and this choice, which could appear frightening from an electoral point of view, has proved to be our strength. We have not lost the flag of the European ideal. This is not Euroretoric, ladies and gentlemen, but it is part of the core values of a country. See that a party, a party, a government become the government of the country when they know how to interpret the deep values of a country; the value, the choice, the European ideal are one of these fundamental values, for two reasons. One was very well said by the President-in-Office of the Council this morning, recalling Ypres, the place where the next European Council will be held, and the history of war that bloodied Europe: a hundred years ago it began a terrible thirty years ago. Think of that generation that has experienced two world wars, millions of deaths among Europeans, a European civil war. Never again is war the fundamental principle that has given birth to Europe. It is no coincidence that the legal basis for European integration lies in Article 11 of our Constitution, the same article that bans war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples. Then there is the future. It is not only necessary to have the best memory of the past, to take into account the lesson of the past, but there is the future theme: only together can Europeans have a weight and a role in the world. There is a complex but fundamental issue: what is Europe, if not to pool sovereignty? In view of the fact that each European State, with the size of the European States, does not know what to do with it in the global world: we are all too small in Europe for our sovereignty to be real. In fact, this sovereignty, taken separately from each of the European countries, is impotence, it is not sovereignty. Try to explain it, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, to your friend Farage! [[Ironic applause from Senator Martelli. Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Try to explain to him that when there is fog in Britain, it is not the continent that is isolated! [[Ironic applause from Senator Martelli.]] It is Europe as a whole that can play a role, not each country taken in isolation. The second reason is that we have rejected the logic of populism, of opposing populisms, which have broken and torn Europe apart in recent months. And you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, cannot create a unitary group in the European Parliament, because it is clear that populism is trying to divide countries again, particularly along the North-South axis. [[Comments from Senators Endrizzi, Cioffi and Marton.]] The populism of the South is against Northern Europe and the populism of the North is against Mediterranean Europe. [[Comments by Senators Cioffi, Martelli and Martone.]] Instead, we are working with our Government - and this is the third fundamental point - for a new pact between the North and the South of Europe, a new pact that puts Europe in different conditions. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u106	Senator Giarrusso, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u107	TONINI (PD). It's okay, ma'am. I'm used to assemblies. I try to explain this fundamental point. As I said, we are working on a new pact: this is the basic theme, and Italy, which has regained credibility through political stability and through the reforms it is pursuing, is the main subject - certainly together with the countries of the North, starting with Germany - to put Europe on another path. There isn't a way of punching each other on the table and big words they say. Usually those who scream and do it because they have few arguments; it is those who have solid arguments that do not need to scream and can instead reason. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups.]] Our Government is thinking in Europe and is building the conditions for a new pact: both on the economic side - I am thinking of the things said before by my colleague Mr Guerrieri Paleotti - and on the immigration, foreign and energy policy side we are opening a new way for a stronger Europe, both inside and around the world. In this Europe Italy can play an important role precisely because it has given itself a challenging project of change, and here is the other essential political element of today's debate, namely the prospect of commitment that the President of the Council has put forward to Parliament and that we share: a thousand days of intense work to transform Italy deeply. It is through this road, through a path of profound transformation of Italy, that our country will contribute - and I am sure we will - to changing Europe. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u108	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller and Susta to vote by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u111	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I tabled motion for a resolution No 4 on the assumption that the Government would read it and that it would give the Senate a say. I believe that this is a parliamentary Chamber: someone else believes that it is something different. I withdraw motion for a resolution No 4 to safeguard the Senate from rejecting a sensible thing. I would expect that the government, at least on the subjects of foreign policy and European policy, on which all governments have always sought convergence, would not behave with the arrogance with which it behaved today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LNP-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]] Let us not forget the absence of football, which has also brought bad luck to our national team, but I would expect to go on the subject and not to say no to everything that is not approved without discussing what Mr President-in-Office of the Council has said. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LNP-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u112	The motion for a resolution No 4 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Paolo Romani and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, first of all, I must apologize to Senator Fattori, who I unfairly involved in the game. For those who were here could neither bring good nor bad; those who were not there and went to see her may have done good or bad. However, these are irrelevant issues and I apologize for that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In view of the number of requests for the end of the sitting and of the circumstances, I would like to refer the matter back to the next sitting. I also believe that this issue should be regulated at the next Conference of Leaders, because meetings should only be convened specifically for the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-268.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 25 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.08 p.m.
