ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1070, 315 and 374.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the civil responsibility of the magistrates is also part of the broader and more comprehensive reform process that is finally involving Italian justice. The civil liability of the magistrates, together with the reform of civil justice, which we have already addressed in this House, and together with other measures that we will address, including in particular the anti-corruption and mafia measures, is a fundamental point of the reform of Italian justice. I would like you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay attention to changing the context within which we place reforms on justice. The old context conflicted politics with the judiciary, but above all it conflicted institutions with an inviolable constitutional cornerstone, especially in the life and democratic history of our country enshrined in our Constitution: the independence and autonomy of the judiciary. The conflict with this constitutional value must put it behind us. It is not easy and there are still slopes that go in that direction, but it is good that we all carry out together and leave so devastating a conflict behind us that it only harms our society and our citizens. What is the new dynamic that we must all contribute to building and promoting? It is the reform of justice at the service of citizens. It's another dynamic, it's another step. People today are demanding more guarantees, more security and at the same time faster and faster justice. A justice able, in serious times, that are those of modernity, that is, in certain times, to provide a real definition of the litigation and the law that it considers violated. That is why we must enter this new context: enough with war and with the ruinous zero-sum conflict, yes to a new dynamic of radical reforms, innovative and at the same time devoid of a devastating conflicting dimension. In this new phase, it is clear that dialogue is being tightened and there can also be space for different visions, which should not be demonized. There may even be a certain degree of conflict with the judiciary itself, but it is different from the previous one, because the new dimension, which could also have a certain level of conflict, no longer has the objective of calling into question the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. The aim is instead to increase the level of protection, security and speed and above all the reliability, in reference to civil justice, of our country in order to attract investments and guarantee free competition, putting behind us the idea of the "Italetta" that rigs the budgets and makes the vice of lawlessness its strength, where this vice has proved to be its point of weakness. That is where the civil liability of the magistrates lies. Colleagues, Europe clearly says no to the direct responsibility of the magistrates. There is no country in Europe where it is planned and Europe itself does not agree with such an approach. We have done well, therefore, in the course of the work of the Justice Commission, to abandon this path. We were right to oppose it and I think it was a good result to have found a broad consensus in saying clearly that even the Italian Parliament, starting from the Senate, does not choose the path of direct responsibility. Europe demands responsibility for the state and the same threat of infringement that is being made by Europe has this objective: Member States must provide for civil liability for which the state assumes the first responsibility. 16:45 p.m. (Lumy followed). The mechanism that has been identified in the Justice Commission provides for a first phase concerning the relationship between the citizen and the State: the citizen can act against the State and can act on civil liability. The choice which, ladies and gentlemen, has been made in this regard, with respect to the Vassalli law, to the prince law of the civil liability of the magistrates, provides for a wider possibility on the part of the citizen to appeal to the State. In the new text approved by the Commission, the following is supported: It is the manifest violation of the law and of European Union law, the misrepresentation of the fact or evidence, or the affirmation of a fact the existence of which is incontestably excluded from the acts of the proceedings or the denial of a fact the existence of which appears incontestably from the acts of the proceedings, or the issue of a personal or real precautionary measure outside the cases allowed by the law or without specific and adequate motivation. As you can see, through an amendment requested by several groups and by the Government, the expression will be deleted: "specific and adequate motivation" to leave: "without motivation". Colleagues, the citizen has, therefore, more opportunity to see recognition of the wrong he has suffered from a justice denied or wrong. A real opening is therefore included within the civil liability of the magistrates. Then there is a second phase: when the State can compete against the magistrate. Colleagues, the choice that has been made in this regard has a twofold novelty. The first news is that it skips the filter. As has been said in various interventions during the general discussion, in Italy the Vassalli law was not blocked by the conducts of serious fault that it established, but was jammed in front of a filter that, in fact, let pass, if not in very few cases and with results that can be counted on the fingers of a hand, of the simple and residual forms of civil responsibility. Therefore, this is the novelty that we have voted and evaluated, not without difficulty and not without a process of maturation: even within our Group, it was believed that the filter had to be renewed, but, in some of its dimensions, maintained. In the end, however, the decision that was made, in agreement with the Government and with all the Groups, was to remove the filter completely. The Vassalli law, however, remains - among other things, it was a strong point of its own - that, alongside the manifest violation of the law and those other aspects that constitute serious fault, the reference that these violations must be determined, as well as of course by the dole, by inexcusable negligence. This is in order to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, that it can come back from the window as - as I said at the beginning - we kept out of the door: do not re-present a conflict that could call into question the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that it remains a sensitive issue, which has engaged the Commission and also the debate in this House: the problem of so-called interpretation. Whose power is this? Whose responsibility is this? Dear colleagues, we must always start from our Constitution, which in Article 101, second paragraph, says in a lapidary way, with a caustic phrase that leaves no doubt, that the magistrate is subject only to the law. There are no spaces for different readings, especially for forced readings. Therefore, if we want to change the idea that interpretation is a fundamental point of the activity of the judge, the magistrate, we must make a choice, the more transparent one, and take the main course of amending our Constitutional Charter. Colleagues, ours is not a system of common law, in which the binding of the judge, of the former, has a supreme value, which imposes itself as a sort of stronger judge towards the minor judge. There is no such hierarchy in our system. In the Italian system, the Constitution has set aside, by history, by tradition, for the democratic culture built in our juridical civilization, an option of this kind, so the idea of considering as a conduct to be subject to civil responsibility not to abide by the ruling of the Cassation in united sections cannot, dear colleagues, become a point to be included in the ordinary law that provides for the civil liability of the magistrates. It is a point that should be inserted through, for those who agree, a reform of our Constitution, because there is a systematicity that should be distorted and that requires equally systematic intervention of totally different cuts. Attention, colleagues, there is also a cultural evolution in the common law system, which is beginning to strengthen the law. There is also an evolution within civil law systems, even within our system, which increasingly gives quality and value to interpretation and so also to the previous interpretation, so that the discussions and assessments that have been carried out are not to be demonised, there is no ideological conflict about the pluralism of views that has been advanced, but we need to reform the system of civil responsibility within a constitutional framework, within a systemic framework that guarantees the citizen and at the same time does not go to disarticular our system. That is why, in the face of the Europe which makes a very clear choice in its Treaty, which is to create a homogeneous system in the Member States, so much so that it leaves its Court the primary function of interpretation (and there is a real historical justification for this), in our constitutional system this choice is not there because, precisely, we are not in the same conditions as Europe must act in order to build a homogeneity between the various Member States with all the differences that exist within the different cultural and legal contexts of the different countries. That is why I think that we can move on to the amending phase with an attitude that tries to exploit the work done in the Commission and, as always, we agree on the reform work that the Commission is often engaged in here in this House. We can certainly avoid many problems that have divided us, build a real unity and, as we often say, try to lay off this very important reform with a broad sharing and a modern solution, as Europe asks us to do. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u10	The general debate is closed. I note that amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u11	I greet the students of the State Institute of Higher Education John Maynard Keynes in Castel Maggiore, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u12	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly the essential points of the reform, which seem to me to be particularly important, beyond the parliamentary debate and what will emerge from the subsequent debate on the individual amendments. In fact, the text confirms the indirect responsibility of the magistrate: on this issue there must be no misunderstanding and I therefore believe that the line of the Vassalli reform is confirmed. We therefore remove any misunderstandings that have been introduced in the previous debate. The essential point of the reform under consideration is the removal of the filter, so there are no more impediments, except those that derive from the determination of the facts through the trial and therefore from the conclusions to which the judge will arrive, in ascertaining the responsibility of the State and later the responsibility of the magistrate. It has been foreseen to enlarge the cases of gross negligence, which have been expanded and in some cases better identified. Civil liability for serious misconduct is extended not only to the facts related to the limitation of personal freedom, but also to non-patrimonial, moral and also to acts which have not intervened on the limitation of persons, but on goods, therefore to a number of cases which were not previously foreseen. In particular, there was an increase in the limit of the revenge against the magistrate who committed the event, from one third to half of the net annual salary, at the time of the appeal. Accountability is confirmed, which is also applied in these situations. The situation which in recent years has prevented significant action against judges, but also a finding of the civil liability of the State, is therefore considered in general. This is in fact the first objective, to give citizens the opportunity to act against the State, when a servant commits a serious crime. In fact, it is clear that there are no limitations as far as the dole is concerned: in the event of a positive determination of the dole, there is no limitation. With these considerations and with the contributions that could arise from the next phase, even in the event of approval of the amendments tabled, on which the rapporteur and the Government will express their opinion, I believe that we can start the final phase of this action, which has been awaited for years by our country and by all the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u14	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u15	Mr President, the debate has been very intense and of course there were different starting positions on this measure, as demonstrated by the different draft laws that have been tabled; different positions which are also evident from the amendments tabled. Since 1988, the ineffectiveness of the Vassalli law has been repeatedly affirmed and attempts have been made, in the two branches of Parliament, to amend this legislation, to make it effective and to make it really a mechanism capable of compensating the situations that deserved it. However, we have never come to the debate in the Parliamentary House in order to affirm these needs, through a regulatory change. Today is a good opportunity in this respect. The text already comes with some remarkable novelties. I am referring first of all to the abolition of the filter, which is the rock on which many of the claims for compensation have been broken. I think that through this novelty - I do not think that there are any amendments that tend to propose it - there will be a considerable numerical result, also because up to now we can count on the fingers of one hand the situations of compensation with subsequent revenge. This shows that those who today have highlighted the need for a change of pace from the point of view of this law have taken the lead. How to make this change of pace? Not through a punitive rule or a rule that undermines the prerogatives of the Constitution, but through a balanced text that guarantees the citizen's interest in being compensated by the State, through a text that corresponds to the censures that come to us from the European Court of Justice. It is not a question - I have heard it evoke - of the magistrate's trembling pen, but there is the need for the magistrate to adhere to clear, rigorous, punctual principles and, above all, specified within this provision. Some believe that liberal principles would be overwhelmed by this rule. I have been one of the greatest supporters of an evolution and a change of pace with regard to the Vassalli law and I am proud to be here today in order to finally make this change of pace and to be able to launch this novelty. In the House, during the last parliamentary term, a great deal has been discussed in the Commission. Mutual vetoes have prevented us from taking a step forward. Today, through the commitment of the rapporteur, the President and the Commissioners of the Commission, we have come to have a text in this House. It can be changed: the Government will also show through its opinions that some amendments will be accepted, but it is a pride to come here to hope that through the vote of this Parliament we can also prevent what has been mentioned in some circumstances, namely an urgent measure to meet the complaints that are addressed to our country and to prevent an infringement procedure against our country. Some comments on the amendments will be made later by making a few remarks, especially on the remarks made by Senator Caliendo on Article 4. It is not true that the Government has never highlighted its position on Article 4. In the Commission there was a deleterious amendment to Article 4 tabled by Senator Giarrusso. The Government had expressed a favourable opinion, but Senator Giarrusso, however, for a legitimate choice, withdrew the amendment. Today the government is clearly consistent with this position and presents the deleterious amendment. It seems to me that the work in the Commission has been fruitful and has made progress in the approximation of positions. I hope that the work of this House will enable us to arrive at a text which must not be a compromise, but above all a balance. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u16	I would like to say that the Presidency has received, and is being distributed, the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and its amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, requests have been made for secret ballots on the following amendments: 2.104, 2.117, 2.120, 2.130, 3.101, 5.100, 5.103, 6.101, 6.104 and 8.0.100. With regard to these requests, the Presidency considers voting by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, only for amendments relating to Article 24 of the Constitution, which entrusts to the law the task of establishing the conditions and methods for the repair of judicial errors. It therefore considers the secret vote to be acceptable on the following amendments: 2.104, signed by Senator Stefani, who defines the scope of serious misconduct; 2.117, signed by Senator Caliendo, which extends grave negligence also to cases where the decisions of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation are not taken into account without specific reasons; 2.130, signed by Senator Caliendo, which defines the procedures for determining the manifest violation of European Union law, with particular regard to the case law of the Court of Justice. On the other hand, it is not acceptable to vote secretly on Amendment 3,101, which merely extends the period of revocation for the proposition of civil liability and, in general, on amendments aimed at modifying the content and method of experimenting the action of revalsa, as it relates to the distinct relationship between the State and the magistrate held responsible. Therefore, the request for a secret ballot is not accepted on Amendments 5,100, 5,103, 6,101 and 6,104, which modify the conditions for the exercise of the re-valsa action and the related criteria for commeasurement. With regard to amendments 2.20 and 8.0.100, the Presidency notes that the Budget Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on these proposals. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 113 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, voting by secret ballot would not be allowed. These amendments are, moreover, impossible to propose pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation because of the extraneousness to the object of the bill, which contains: "Discipline of the civil liability of magistrates" Finally, the Presidency states that Amendment 2.19 is not possible, as it is clearly put forward by me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u19	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that I sign the three amendments signed by Senator Cappelletti (2,100, 2,125 and 2,131), which I believe are particularly important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u20	Mr President, Amendment 2,100 provides for the deletion of point (a) of paragraph 1 of Article 2. The latter, in turn, provides for the deletion of words which result from deprivation of personal freedom. The aim of my amendment is to restore precisely these terms, as provided for in the aforementioned rule, namely in Law No 117 of 1988, by limiting the civil liability of the magistrate in cases of deprivation of personal freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u21	Mr President, Amendment 2,101 calling for the deletion of point (a) of paragraph 1 has the same purpose as Senator Cappelletti, who has tabled a similar amendment. I would just add that the intention is to maintain the perimeter of the original standard, having already been removed the eligibility filter and to avoid that, suddenly, you can move from a situation of poor application of the Vassalli law to a situation of impossibility of application in relation to the excess of questions. I would also like to add a brief comment on Amendment 2,105 in my first signature. I would ask that a clarification be made, precisely because of a problem of diction. When it comes to the manifest violation of the law and the law of the European Union, the term 'and' is not, in my opinion, sufficient to specify that it is a manifest violation of the national law and the law of the European Union on the other hand. I know that the Government believes that this wording is already sufficiently clear. I am also willing to withdraw this amendment, but if I have a guarantee from the Government that this will not give rise to strange interpretations of this diction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u22	Mr President, I particularly wanted to draw the attention of my fellow Members to Amendment 2.104. In fact, the content of this amendment is well known to the Commission and is the result of a preparation made during the debate with colleagues. A similar amendment had already been tabled in the Commission. In practice, I have reproduced the proposal made at the time by the rapporteur, Senator Buemi, with amendment 2,002 (text 3). This was a very important step in the Commission, which had also led to the formulation of various sub-amendments to improve this text. In my view, we could not fail to recognise that there was a certain degree of membership on the part of our colleagues. In particular, I would like to refer to a passage in amendment 2.104, which provides for the formulation and specification of cases of gross negligence, as contained in the Vassalli Act. The amendment repeats points (a), (b), (c) and (d) which were already contained in the Vassalli Act, but introduces a very particular one, the letter (e) (on which we had a wide discussion in the Commission), considering grave fault also the case in which the magistrate departs, without adequate justification, from the interpretation of the law expressed by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. This is an important step, and I ask the whole House to dwell on it, to consider whether it is precisely the assumption of responsibility to depart from what is a judgment given by the Court of Cassation to united sections: the assumption that legal practitioners certainly mean a particularly important one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u23	Mr President, I was very pleased to hear you declare Amendment 2.19 unacceptable. Of course, mine was a provocation and I achieved my goal if you declared it improbable, because I believe that a magistrate subject to the judgment of another magistrate who acknowledged the error at least must apologize. Amendment 2.19 does not ask for money, but that at least the magistrate apologizes, nothing more than, after 30 years, did the magistrate who put Tortora in prison: to ascend superior, to get to be the chief prosecutor in an important prosecutor, he asked - subtly, of course - excuse. I believe that at least the Italian people, the people whom I represent, those 21 million citizens who went to vote in 1987 and curse those who protect the judges, as is done in this House, deserve the respect of hearing a word: 'Sorry!' I know that you are a magistrate, Mr President, and this word has never spoken to you, but the surgeon who is wrong at least apologizes to the family of the patient who has been operated and to the work that has been impaired because of his speech; he must ask for it. However, I would of course have withdrawn Amendment 2.19 because it achieved the objective. With regard to Amendment 2.20, I should like to see if there are any. In fact, the Commission's budget and its President Azzollini, for a combined arrangement, say that all professional fitness visits are a burden on the State. Basically, when we put an airplane pilot on a visit to make sure he has the psychoaptitudinal skills to make that flight, this has a cost. But this cost must be borne for all citizens who have to do a job for which the law requires psycho-attitudinal skills that prove their suitability. Well, I have requested it for the magistrates because, dear colleagues, if you go back to the legislative decree of the second Prodi Government, with Minister of Justice Mastella, n. 160 of 2006, as amended by article 2, paragraph 2, of law n. 111 of 2007, you will realize that the changes to the norms on the judicial order speak of evaluation of the professionalism. And you know what this law says? That all magistrates must be subject to professional evaluation every four years from the date of appointment until the seventh evaluation is exceeded and up to 24 years of occupation. Then, from 24 to 40, even if he gets Alzheimer's, if they have deranged diabetes, mental or psychic disorders, they are no longer even subjected to psycho-addiction visits. This says the law, and I simply proposed an amendment, the 8.0.100, in which I propose that the evaluation of the magistrate's psycho-additudinal suitability be entrusted to a college of ASL. We basically give them the license to kill. We, Mr. Deputy Minister, gave him the license to be 007, but they are not as beautiful and fascinating as James Bond: they hurt the sovereign people. We ask him to apologize and, above all, we do not know whether they are qualified to make judgments. So, for an arranged combination, now an important case opens: why do we pay a visit to aviators, doctors, biologists, engineers or civil servants, and the magistrates not? You see, President, I listened to Senator Lumia's speech: the judge must be subject only to the law, but he doesn't have the freedom to do shit, because he goes against legem and therefore he mustn't have this freedom, dear Lumia. On the other hand, Senators Lumia and Casson, who with the 5 Star Movement make a majority in the Justice Commission, go against the will of the Italian people. So, Mr President, I say to you, having explained the amendments that I have tabled, that my proposals are responsible. Obviously, the judge's public apology was a provocation - and I have achieved the goal - but the others are for the protection of the judge himself, because he cannot deliver sentences if he is not fit to do so. You do not know medicine; I said that I am a member of the Justice Commission, Mr President, because justice is ill and must be healed, but that Europe is ill, the hundreds and thousands of citizens who ask for compensation to the State for the damage that someone does. Who's paying? They pay the citizens, they pay double. And when someone says bad justice costs us two points of GDP, they're telling us it costs us 32 billion. The vast majority of judges are serious and capable; to these judges, who work day and night for the justice enshrined in the Constitution, our respect goes. However, there is a small percentage of magistrates who, in order to become mayors of a city, to become parliamentarians or ministers, are ready to sell their mother as well. That is why I believe that Amendment 8.0.100 deserves consideration, on which I would ask you to reflect - I would have withdrawn Amendment 2.20, which has been declared unacceptable - being in line with the provisions of Legislative Decree No 160 of 2006 on the assessment of professionalism. The law amending this decree provides that the assessment of professionalism concerns the ability that, in addition to the legal preparation, that it is also related to the possession of the techniques of argumentation and investigation, or to the conduct of the hearing by the person who directs or presides over it, to the ability to use, direct and control the contribution of the collaborators and the auxiliarys. This is only valid for up to 24 years of age; from then on no. What I say is to provide help, also introducing a psycho-addictional visit, entrusting the evaluation to a college composed of doctors belonging to the local health company and not to the opposition medical college. This happens in all the countries of Europe; only in Italy it does not happen. It is also for this reason that I believe that, because of a principle of fairness and equality laid down in the Constitution, judges can only agree, because their work is protected and, by protecting their work, they protect the citizens, while maintaining the separation of powers. Let us not forget, Mr President, that it is the citizens who are sovereign; let us not forget that in the United States, if a prosecutor does something stupid, he will no longer be a prosecutor, because the citizens send him home.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u26	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to ask Senator Stefani to be able to accept Amendment 2,104 and, if you will allow me, I would like to make a very brief point on this amendment. I thank the Lega Nord Group for imagining this amendment. [[Ironic evidence of denial by some senators of the Lega Nord Group]] They do not accept, Mr President, then it is useless for me to speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is the subscription not accepted? Senator Stefani, do you accept Senator Falanga's request? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, in dissent from my Group! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, Mr President, I would like to thank the Group of the North Legacy for having saved a principle which any liberal-minded law-makers can hope for. At a time when, that is, the judge deviates from the principle stated by the Cassation, he must give reasons for it. Woe, however, to make the Cassazione principle a lead hood that falls on the judge, going to create that staticity of the principle that is harmful. The judges of the Supreme Court must be able to avail themselves - as I said this morning - of that contribution of dynamism and novelty that can come from the case law of merit. For these reasons, I am convinced that I can endorse the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u27	Mr President, as I have already announced in the general debate, I withdraw Amendment 2,17. In the face of a general wording, we have made a few points clear, but in order to avoid discussions I withdraw the amendment, because it refers to the phrase used by the European Court in the so-called Ferretti del Mediterraneo SpA judgment, which, however, is not very appropriate to our legislation. As far as Amendment 2.11 is concerned, I expect the Government to give a favourable opinion, since I call for the deletion of a few words which the Government also calls for the deletion of with Amendment 2,700. Only that the Government wants to limit itself to leaving the words "without motivation" without considering - you, Mr President, teach me - that the apparent motivation or motivation in objective contrast with the acquired elements is often much more serious than the "without motivation." With regard to Amendment 2,117, I was probably unable to make it clear to Senator Lumia and others that this amendment affirms the freedom of the judge to interpret the law also against the Cassation. Mr President, you know better than I do, as Senators Finocchiaro and Casson know, that this is the fundamental principle. The court, if it ignores the principle of law established by the Court of Cassation, commits an inexcusable negligence. This amendment merely states that the court must know the principle of law established by the Court of Cassation and may, on grounds, depart from that principle. It is quite different from being decided by the countries of common low: there the judge is forced not to depart from the decision taken in the same matter. Here, however, the principle is different, and I am surprised that the Government, although the Minister has the ownership of disciplinary action (and this is one of the reasons for disciplinary action), does not take into account the freedom of the judge to assert that subjection only to the law, to which Senator Lumia refers, which can only be exercised in the freedom of interpretation, in the possibility of being free from conditioning, was also that of the Court of Cassation. However, he must justify, in order to avoid inexcusable negligence, his wrong way of being magistrate. The magistrates do not have popular legitimacy; they exercise judicial action in the name of the Italian people, but they do not have a popular legitimacy or a direct appointment. The magistrates have a legitimacy that depends on professionalism, and the latter is also made up of aspects that concern the need to document themselves, in such a way as to allow a correct interpretation and to avoid that, out of ignorance of a principle of law, something wrong is affirmed. On Amendment 2.30 I do not think I have to explain anything. The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is the only one empowered to interpret the rules of European law in order to ensure uniform interpretation of law in all Member States of the Union. In the text already adopted in the Commission we say that the judge must refer the question to the Court of Justice when he has a doubt; when he does not comply with the letter of the law, he must, by law, refer it back to the Court of Justice for interpretation of the rule. No judge of any European State can interpret it. But once it's interpreted, it has to adapt. We have said that the judge must make the reference for a preliminary ruling, but if it has already been interpreted it must adapt to that interpretation. To say the opposite means to take a position contrary to the principles of European law. At the same time, Mr President, in the general debate I said that I proposed to replace, as many other amendments do, the statement of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union, which is a European language which also indicates regulations; I refer, for example, to the antitrust rules. The expression, translated into our law and our language, does not make the idea. I have asked the Government to make a rewording that takes into account my amendment and the part of the amendment introduced by the Government, i.e. translating it into measures and rules. I shall conclude on Article 2 by saying that I agree with the admission of the secret vote on these two amendments on the basis of the last paragraph of Article 24, and I would ask you to reconsider your determination with regard to amendment 5,103 concerning the same issue. Article 24, last paragraph, refers to the ways in which judicial errors are repaired; this amendment specifies the elements, reasons and rules that identify serious guilt and those that identify the dole. This is the same issue that we have just dealt with on the two amendments. I therefore hope that the Government and the rapporteur on the amendments to Article 2 will give a clear indication, because if we could all give this indication, Mr Vice-Minister, the whole measure would probably take on another meaning. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u28	Mr President, as regards amendments 2.108, 2,109 and 2,112, there is a Government proposal represented by amendment 2,700 which, in fact, reformulates the part dealt with by these amendments. Therefore, President, I withdraw them and adhere to the Government's proposal. On the other hand, I maintain amendment 2.26, although a reformulation by the Government is announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u29	Mr President, what Senator Lumia has just said about the withdrawal of amendments 2.108, 2,109 and 2,112, which form part of the Government's amendment 2,700, is obviously also reflected in my Group's amendment 2,114, at my first signature, proposed the abolition of the criteria of specificity and adequacy with regard to the motivation of the real and personal precautionary measures which would have opened a very dangerous passage in the application of the law to the detriment of the magistrates. Amendment 2.28 addresses an issue already raised by colleagues who have spoken about the unfortunate wording of the rule of Article 3-a, which refers to the position adopted by an institution of the European Union. I propose the deletion of this paragraph and its replacement by the word 'also', which relates to the continuation of the amendment itself. It seemed to me that the Government had in mind a rewording on this point, with reference to the amendment of Article 3-a and the reference made to the position adopted by an institution of the European Union as a reference criterion for the discrimination of civil liability. I don't know if that's true. In any case, the meaning of amendment 2.28 to my signature was to remove this interpretative trap, which we believe is necessary, except for any subsequent wordings that the Government wishes to present and that we will be ready to evaluate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Buccarella, for the sake of clarity: is Amendment 2.14 withdrawn? BUCCARELLA (M5S). No, Mr President, I would have no reason to withdraw it, since we have seen with satisfaction that the Government, with the amendment tabled yesterday afternoon, has accepted the consideration that it was also ours, without wanting to do issues of birthright.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u32	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to sign Senator Buccarella's amendment 2.28. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella agrees? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u33	Mr President, in view of the absence of Senator D'Ascola, the first signatory to Amendment 2.21, I will explain this. I would also like to take advantage of the same considerations on Amendment 5.07, and then I would like to say that I have to say that we thought that Amendment 2.21 would better, in a clearer way, sculpt the situations in which there may be responsibility. Among other things, it points to the problem, which has also been highlighted by other Members and which remains in other amendments, of the explanatory statement, which is mentioned here as a sufficient explanatory statement. I believe that when discussing such important matters there must be intellectual honesty. Well, in recent days I have read statements from magistrates of the National Association of Judges or from members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary who contested the supposed will of Parliament not to allow the magistrates to depart from judgments issued by the Court of Cassation to united sections. Nothing more false! We must put ourselves in the shoes of a citizen or an entrepreneur who diligently looks at the norm for what it is and then, prudently, knowing that that rule has been interpreted differently, goes also to verify what the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation have said about that interpretation and, trusting the law and the United Sections, comes into question. Then you can find a magistrate - and I think it is right - that despite the terms of the law, which according to the citizen or the entrepreneur are clear, and despite the judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, you will think that you will make him lose the case. It may occur that, although the Court of Cassation has repeated several times the same interpretation of the rule, that magistrate decides for a different or contrary interpretation. And so, we do not dispute the right of the magistrate to depart from the judgment of the Court of Cassation; let us simply say that he must justify why he deviates, making clear and legible to the citizen the reasons why he considers that the jurisprudence of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation is to be adapted or to be overcome. This was written in Amendment 2.21, along with other things. We withdraw it, as we withdraw amendment 5107, but the problem remains and we see that it is also highlighted in other amendments. It is right, because I believe that Parliament, for the sake of clarity with regard to both judges and citizens, must say that rules and interpretations, even at the highest level, can be changed or exceeded, but it must be done in clarity, explaining and motivating why different decisions are taken. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u34	Senator Giovanardi, do you withdraw amendment 2.21? GIOVANARDI (NCD). Yes, Mr President, and I also announce the withdrawal of Amendment 5.07.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u37	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 5,103. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, you will say that when we examine Article 5. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). But Senator Caliendo has already illustrated it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For now we are in Article 2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to say that, when I say otherwise, I would ask Members to withdraw their amendments. The contribution they have made with these amendments, on which we have not found convergence, has in any case been positive and has allowed us to develop a dialectic, a reasoning and a deepening. So there is also a call for withdrawal on all the amendments that I shall be voting against. I am opposed to Amendments 2.100, 2.101 and 2.103 and to Amendment 21.02 by the rapporteur. On Amendment 2,104, I would like to call on the authors to withdraw, bearing in mind that the rapporteur has also made a thorough statement on this issue. However, in the overall assessment of the measure, I believe that a negative opinion is in order to achieve the final objective of giving an effective reform, albeit with some limitations. The opinion was also negative on Amendments 2,105 and 2,106. Amendments 2.107, 2.108 and 2.109 have been withdrawn because they are incorporated into the Government's amendment. I am against Amendments 2,110 and 2,111 and I am against Amendment 2,700 by the Government. Amendment 2.12 was withdrawn because it was incorporated into the Government's amendment. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendment 2.13 and it seems to me that this has been accepted by my Parent Company. The opinion is in favour of amendment 2.114, while it is negative on amendments 2.115, 2.116, 2.117 and 2.118. Amendments 2.19 and 2.20 are unacceptable, and Amendment 2.21 has been withdrawn. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 2,122 and the parent company, Zeller, has already confirmed that it is willing to do so. I welcome Amendment 2.23 and against Amendments 2,124 and 2,125. Amendments 2.26 and 2.127 have been withdrawn as they are absorbed by Senator Buccarella's amendment 2.28. Amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn. Amendment 2.30 by my colleague...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u39	Senator Buemi, excuse me for interrupting, but I have to ask you if you have given a favourable opinion on Senator Buccarella's amendment 2.28, which incorporates Amendments 2.26 and 2.127, because you delete the first part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u40	That's right, ma'am. I call on the presenters to reformulate amendment 2.30, if colleagues consider it useful with the passing of the secret vote, rewording which I can express immediately and which is the following: • In paragraph 1 (c) • paragraph 3 bis • second sentence • add the following words: • as well as the contrast with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union •.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u43	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I accept the rewording, but if you write about the contrast, without saying the word 'act' or 'provision', it is not good, because you must indicate what is contrary to the interpretation of the European Court of Justice. I agree with the rapporteur, and I therefore accept the rewording, but with this clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u44	The proposed rewording goes in the sense of adding, after the words 'of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union', the words: 'as well as the contrast with the interpretation expressed by the European Court of Justice', but if I have understood correctly, this rewording, as it is, if there is no inclusion of the word 'act' or 'provision', does not accept it, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u47	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, a favourable opinion has been expressed on Amendment 2.28, which, when accepted, deletes a few words from the text because it replaces them. In view of amendment 2.28, if accepted, the resulting text would be: In the event of a manifest infringement of European Union law, account must also be taken of the non-compliance with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling (...).................................................................................................................................. If Senator Caliendo then accepted the rapporteur's proposal for rewording, the reworded text would recite, in the end: "as well as the contrast of the act or measure with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union." That would be the result.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u48	I understand that there may be contradictions, and I therefore ask for the rapporteur's opinion. In fact, amendment 2.28 seeks to delete the words: "of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union, and " of the European Union, while amendment 2.30 maintains the same period. It is a contradiction that we must put to the rapporteur to understand whether the words 'the position adopted by an institution of the European Union', which would be deleted from the adoption of amendment 2.28, would then be reworded in the rewording of amendment 2.30. Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u49	No, Mr President, I am sorry, but both Amendment 2.28 and Amendment 2.30 feel that they have to delete the words: 'of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union'. However, while amendment 2.28 limits the period to words: "In the event of a manifest violation of European Union law, account must also be taken of the failure to comply with the obligation (...) ", with the amendment 2.30 tabled by Senator Caliendo, as reworded, the words are added: "and the contrast of the act or the measure with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u50	No: the reference to an act or measure is not included in the rapporteur's proposal for rewording. This is the object of the contrast between the speaker and Senator Caliendo. Do I understand, Senator Buemi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u51	Mr President, I am sorry, but I spoke because it seemed to me that some confusion had arisen. As with all the discussions on draft legislation, we have a rapporteur, whom I would urge you to explain to us as a text, in your opinion, with the rewording of Senator Caliendo's amendment, we would vote, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u52	I had already given the floor to the rapporteur for this purpose. Please, Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u53	Mr President, Amendment 2.30, tabled by Senators Caliendo and others, calls for the text to be redrafted so that, in addition to the text of paragraph 1 (c) (iii) to the period ending with the words: 'of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union', the words are added: 'as well as the conflict with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u54	So it's an addition. In Amendment 2.28, however, on which a favourable opinion has been delivered, that period of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union is deleted and replaced by the word "also".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u55	But Amendment 2.28 concerns another question, namely the question of referral back to the Court of Justice. Mr President, I am sorry, but I see no contradiction. There are two different situations: with one proposal one period is added and with the other the word "also" is inserted instead of a period that ended with "as well". Amendment 2.30, first signed by Senator Caliendo, as reworded according to my proposal, at the end of the text dismissed by the Commission, in paragraph 1 (c), paragraph 3-a, second sentence, after the words: "Article 267, third paragraph, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union" are added to the words: "as well as the contrast with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union". We can suspend briefly, to clarify the matter also with President Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u58	While Senators Buemi and Palma confabulane, we hear Senator Caliendo, who I think can help us. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think that is clear. At this point I accept the reformulation of Senator Buemi, but I have a problem. I am pointing out that the subject is missing, while failure to comply with the obligation refers to behaviour; it is necessary to include the words "act" or "measure" in the part relating to conflict: it is a matter of drafting. If you want, you do it as president. I accept the amendment, as it has been reworded, because I accept that we are talking about "contrasto" instead of "grave contrast." But if we do not put the words of the act or of the provision, who is the contrast with? With the magistrate? No: with the act or the provision. Instead, the "lack of observance" concerns the behavior of the magistrate, who did not observe the obligation: it is so clear! There's the subject there, and he's not here. I accept the rewording, but I think it needs to be corrected to make it intelligible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u61	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment 2.30, with the consent of Senator Caliendo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo allows that? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to ask the rapporteur, since he is holding back on the clarification offered by the first-signed amendment by Senator Caliendo, what the words "position" adopted by an institution of the European Union mean. Are we writing a rule or are we making a Treaty of Philosophy? What does it mean, in legal language, to talk about the position adopted by the Union? [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Milo]] What are we talking about? When you are unable to perform such delicate functions, you must have the humility not to accept certain assignments. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u62	I believe that there has been clarification: Amendment 2.28 deletes a part and replaces it with the word 'also', while the part that is added is that indicated by the rewording of amendment 2.30 and the contrast with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u63	That's right. But in fact Mr Caliendo's request makes sense, because this text had been agreed with the Government, but in the final reformulation the subject has escaped. The subject of the contrast, of course, is the act or provision of the magistrate. COSTA, Deputy Minister for Justice. The act or measure. Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Whose act or measure, if not the magistrate's?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u64	Sorry, let's read the second period of paragraph 3-a: In the event of a manifest breach of European Union law, account shall be taken of this. At this point we stop and skip the words of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union, which are replaced by the word "also". But then we can't leave it behind. Mr Buemi, rapporteur. It is also replaced by the "Also" (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) " (Also) Excuse me, President, as this reformulation has been agreed with the government... president. Would you like to read what the rule would look like after the amendment? Otherwise we won't get out. [[Comments]] Excuse me. Anyone in a hurry can go.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u67	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as good or bad, despite everything, I am still the President of the Commission and it is not that I have less title to speak of someone else, I would like to clarify what agreement has been reached between the authors of the amendments, the rapporteur and the Government. We are going to vote on a text which, in the end, is as follows: In the event of a manifest infringement of European Union law, account must also be taken of the non-compliance with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling under Article 267 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the contrast of the act or measure with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Reformulation must be done in this respect. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). This is what we will vote for in the light of the acceptance of Senator Buccarella's amendment and of Senator Caliendo's amendment, as reworded in the above terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u68	All right. I would point out that text 2 of amendment 2.30 needs to be drafted by accepting the clarification of Senator Caliendo and is put at the end of paragraph 3 -bis. This was not in the original amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u71	SOLLO (PD). Mr President, I hope that everything has been clarified. I love - and, like me, I think everyone knows what we vote for. I would like to express a thought that belongs to everyone: unfortunately, when something concerns the Commission, even when there is unanimity in that Commission, we come to this House and everything is upset. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] It would probably have been appropriate to put aside Amendments Nos 2.28 and 2.30 if they had no influence on subsequent amendments. If there had been an impact on the following, the sitting should have been suspended for ten minutes in order to find a rewording that would satisfy both Senator Buccarella, who tabled amendment 2.28, and the authors of amendment 2.30. [[Senator Palma's dissension]] Senator Palma, I'm sorry, you were Minister and magistrate, I unfortunately have two degrees, but I don't understand much about this matter. I just like to know what I vote when I vote and not vote in a closed box. It is also necessary to allow non-experts to know what we are doing. It has created a moment of extreme confusion. Probably it was necessary to suspend five minutes or to put aside a moment: it would have been easier to find a solution, which in the end seems to have been found. I hope that it will be in line with this rule. If so, I am the first to please you. I would like to make an invitation: please, when a beautiful and compact text such as this comes out, I would ask you not to call everything into question every time you come to this House. And I know I interpret everyone's thinking! [[Applause from Senators Baptist, Carraro and Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u73	President Palma, I think that's clear. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u74	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President, that is very clear. I am really (I use the term I feel the most) annoyed by Senator Sollo's intervention. But how can Senator Sollo... president. Let's not exaggerate the tones, that's not the case. We've come to... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). No, I'm sorry, Mr. President, but you didn't speak. It has been said that the measures of the Commission of Justice, every time they come to this House, are upheavals: that is not true. The Commission's measures, with the exception of the draft law on Article 416-b, first wording, have been passed here by almost all of us by an overwhelming majority, if not unanimously. Secondly, I spoke, in very clear terms, on what was the subject of the vote that we would have voted on Senator Buccarella's amendment 2.28 and on Amendment 2.30 (text 2) by Senator Caliendo and others. If Senator Sollo, despite having acquired two degrees, could not understand what I said, it is not a problem that concerns the Justice Commission, but Senator Sollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u75	To make it clear what we are voting on, in relation to the two amendments 2.28 and 2.30 (text 2), the text of the second period of paragraph 3-a, Senator Sollo and all those who represented in his speech, is thus reworded (I ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to follow me): In the event of a manifest infringement of European Union law, account must also be taken of the non-compliance with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling under Article 267 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the contrast of the act or measure with the interpretation expressed by the Court of Justice of the European Union, without the words "serious" and "already." Let us start with the views of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u76	The opinion was negative on amendment 2.31. Finally, I call for the withdrawal of amendment 2.32 because it is absorbed by amendment 2.30 (text 2), signed by Senator Caliendo and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u77	Senator Zeller, do you withdraw the amendment? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u78	Mr President, the opinions are in line with those of the rapporteur. I'm just making a point. With regard to the Government's amendment 2,700, the rapporteur's opinion is in favour, but it seems to me that he has expressed an opinion contrary to identical amendments, but the amendments identical to those of the Government obviously receive the Government's favourable opinion (i.e. Amendments 2,113 and 2,114). For the rest, the opinion is in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u81	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that, despite the fact that Senator Sollo is now quite right, in my view, that earlier speeches are not acceptable. You have just read the text that we are going to put to the vote. Then the government took the floor to speak on amendment 2,130...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u82	The government didn't mention that amendment, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Then Senator Sollo continues to be wrong. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government has spoken about amendments 2,113 and 2,114, which are identical to the Government's amendment 2,700. I call on you to clear the atmosphere and proceed calmly in our work. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u85	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u86	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Giarrusso, identical to amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Mussini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.102, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.104, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2106.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u89	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I rise to speak on this amendment, which calls for the words 'European Union' to be added, after the words 'European Union' and before the words 'the misrepresentation of fact or evidence' to be added to the words 'emperance'. In criminal law, and of course in all the European Treaties, it is stated that "imperizia" is defined as the negligence and imprudence proper to those who carry out acts that presuppose the knowledge of technical rules, which does not respect for ignorance, ineptitude or psycho-attitudinal inability. Therefore, the impriety is that of those who commit stupidities (not to use a Frenchism). And I believe that it must be integrated into all criminal rights in Western countries. Mr President, allow me now to make a joke. I have withdrawn Amendment 2.20 on psycho-addiction visits, but I can well say that next time they will have to be extended to the rapporteur and the members of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u91	You have the right to do so. We're in the mood for a compliment exchange today, aren't we? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Why? What did he say? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He said he wanted to extend his psycho-addiction exams to members of parliament in general, I would say, at this point. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Barani, whose content will come back even later in the examination of another article, which was the subject of certain amendments of the New Right Centre which have been withdrawn (obviously what happened a few days ago was nothing more than a storm in a glass of water), poses a very serious problem: a magistrate who makes a mistake out of negligence, obviously serious, inexcusable, must answer or answer, as the entire system of the law says, only out of negligence? When I put this question to the Minister in the Commission, if I remember correctly - but Vice-Minister Costa may deny me - the Minister basically said that we cannot speak of malpractice towards a magistrate because the magistrate, because of the various assessments, has perished. It is as if I were to say that a hospital chief, being the primary of a hospital, has in itself perished, so it would be impossible for a medical cause to be brought against a hospital chief if he had never caused damage because of a serious misdemeanor because of his malpractice. The statement that those who do a certain job, only for this reason, are, as it were, professionally qualified to do everything is a mistake. Overcoming assessments within the Supreme Council of the judiciary does not mean being prepared for all individual branches of law. So, I ask myself: do you really think that a magistrate, who causes unjust damage because of grave fault, because of a serious fault that is related to his impriety, cannot in any way answer for the damage that he has caused, similar to what happens to all civil servants - remember Article 28 of the Constitution - in the event that they commit a fatally serious event because of wrongdoing from which a damage arises? This is the problem that I want to put to the House and to each of you: to decide on the basis of conscience, obviously - excuse me, this is a bit of an effective joke - also thinking that if one of us were to be harmed, by hypothesis, by a serious misdemeanor for serious negligence, one must then remember the moment when he voted here to exclude it, and please do not complain about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u92	I would like to greet the boys of the Liceo Classico "Onorato Fascitelli" of Isernia, who follow our works carefully. We thank them for their visit to the Senate. Thanks, guys! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u95	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, it seems to me that President Palma's speech has brought us back to the general debate this morning. This morning, a fellow Member of the Justice Commission recalled exactly what President Palma has now returned to. In the Justice Commission the Minister said that impriety is not a sign or a case of serious guilt because the magistrate won the contest; at other times it would have been said, with vulgar vocabulary: What's the point? I would like to say that the question of the French model of bureaucratic organisation, resulting from the victory of the competition, cannot be raised again on these profiles of responsibility. It's got nothing to do with it. I then have the impression that, whatever the attitude of my Group, Senator Barani did well to collect the term "imperizia", that Senator Albertini had fallen under the Minister's "frustrata", because the "frustata" in this case has a very improper motivation. I am willing to follow with great patience all the lexical acrobatics of this world on the relationship between malice and gross guilt, but to evoke the contest, and therefore the constitutional model of bureaucratic organization of the Italian judiciary, is a decidedly improper argument. It is not possible to exclude Parliament's right to legislate on this subject with corporate protection. Let me remind you that, if you want to assert a professionalist corporate model, this is the Anglo-Saxon model, where there is the corporate unity between the profession of lawyer and that of magistrate and this Anglo-Saxon model, never in its constitutional history, neither Parliament, nor the judiciary, have been close. That is why it seems to me that we cannot fail to accept the explanation which President Palma gave of that amendment, signed by Senator Albertini during his examination in the Commission, and which now brings to the House the signature of Mr Barani. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.107, 2.108 and 2.109 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,700, tabled by the Government, identical to amendments 2,113, tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators, and 2,114, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.12 has been withdrawn. Amendments 2.15 and 2.16 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,700. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,117, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u99	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I am voting against the Democratic Party. Indeed, this amendment seems absolutely useless to us. Our system does not provide for a hierarchy of decisions to which a judge who has to take another decision must be adapted. In essence, there is no obligation to adapt to the decisions of the case-law which have been created, even if this is formed by the Court of Cassation and even by the Chambers of the Court of Cassation. So the judge can always depart: it is already provided in our system that the judge may deviate, when taking a decision, from a dominant orientation, only prevailing or even constant. It is clear, and this is already provided for in our system, that any decision must be properly justified. In our system there is a fundamental principle based on guarantees, in the sense that all measures of first and second degree can still be challenged and the reason for the appeal may be that of the lack or lack of motivation. Expanding the scope and scope of gross negligence, by providing that it is integrated even when it deviates from the case law, would obviously lead to aberrant solutions and would open a vulnus in the principle of impartiality and freedom of decision of the judge because there would be the risk of incurring in the faults of the liability provided for by this law only differing from the case law. It would be useful to know - albeit always, as I said earlier, that there is an obligation to state reasons - what is the criterion for assessing when a statement of reasons may be considered appropriate or not. In this sense, there would be an enormous and inadequate margin of discretion which could encourage anyone to propose a procedure or liability action whenever a decision taken by a judge, even if it deviates from the case law, is not welcome or shared. That is certainly not the objective of this law and we shall therefore vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u102	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement will vote against this amendment because we believe that the value of independence and autonomy of the judiciary should be preserved. The judges, for our Constitution, are subject only to the law, not to a hierarchical relationship, not even to subjects who hold positions in supra-ordained judiciary. This principle has never been part of our legal system and the degree of judgment serves only to review decisions, certainly not to hierarchize decisions. Moreover, in our country the history of law very often starts from below, from courageous, advanced and evolutionary interpretations, which in the end were made own also by the Cassazione; I repeat, very often start from below. This amendment seeks to channel and harness the possibility that the judiciary evolves in the interpretation of law. That is why I am announcing our vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u105	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have always had respect for this House and for each of you and I have never given a reading of an amendment contrary to what you say. I accept the explanations of vote, but we cannot talk about hierarchy and uniformity, because I have transmitted to each of you the report of President Fresa of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to the debate organized by the Association Vittorio Bachelet. We are almost at the limit of the abnormal measure. I am sorry, Senator Cucca, but Amendment 2.117 does not say that the judge must be consistent: he must only take this into account, that is, know it. It's like we're talking about the subjection to the law and the judge doesn't know the law. To say then that one must know the decision of the Cassation connotes the function. That's why disciplinary proceedings are issued. You also have four or five magistrates in your group and you can interview them: this is the rule of the judge's freedom of decision. You're messing with something that doesn't say. Take any volume of disciplinary case law, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation and you can verify it. I believe you will give me notice that I have always, out of fairness and respect, adhered to you and Parliament; I have never given an interpretation that does not adhere to what is written. It is written here that the judge is free to decide as he wishes, but precisely because he is free to decide as he wishes, he must be able to know the principles of law laid down by the Court of Cassation and Get away from it. This is one of the fundamental rules not only of our system, but of all liberal systems. I have already said that it is not the decision of the countries of common law, because there is the identity of the decision. The judge also has his decision and in another identical case he can well explain otherwise (even in that case he is obliged to quote the previous one). In my forty years of judiciary, as I believe also President Grasso, Senators Casson and Palma, Senator Finocchiaro and each of us magistrates, in writing the sentence I have always written: "The Court of Cassation supports this, and for these reasons I depart from that statement and arrive at another conclusion". That's the rule. It is the teaching that a newly appointed magistrate is given. On the contrary, I am hearing today about the things that are outside the amendment; we want to standardize and take account of them. The Minister of Justice who has the ownership of disciplinary action to a magistrate who will make a judgment in this way, without citing and without motivating, will do disciplinary action; I ask the Vice Minister, since he will do disciplinary action, why today he says no. You're playing on something that doesn't make sense, because that's a rule. If the Minister can take disciplinary action, it is the greatest of inexcusable negligence. Give me a worse case of inexcusable negligence than this one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u107	Senator Falanga, you can only speak for an explanation of vote in dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u108	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to endorse amendment 2.117. I'd also like to remind Senator Cucca that it's true, and there's no need for him to remember... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u109	Senator Falanga, we note that you intend to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u110	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I subscribe to amendment 2,117 and I have the need... Senator Caliendo, do you accept? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. Barani (GAL). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). ... I need to point out that it is known to us that the judge has the obligation of motivation but, apparently, escapes that in Senator Caliendo's amendment the motivation becomes specific!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u111	Senator Falanga, please, please: Senator Barani has the right to make his explanation of vote. We have noted that you support the amendment and agree with Senator Caliendo. I pray Senator Barani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u112	Mr President, first of all I would like to say to Senator Falanga that I did not take his word for it: I only asked to speak in an explanation of vote when it was my turn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u113	It is not that we can make fifty explanations of vote, Senator Barani; you have not taken the floor, because you cannot take it away. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u114	Barani (GAL). Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I also want to endorse Senator Caliendo's amendment, but I am speaking to carry out a political and then technical reflection. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The political reflection on this amendment is that it is clear to all Italian citizens and also to you, Mr President, that here, on justice, there is an M5S-PD majority and that all the clowning on the occasion of the last confidence is summed up in an agreement below the table to do their interests and the interests of the judges, because they believe that by doing so they will have immunity. In the referendum, we're making fun of 20 million Italians, because they didn't want what you're doing now. Mr Cucca, Mr President, let us imagine what could happen if the principle that Senator Cucca has just invoked to a surgeon were applied. These could get wild in the operating room, perhaps bypassing protocols, procedures and established medical doctrine, or that he had as teaching by his teacher, and might be driven by the principle of immunity to dare. The surgeon could kill the patient. In fact, we have created 007 with a license to kill because the judges with certain sentences have led to suicides and the economic destruction of families and nobody has paid, and that is what tens of millions of Italians know. If there are established protocols and procedures or case-law in all occupational categories, there will be a reason. They make sense and must be respected and those who bypass them and turn them to their own use and consumption, perhaps to then be the mayor, the congressman, to enter the Senate or the Renzi Government, must be called to answer for their actions also against those who suffer a damage from such behavior, obviously without if and without but. We do not understand why this stubbornness by a Socialist Democratic Party! But I, as a socialist, don't recognize you! [[Senator Barani extracts a red carnation from the jacket's pocket and shows it to the House. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u115	Senator Barani, please stick to the subject of the amendment for your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u117	Senator Palma, Senator Caliendo has already spoken for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u118	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr President, just to settle for the vote: has the rapporteur's amendment 2.29 been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u119	Yes, Senator Palma. I already announced it. Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 2.117, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,18 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.19 and 2.20 are unacceptable. Amendment 2.21 has been withdrawn. Senator Zeller, I ask you to accept the invitation that you have been asked to withdraw Amendment 2,122.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u120	Mr President, the withdrawal because the amendment was absorbed by the subsequent rewording of amendment 2,130 proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u121	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23 tabled by Senator D'Ascola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,124, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u124	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 2.25 and 2.31 in the light of the rewording of Amendment 2.30, which sees our Group's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u125	Amendment 2.25 is therefore withdrawn. Amendments 2.26 and 2.127 have also been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Giarrusso. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn. On amendment 2.30, the rewording of which was accepted by Senator Caliendo, the secret vote was requested. I ask whether the request for a secret vote is maintained or not. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, I cannot have the secret vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but didn't you sign the secret vote request? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Having accepted the proposed rewording, the request for a secret vote is withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30 (text 2), tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,131 and 2,132 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u128	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with some amendments we have tried to bring out a balanced measure from this House. For the truth, I have heard, in particular from Senator Cucca, that the amendment of which Senator Caliendo is first signatory provided for and qualified as the hypothesis of guilt the conduct of the judge who decided, with a certain measure, departing from the jurisprudential orientation and from the principle affirmed by the Court of Cassation without specific motivation. We have heard that the reason is already due in itself by the judge, but the interpreter neglected to read carefully Senator Caliendo's amendment, which provided that the motivation should be specific in relation to the judge's distance from the previously stated jurisprudential principle. Senator Giarrusso has even called into question the fact that we want to compromise the judge's position of independence and autonomy. We could have been accused of such an attitude if we had obliged - and deemed obliged - the judge to adapt to the principle of the Cassation and to respect it, but in my speech this morning (perhaps colleagues were distracted, in particular Senator Giarrusso, who also fell into contradiction) I pointed out that the dynamism and the evolution of the case law is a good thing that any legal operator who is motivated by a liberal spirit must hope and that I believe the judges of the Court of Cassation themselves, who profit from the effervescent contributions that come from the decisions of merit. So, Senator Giarrusso, we return to you what you charged us. The amendment proposed by us provided that the judge could decide how best he felt, in his broadest and most complete independence and autonomy, but that he should justify and justify the reasons for which he deviated from the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. As an attorney, when I read a sentence, if the explanatory statement convinces me, I do not propose an appeal, so it is also useful for us legal practitioners to know what the explanatory statement in support of the decision is. Moreover, if the judge justifies the judgment not on the specific point of his departure from the jurisprudential orientation of the Cassation, he places me in a condition of difficulty also in my delicate decision to propose or not appeal. You did not want to accept these clarifications, so this rule is empty, it is devoid of content. I therefore declare the vote against by the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u131	Barani (GAL). Mr President, my group will, of course, vote against Article 2 in its entirety, including on behalf of the 21 million Italians who, twenty-seven years ago, voted in the 1987 referendum for the civil liability of the magistrates. We believe that our vote against is also due to all those magistrates, who are the vast majority, who work diligently, honestly, expertly and skillfully and who, as a body of the State, believe that they are carrying out a mission to defend the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Our vote against, therefore, is also for them, they ask us, because only a small percentage acts contra legem. Dear Senator Falanga, it is useless for him to address Senator Giarrusso, because we believe that by law he understands nothing, and so it is as if he were addressing a plant. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] MARTON (M5S). President, do you not speak on this? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Barani, please stick to the subject of Article 2, which is the subject of your explanation of vote. Barani (GAL). We vote against the article because we believe that impriety is what I have already said, qualifyable for negligence and imprudence proper to those who perform acts that presuppose the knowledge of technical rules and in compliance with the law, which serious magistrates apply every day. If there is a magistrate who doesn't apply them, because he doesn't know it, because he doesn't apply the law, because he doesn't understand it, because he doesn't have the skills anymore or because they have failed for psychophysical or aptitude reasons, we have to guarantee to all the others, who are 99.9 percent, to walk head-to-head and not to have a negative judgment, that today I bring here, on behalf of more than 20 million Italians, including many of the Democratic Party, that I hope do not vote anymore, because it is truly scandalous and shameful what you are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u132	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u133	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. Paragraph 1 (a) increases from two to three years the period in which a citizen can claim compensation for the damage to the State. I wonder why this period should be increased from two to three years and who needs this increase. Is there anyone in particular who needs to challenge a judgment or order that was filed three years ago? I believe that holding a judge in the balance for a broad period of one or two years is already significant, and I do not think that bringing him to three years goes in the expected direction. Therefore, with my amendments 3,100 and 3,102, I simply propose to delete the points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1, which essentially intervene in the same direction, namely to increase from two to three years the period of time in which it is possible to claim compensation for the damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u136	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I also speak on behalf of Senator Bignami to ask Senator Cappelletti if he will allow us to subscribe to Amendments 3,100 and 3,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u137	I see Senator Cappelletti agrees. The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u138	I call for amendments 3,100, 3,101 and 3,102 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u139	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u142	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u143	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u144	I am in favour of amendment 4,700. The 4,100 is withdrawn and for amendment 4,101 I call on the authors to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u145	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u146	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u149	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Government called for the Giarrusso amendment to the Commission, saying that I did not take into account the behaviour of the Government. I should like to take this into account: the Government has tabled a number of amendments to the Commission and has not tabled the deleterious amendment to this article, which has not been touched on by any of us. This article does not stipulate that the sentence of conviction against the State has been in the judgment of revenge or disciplinary, but only in relation to the determination of the facts. It cannot be thought that the judge can question the determination of the facts already passed in court, without prejudice to the subjective assessment of the gross negligence and inexcusability and from the point of view of the action of revenge and disciplinary proceedings. How is it possible to give such a signal, namely that the judgment in question did not even take account of the facts? The government suddenly decides to remove this too. Do you realize that? Let us all rebel by abstaining from voting according to the Group's position. This is true for all of us, regardless of the knowledge of law and judgment; for the basic principles of civil living in a correct society. When there has been a conviction passed in court of the State in which the fact has been established, the consequences of the judgment of revenge and disciplinary that then take account of the subjective element will then be evaluated; what is not questionable is only the fact that it has been established. If you want to vote in favour of the government, then the majority rule really goes against logic too. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u151	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u152	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I believe that the Government has overcome a serious error, because to foresee that the decision of the judgment promoted by the citizen towards the State - and not the determination of the facts, as Senator Caliendo said - can be made in the subsequent judgment of revalsa is a hypothesis of inconstitutionality since, having not the magistrate participated in the first judgment, one cannot in the judgment of revalsa, which interests his person, make him weigh the decision and not only the determination of the facts. It is true that he can participate in it voluntarily, but there is a great difficulty. How do you solve a necessary litisconsorzio hypothesis? It excludes the participation of the judge in the first judgment and then, in the second judgment of appeal, he must accept the decision which was taken in a procedure in which he did not take part. For these reasons, for the sake of art, I must say that I disagree with the indication of vote expressed by Senator Caliendo and I declare my personal vote in favour of this government amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u155	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I will be very brief. It is acceptable what Senator Caliendo has just told us, because in the Commission the Government was present and is also present here. However, I have the feeling that this Government, which has also taken part in the Commission's work, is not consistent with the proclamations of its President-in-Office, who, bold and scuffling, says: judges must also pay, and so on. In fact, there is no consequentiality in what he does, because he did not say anything to us in the Commission. It can be seen that, at a certain moment, he was taken under check or kidnapped by some national association of magistrates who imposed on him, in return, I do not know what this deleterious amendment. I turn to the rapporteur: rapporteur, you were a socialist once. I saw your amendment after the government. Why does the government's amendment come to frustrate a job that I know you did seriously and conscientiously and in which you believed? In the text proposed by the Justice Commission there are two of my bills and one of yours, which led to the civil liability of the magistrates. In short, the government makes you pass the punishment of hell; the government is neglecting you and considers you marginal. Therefore, I think I can close by saying: but how is it possible, with this text that we are going to approve, that an entrepreneur comes to invest in Italy knowing the confusion and power of life and death that these magistrates also have on the economy? They will continue to relocate to Switzerland, even in Spain, Croatia, France, but no one will come to Italy anymore. We are doing an incommensurable economic damage to Italianity and Italy, because we no longer have legal certainty. Moreover, it is not true that all men are equal: there is a power of the State, a Superman category, superior to any other, such as James Bond in the famous films - beautiful, those - of "007".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u158	Mr Buemi, rapporteur. I would simply like to make one point, Mr President, and colleagues. My amendment and the original text of my draft law provided for a different direction than direct and indirect responsibility. At a time when the Commission has unitedly chosen indirect action, it was clear that this element was at odds and, therefore, my position has changed according to this objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u159	Before we proceed to the vote on the amendments referred to in Article 4, I would like to make a communication. I note that at the end of the votes on the articles and their amendments the Conference of the Leaders will meet to define the timetable for next week's work. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments referred to in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u162	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u163	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,700, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4,100 has been withdrawn. Amendment 4,101 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 4,700. As an amendment to Article 4 was adopted, the Rule was therefore not put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u164	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 5102. It aims to eliminate a logical contradiction contained in Article 5. In paragraph 1 of Article 7 of Law No 117 of 1988, it is stated that: The President of the Council of Ministers, within two years of the compensation made on the basis of a court order or an out-of-court order, shall be obliged to take the action against the magistrate................................................................................................ The following paragraph of the same Article 7 reads: In no case is the transaction opposable to the magistrate in the judgment of revalsa or in the disciplinary judgment. This means that if, in the face of the citizen's claim for compensation, the Presidency of the Council, or rather the State, comes to a settlement agreement (i.e. it does not expect a judgment, but the judgment is avoided by a transactive act between the citizen and the State), this transaction is not opposable. In other words, it is not possible to exercise the revenge, because the transaction is not opposable to the magistrate. The consequence of this would be that the sums paid in compensation, in the event of a transaction, in favour of the citizen would inevitably be borne by the State. On the basis of the consideration that it seems appropriate however that the verification of the existence of the dole or the serious fault of the magistrate is the subject of a judgment of ordinary cognition and that also the defenses of the magistrate can be exercised in that place, when it were to contest the existence of the infringement, amendment 5102 aims to eliminate the possibility of out-of-court resolution of the dispute between the citizen and the State and, consequently, to delete paragraph 2 of Article 7 which, at this point, would be useless, in the part where, in force text, it provides that the transaction would not be opposable to the magistrate. In other words, with this amendment we say that the right of compensation of the citizen must be subject to judicial review only and that the exercise of revenge must be exercised in the manner and terms that we shall go to determine according to the votes of the following articles. I believe that this is the only solution that can remove the text of the draft law from this conflict by virtue of which, on the one hand, the transactive closure of the dispute could represent a saving on the part of the State; on the other hand, however, it would prevent the exercise of revenge action. A benefit, therefore, would also involve a sacrifice, even at a logical level and of legal congruence, which I think is resolved by amendment 5102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u165	Mr President, with Amendment 5,103 I am only asking a question of fairness. You have so far voted on the magistrate's grave guilt. Then, if you go to read the text of Article 5, as formulated, in it you even refer to the hypotheses of grave guilt, to those determined by malice, or from inexcusable negligence, thus limiting also one of the hypotheses of grave guilt, excluding imprudence and imprudence. I have allowed myself to present an amendment which, from the point of view of the legislative technique, explicitly asks to replace, in paragraph 1, paragraph "Article 7", paragraph 1, the words "in" i.e. in cases in which "until the end of the paragraph" with: "i.e. in cases of serious negligence referred to in article 2, paragraph 2, 3 and 3-a " - what you have voted - "when the unjust damage was determined by a will." Because if wrongdoing is caused by malice, it may also be outside the case of gross negligence. Even the Vassalli law kept the two hypotheses distinct. Unless you feel that you have to restrict the area of responsibility of the judges also from the point of view of cataloging the dole as the hypothesis of serious guilt. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't fit in with Article 2. Although we voted against Article 2 because you did not want to include a peaceful figure in the life of the magistrate, I would stress that this is only a correction that takes into account what you have done, but at least it is intelligible and understandable, both from the point of view of gross negligence and from the point of view of dole. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u166	Mr President, with Amendment 5.05 I would ask that the words: 'they have been determined by maliciousness or inexcusable negligence' be deleted. In fact, I did not understand why we eliminated the inexcusable negligence in paragraph 3 of Article 2, where it is described what constitutes serious fault, and we do not eliminate it here too. I find that there is a discrepancy between the two passages, so if it has been eliminated before it seems to me to do so even now. Amendment 5104 highlights a mere aspect of formal consistency in the quotation of the same sentence between one article and another.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u169	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). On this point, Mr President, I was duly interrupted earlier because we had not yet reached Article 5. With the consent of Senator Caliendo, I would like to subscribe to Amendment 5,103, and I would like to make it clear that I referred to a legislative fraud at some point this morning in general discussion. Why did I talk about legislative fraud? I would like to take this opportunity, by signing this amendment, to clarify it. Look at this, the situation is with the magician Merlin: while in the first judgment of the citizen against the State the pendent case must be identified in the serious fault of the judge, who then obviously has the object of compensation, in the subsequent judgment of revenge this grave fault, which was the subject of the determination of the first judgment - it is for this reason that I have just abstained and I appreciated the Government's amendment in the deletion of Article 4 - well, in the second judgment, this serious fault degrades, reduces itself, is slimmed into an inexcusable negligence. Now, with all good will, also paying attention to the terminological profile of the two words (inexcusable negligence), I cannot understand how ever a judge of the judgment of revenge will ever make the determination of this inexcusable negligence. What is the scam? While the citizen and the citizen simply have to prove the judge's grave guilt, the state against the magistrate must prove nothing, the serious guilt disappears. There's still a fantasy imagination. From the point of view of the imagination of those who imagined this escamotage, I must express my appreciation, but as a jurist, as a politician, as a senator of this Republic I must say that this is what I call "legislative fraud." PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u172	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I understood your decision correctly, you essentially denied the secret vote on Amendment 5,103, on the assumption that the content of this amendment concerns the internal relations, as it were, between the State and the magistrate. Mr President, I take note of this subtle and, in my opinion, forced distinction, but I would point out to you that the last paragraph of Article 24 of the Constitution says more or less that the law determines the conditions and methods for the repair of the judicial error. The fact that we come to this issue is peaceful, given that you have already admitted secret ballots on the basis of this assumption. However, I would point out to you that the conditions and methods of remedying the judicial error concern the procedure as a whole and that fragmentation is not allowed, because the action of revenge arises with reference to a gravely manslaughter attitude of the magistrate from which the responsibility of the State is determined. If the Constitution wanted to be sophisticatedly and surgically precise, it would have said that the law governs the repair of judicial error. But obviously, even taking into account the provisions of Article 28 of the Constitution - President, you know better than we do that up to the Vassalli law the responsibility of the magistrates was a direct responsibility and that the Constitutional Court had repeatedly affirmed the constitutionality of that direct action precisely on the basis of Article 28 - a correct interpretation of the last paragraph of Article 24 of the Constitution, can only lead to the conclusion that that rule concerns the whole of the process of repairing judicial error, including obviously the part of that procedure which refers to the relations between the State and the magistrate. I recall that Article 28 of the Constitution speaks of the responsibility of the civil servant who extends to the State: consequently, from my personal point of view, to provide for fragmentation, when that rule of the Constitution is clearly directed to the whole procedure, does not seem to me a correct interpretative operation, although, I must say the truth - without imagining in any way that his decision was led by feelings other than those that are proper to her as President of the Senate - I realize that the secret vote on amendment 5203 and on the subsequent 6101, probably for a lack of government security in the majority forces, would not have been well received.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u173	With regard to the considerations put forward by Senator Palma and, previously, Senator Caliendo on the question of the secret vote, the Presidency, in recalling again the last paragraph of Article 24 of the Constitution, which Senator Palma also recalled and which entrusts to the law the conditions and methods for the repair of judicial errors, observes that this provision only aims to ensure adequate protection for those who are damaged by such errors. This is confirmed by the principle laid down in the following Article 28 of the Constitution, which expressly states that civil servants and civil servants of the State and public bodies are directly responsible, in accordance with the laws, civil, criminal and administrative, for acts carried out in violation of rights, and that in such cases civil liability extends to the State and public bodies. The subject of the judgment of revalsa concerns only the relationship between the person responsible for the conduct of damage and the public subject on whom it depends, that is, the State, and therefore finds the basis in Article 97 of the Constitution, and in particular in the principle of the identification of responsibility, referred to in the third paragraph, and does not address the distinct problem of the need to ensure an adequate refreshment to the persons injured by the exercise of the public power or, in the case under consideration today, by the commission of a judicial error. For these reasons, the Presidency can only confirm that Amendments 5,100, 5,103, 6,101 and 6,104 are not allowed to vote in secret. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u174	Mr President, on Amendments 5,100, 5,101, 5,102 and 5,103, I would like to ask you to withdraw otherwise. I am in favour of Amendment 5.04. On Amendment 5105, 5108 and 5110, I would like to call for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion would be against it. I withdraw amendment 5106.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u175	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u178	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u179	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u182	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I take note of the desire not to take account of this. You are voting - and I am appealing to the Presidency - that the assumption that it is serious fault can be determined by malice. This is written in the text of the bill. I did not make an amendment to replace it, but to regulate the writing of a rule of law. The dole can bear the unjust damage, of course, but outside the assumptions of grave guilt, and the assumptions of serious guilt, referred to in Articles 2, 3 and 3-a, determine the action of revenge by serious fault: this is written in my amendment, but I do not want to discuss my amending proposal. Correct what you are voting otherwise you vote for something that screams: it cannot be the dole that holds the hypothesis of serious guilt.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u183	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the words "one year." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 5,100 and amendment 5,101 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 5102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 51.02 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.103, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.04 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.05 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5106 and 5107 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.108, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.109 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u184	Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u185	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u186	Invitation to withdraw or to vote against Amendments 6,100, 6,101, 6,103 and 6,104. I withdraw amendment 6.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u187	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u190	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u191	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u194	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 6101 is the other important point of this measure. Our Constitution, in guaranteeing the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, allows, contrary to what happens with regard to all other civil servants, to imagine, as has been imagined in the Vassalli law and as we are now imagining, that action against a magistrate takes place in indirect terms; that is, we are rivals and action is taken against the State and the State is rivals against the magistrate. It is clear that, in the event that action should be directed, this type of action could inevitably have an impact on the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. Having said that, what are we discussing? We're discussing the extent of the revenge. We are faced with a magistrate who has committed a gravely manslaughter behaviour, which falls within the requirements that we have laid down before, on the basis of which unjust damage has been caused to a citizen. Because of the action that this citizen makes against the State, the latter, hypothetically, compensates the citizen with the sum of EUR 200,000, EUR 100,000, EUR 50,000 or EUR 700,000, depending on the type of damage caused. If it were not a magistrate, any public employee who took action of this kind for a seriously manslaughter behavior would respond for the whole. Well, I can't really see in the law a single rule that, once established the serious fault of the magistrate and therefore, essentially, behavior absolutely equal to that of any other type of public employee, gives the public employee to compensation for the whole and the magistrate to a compensation that here is quantified in half of the net salary that the magistrate himself earned at the time of the fact. As I remind all of you that the President-in-Office of the Council on more than one occasion has said 'the magistrate who is wrong pays', I would like to understand in what terms. If, on the assumption, the state were sentenced to pay 150,000 euros to the citizen, the magistrate, considering his average salary at the time of the event and therefore when he was much younger in his career, would not answer for more than 35,000 euros. Who pays the other 115,000 euros? Obviously, the burden can only fall on general taxation and, consequently, is paid by all citizens, including, at the level of taxes, what through the compensation action has obtained compensation. Then, or someone explains to me what the rule justifies this treatment different from that of other citizens - and we have already said that it cannot be the recognition of the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, because that serves for direct action - or I wonder why the magistrate has to pay much less than a doctor, an engineer, a public official and so on, having put in place similar behavior in terms of compensation. We are presenting only this amendment on this point, because there is no legal reason at all for this unequal treatment. If the reason is to be exquisitely political, there is no reason to discuss whether a third or two thirds, one or two years, is better, because it is technically wrong and against the legal system. Maybe in the idea of compensating for the necessary removal of the filter or the reduction of the vacation of the magistrates!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u197	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I agree with what President Palma has just said in a technical and clear manner. I would like to add a political note: compensation is therefore merely symbolic. Let's say that once they've been found guilty by other magistrates, to show that this government brings out something to the wrongdoer, symbolically it also asks the magistrates guilty to give a very small amount. Of course, this is not because of the principles that have led the constituent Fathers with the Constitution; I believe that all the noises that are heard - I do not know if you warn them - are the constituent Fathers who turn in the grave, because we are actually trampling on the Constitution. Let me give you an example and finish the speech, Mr President. The other day we discovered that for some people who were found innocent - and I am referring to the doctors of the Pertini hospital in Rome and the Cucchi case - the sum of EUR 1 million and EUR 350,000 was paid, precisely because they were innocent. Who paid them? The citizens. Therefore, citizens are beaks and beatings, because they always pay: they pay both when doctors are innocent - they give a family compensation only for having withdrawn the civil part, and this obviously makes us say what noble thoughts regulate a family life - both when they themselves have been vexed and - there are few judges condemned because, if God wills, there are few who are guilty of the crime of not practicing a just justice, as our Constitution prescribes - they see themselves paying symbolic sums. It's always those citizens who pay for them. So citizens always pay, and I don't think that's a constitutional principle. I would remind you that the citizens who voted for the referendum in 1987 are more than twice as many votes as the Democratic Party took in the last European elections. So, that's a lot.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u198	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6102 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.103 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6104 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.100 is unacceptable. Appreciate the circumstances, let's move on to the speeches at the end of the session. I inform you that the explanations of vote and the final vote will take place at tomorrow's afternoon sitting, as well as the announcement of the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which is immediately convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u201	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like you to remain in the records that, in recent days, in the district of Tor Sapienza in Rome, there has been a serious incident against a senator: Senator Taverna has been removed from the citizens of the neighborhood, who have judged her to belong to the caste. In that neighborhood there is a serious problem concerning immigration and various issues that we have all been able to see. Some politicians went to that reality: some of them were greeted with applause, others - the mayor, as was predictable - with a certain attention and also with anger on the part of the citizen. Even the 5 Star Movement went to that neighborhood, as I read in the chronicles. So I'm supportive of Senator Taverna. Welcome to the caste, since they kicked her out of the Tor Sapienza neighborhood. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u202	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-355.ana.u203	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 20 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.35 p.m.
