ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,09 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u4	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved by a majority changes and additions to the current schedule of work. This afternoon, after the examination of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the financing of parties, the Assembly will proceed to the examination of the bill concerning the introduction of the crime of torture in the penal code. Tomorrow morning, at 10 o'clock, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will make an information on the story of the two rifles of Marina, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. Group representatives will be able to speak for ten minutes each. The agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting also includes an illustration of the motions on the MUOS satellite telecommunications system. At the question time meeting tomorrow afternoon at 4 p.m., the Minister for European Affairs will answer questions about the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European coordination of economic reform and growth policies. Next week the Assembly will return to meet again from the afternoon of Monday 17 February for the examination of the decree-law on the reduction of the prison population. The decree-laws with financial provisions for local authorities, infrastructure and disasters will also be discussed; Italy's Destination Plan will be discussed; international missions will be extended. To this end, voting will take place until Friday 21 February. The calendar of the week from 25 to 27 February provides, in addition to the possible follow-up of the decree-law extending international missions, the decree-law on the automatic salaries of school staff, the possible follow-up of the bill on the crime of torture, the motions on the activity of oil research in the Adriatic Sea; the bill on the ineligibility and incompatibility of magistrates and judges ceased from political offices, as well as the motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network. During the afternoon session on Thursday 27 February, the question time will take place with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Finally, the Conference of Leaders agreed unanimously to refer the bill on the crime of negation to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable of work. [[Wednesday, February 12 pom. h. 16-20,30 - Following bill n. 1213 - Decree-Law n. 149, party financing (Scade 26 February) - Draft law n. 10 and related - Introduction of the crime of torture in the penal code Thursday 13 February ant. h. 10 - Information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the story of the two rifles of Marina Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone - Motions on the satellite telecommunications system MUOS (illustration) Thursday 13 " pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for European Affairs on: - Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union - European coordination of economic reform and growth policies]] Amendments to draft law No 1288 (Law No 146, reduction in prison population) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 14 February. [[Monday 17 February pom. h. 17-20,30 - Drawing of law n. 1288 - Decree-Law n. 146, reduction of prison population (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 21 febbraio) - Drawing of law n. 1215 - Decree-Law n. 151, financial provisions local authorities, infrastructures, calamities (Scade il 28 febbraio) - Drawing of law n. 1299 - Decree-Law n. 145, plan "Destination Italy" (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 21 febbraio) - Drawing of law n. 1248 - Decree-Law n. 2, extension of international missions (Scade il 17 marzo) Tuesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 Tuesday 18 " pom. h. 16-20,30 Wednesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 Wednesday 19 " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 20 " ant. h. 9,30 Friday 21 " ant. h. 9.30 a.m. (if necessary)]] Amendments to draft law No 1299 (Decree-Law No 145, "Destination Italy" plan) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 17 February. [[Tuesday, February 25 pom. h. 16-20,30 - Possible follow-up of bill n. 1248 - Decree-Law n. 2, extension of international missions (Scade on 17 March) - Drawing of law n. 1254 - Decree-Law n. 3, personal wage automation of the school (Scade on 24 March) - Possible follow-up of bill n. 10 and related - Introduction of the crime of torture in the penal code - Motions on oil research activity in the Adriatic Sea - Drawing of law n. 116 and related - Ineligibility and incompatibility of the magistrates and magistrates ceased from political offices - Discussion of motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 Wednesday 26 " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 February pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy]] Amendments to the draft law No 1254 (Decree-Law No 3, extension of the school's personal salary automation) and No 116 and related (Ineligibility and incompatibility of magistrates and provisions on judges who have ceased to hold political office) must be submitted by 1 p.m. on Monday 24 February. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1213 (Decree-Law No 149, party financing) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1288 (Decree-Law No 146, reduction in prison population) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 05' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 38' NCD 29' LN-Aut 22' Mixed 22' PI 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1215 (Decree-Law No 151, financial provisions local authorities, infrastructure, disasters) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1299 (Decree-Law No 145, "Destination Italy" plan) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 05' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 38' NCD 29' LN-Aut 22' Mixed 22' PI 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1248 (Decree-Law No 2, extension of international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 05' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 38' NCD 29' LN-Aut 22' Mixed 22' PI 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1254 (Decree-Law No 3, extension of the school's personal salary automation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 05' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 38' NCD 29' LN-Aut 22' Mixed 22' PI 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u8	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to raise two issues. First of all, the fact that you have set the examination of the decree-law so-called empty prisons for next Monday's session: which, given the times of discussion of the decree-law and mainly the time of expiration for the conversion of the decree-law, is tantamount to saying that the Senate, as usual, must do nothing but stamp the text that comes from the House. I would like to point out to everyone that the bill was presented on 23 December 2013 and that it was sent to the Senate a few days ago, less than two weeks after the deadline for conversion. Well, I had allowed myself to represent the President of the Senate as there was a need for a timetable for this decree-law for the day of tomorrow, also because during the general discussion there had been a number of criticisms of the text coming from the House by various members of the Commission; consequently, there had been a willingness to make minor changes. The anticipation of the discussion of this decree-law on the day of tomorrow would have made it easy to conclude the examination of the decree-law on Monday and, as has often been the case in the past, Mr President, the shuttle with the Chamber of Deputies would have allowed the House to launch the text with those few amendments that had possibly been made. I now come to the House with a different problem, which is also shared by the members of the Commission on justice who have spoken on the specific point. In the opinion of those who speak to you, and in the opinion of several members of the Justice Commission, the decree-law that comes to us from the Chamber is spoiled by inconstitutionality with reference to article 2, paragraph 1-b. Article this which, contrary to the provisions of the juvenile procedure, places an exception on the determination of the penalty for the purpose of the issue of the protective custody; the consequence is that the minors who are, by hypothesis, accused of the crime referred to in article 73, paragraph 5, of the single text in the matter of drugs, that is, of the activities of transfer, small dealing and anything else, because of a modification that has been made by the Chamber with reference to the text of the decree-law, can be reached by protective custody, because for this specific hypothesis of crime cannot be calculated the minor of the minor age, which instead can be calculated for all the other crimes committed by minors. It is obvious that there is an inequality, that there is a disparity in treatment, but it is also clear that those criteria of reasonableness repeatedly established by the Constitutional Court do not exist in order to justify treatment of a different nature, in the light of Article 3 of the Constitution. Then why am I making this speech? I understand the needs of the government, even if probably the government, who knows the dynamics of parliament, if it had ever intended to present that decree-law not on December 23 but ten days before or after the Christmas break would have allowed the Senate, at second reading (bicameralism seems to be still perfect), to play its role to the end. I understand that from the Government and the majority who support it there is the need to bring home this decree-law in the text dismissed by the House; but I tell you that members of different political groups of the Commission Justice, and not all of opposition, agree on the unconstitutionality of this rule. I therefore ask the House why we cannot anticipate the timing of this decree-law in order to remedy this - from our point of view - obvious inconstitutionality, so as to postpone next Monday the decree-law to the House, which will see it in the single amendment on which there is convergence on the part of all the Groups, except, of course, the legitimate political action of all the other Groups aimed at trying to change the decree-law differently. Nor, Mr President, can there be any problem with the possible obstructionist attitude of certain groups, because she knows very well how the Senate Rules provide for mechanisms to remedy this possibility. I would like to make a second point, after listening to the final part of the deliberations of the Conference of Leaders. I am referring to the return to the Commission of the bill on negationism. Mr President, this measure, after being dismissed by the Justice Commission, was reassigned to it the next day by the President of the Senate in the deliberating session, because on the point there was obviously agreement by all the Groups; this allocation in the deliberating session was subsequently lost, as required by the Rules of Procedure, to the request of some senators. I do not understand the reasons why this measure is returned to the Commission. If the boatos are equivalent to reality, I understand that the Commission should carry out hearings and, therefore, open up within it a debate of a cultural, historical and philosophical nature and whatever else, whose contours - I must say quite frankly - are sufficiently known to the Commission itself. In any case, this is the decision of the Conference of Leaders, but I would like to make it very clear to the House. If it is a question of holding hearings and, if necessary, reopening the amendment phase for certain amendments to the text, I tell the House with great tranquility that the Commission is currently engaged in the examination of several and many measures concerning protective custody, homophobia and the whole civil sector between regulation of de facto couples, civil unions and so on, as well as a cognitive investigation of the prison system. Therefore, Mr President, these hearings, if necessary, will be carried out by the Commission in due course by the time and in the manner set by its Bureau, with reference to the programming and working priorities within the Commission itself. This means that no one can imagine that the text can return to the Chamber after fifteen days.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u11	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the issues raised in this House by the President of the Commission. The second part of his reflection finds us in agreement. President Palma takes into account a work done and a number of measures which have been designed, discussed and drawn up in the Commission and which are now, as it were, mature to come to the House and be approved. As you have all heard, these are very interesting, vital and current topics, on which, in some cases, we have historical delays that can no longer be tolerated by Italian society. For some measures we are in a position to respond quickly and quickly to open questions on the subject of justice in our country. The first question that the President raised concerns the amendment of the decree-law emptying prisons, which we should approve quickly, because I remind the House that it expires on 21 February, and it is a deadline that is close to parliamentary work and that, in particular - excuse me - is on the sidelines of the Senate. The Senate has the rule of examining the decree-laws over a period of thirty days, so that they can be handed over to the House by giving the other branch of Parliament the opportunity to make an independent assessment and possibly be able to correct the text, so that the third reading is not effectively prevented by an impossible race against time. So it is not for the House, and in the Senate we have often had to emphasize this fact, but aware that in some cases we too have used more time than expected. In essence, we must avoid, as I said to several senators today, creating a bicameralism spiteful in the last section of this reflection that we are carrying out in our country on the perfect bicameralism and how we intend to overcome it. Colleagues, on the story of the alleged inconstitutionality feared by the President, which would motivate the need for a change to be made here in the Senate, almost an objective change, we have questioned ourselves in these hours making a deepening. I must tell you that the matter is open, because there is another assessment on our part. Colleagues, without falling into technicalities that risk to bore the Assembly and which fall specifically within the competence of the Commission Justice, on the case of minors we refer to article 2, paragraph 1-b, of the decree-law, which concerns the protective measures other than the prison for the accused minor, which are provided for in article 19 et seq. of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 448 of 1998, and are all different from the protective custody. The amendment approved by the Chamber included an autonomous case concerning the so-called small deal, punished up to a maximum of five years, and the judge is allowed to apply, if he considers, the measure of placement in the minor's community. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, because the amendment adopted to the House does not in any way concern the detention of the minor in prison, governed by Article 23 of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic No 448 of 1998, and that, among other things - this is a point on which I would like the utmost attention - can only be applied for non-polluting crimes for which life imprisonment or imprisonment is provided for not less than nine years. So it can be considered the case of the relationship of detention and custody of the child with the prison: I repeat, it can be applied only in cases not manslaughter and for which life imprisonment or imprisonment penalty is provided for not less than nine years. Therefore, the amendment made to the Chamber does not touch on this aspect, and the question, however problematic and open, of constitutionality, from a deepening that we have made, even in the technical context, does not affect the decree on this point. Therefore the evaluation of the Assembly can also be from this point of view more serene and can access the proposal of calendarization, without it being possible to think that a choice is being made that is going to reward a provision of the House that has a manifest unconstitutionality on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u12	Colleagues, I summarize the proposal of President Palma: it is proposed that the discussion of the decree-law already scheduled by the Conference of the Leaders for Monday be brought forward to tomorrow morning. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Palma. It's not approved. The timetable adopted by the Conference of the Leaders by a majority and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1213. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the amendments relating to the articles of the Decree-Law continued to be examined. Amendment 5,500 remains to be considered, on which I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission. BERGER, secretary. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the additional amendment 5,500, transmitted by the Assembly, relating to the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that does not preclude it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment. DE MONTE, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion. Mr De Camillis, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I'm going back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u16	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I wanted to ask the rapporteur for clarification. The amendment thus reworded does not make it clear whether the sum of EUR 5,000 can also be the sum of so many individual payments, including one euro, or the sum of each paying agent. In my opinion, that should be made clear. I am talking about the sums over 5,000 euros paid by the same person. If the contribution comes from 500 subjects per 10 euros, I do not believe that there should be this obligation to submit the declaration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u19	DE MONTE, rapporteur. The amendment refers to the annual sum received either directly or through committees. It therefore refers to the individual person.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u20	I play the role of interpreter. The question is: if there are 5,000 people contributing to one euro, is each one indicated? DE MONTE, rapporteur. Each person. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I think Senator Zeller's doubt is well founded. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Excuse me, ma'am. In my opinion, after being released in excess of this amount, it should be added for each individual subject. That would be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The text seems quite clear to me. It would be sufficient to replace the "excessive" with "superior" because it is precisely the diction that we find in article 5, paragraph 3, where we read: In the cases referred to in this paragraph, the legal representatives of the parties benefiting from the disbursements shall transmit to the Presidency of the Chamber of Deputies the list of persons who have provided funding or contributions of a higher amount, in the year, to EUR 5,000 (...). We do not understand why it is not possible to resort to the diction used for parties even for the individual elected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u24	Colleagues, there is first of all a connection problem: there is a subject to the singular and an adjective, "excessive" to the plural, which frankly is not understood how it is connected. What do you think, rapporteur, if we wrote down for any amount exceeding the sum of...? So it is clear what it is referred to. DE MONTE, rapporteur. That seems to me to be the understanding of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you agree, Senator De Petris?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u25	I believe that it would suffice to take back the original text, which identifies the same diction used in the text of the decree, in which it is said to be more than 5,000 euros. The definition "for each amount" is good, but not "excessive" is not good, otherwise it means that only the difference exceeding EUR 5,000 must be declared.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u26	The difference shall not be referred to when it is said to be "for any excess amount'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But we do not use the word "excessive" then: we use the word "superior." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, for each amount greater than the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the I agree with the wording proposed by Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u28	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,500 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u31	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u32	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5,500 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u34	You have the right to do so. [[Brusio]] I call on colleagues who wish to move away from this House to do so quickly. I address the entire group in the left hemicycle, right under Senator Maran: I understand that there are extensive government discussions going on, but they can also be held in the Garibaldi Room. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of the measure. The text in the vote provides, firstly, for the gradual abolition of public funding directed at parties, as intended and implemented from the 1970s to the present day. Secondly, instead of direct public contributions, it is foreshadowed that the preferential financing of parties is the work of private individuals. There is also a third element that connotes the establishment of the measure: the intention to condition this facilitation to respect the requirements of transparency and democracy within the parties. We know that some form of public funding of politics exists in every democracy and that funding feeds the mechanics of a democracy. We also know that poor funding - i.e. designed in such a way as not to allow the policy to provide the statements it is required to give, as has been the case in Italian experience - has reduced and reduces policy as an emblem of self-referentiality, has alienated and alienated the elected from the electorate and has become the greatest obstacle to the enlargement of participation and to the achievement of the objectives proper to the democratic system. Hence the decision to abolish public funding and therefore to tackle the problem of finding the necessary funds in society. Liberal disbursements are instruments that most of the systems know and are levers to push parties to stay in society, encouraging them to seek economic support among private individuals, as a symbol and signal of active participation in the political ideas they support. In this context, the controls, transparency and dissemination of funding received, as well as the pre-determination of both the providers and the levels of funding that can be received, represent the lintels of democracy, not to mention that an effective system of policy financing is structurally linked to a legislative discipline that regulates political parties. These are the guidelines that we have been inspired by during the examination of the text and which are inspired by our amendments, also stressing the implications and risks of the choice we are making. However, we believe that the relationship between parties and democracy must change radically from that of the past, which has fallen into crisis, and that its reconstruction in a substantially equal form is not workable or even desirable. Going back is not an option for another fundamental reason: there is a very serious problem of efficiency and reliability of the institutional political system; politics does not decide, it represents little and bad and does not meet the minimum requirements of public ethics. In all advanced industrial societies people have become more autonomous and challenge the elites, but the difficulties of Italians (low wages, high unemployment and increasing inequality) risk turning economic concerns into resentment. From distrust to anger the step is short and, before difficulties and resentment grow further, Italy must opt for reforms. We must offer a change both in politics and in the way we do politics, starting with the costs: but this is not just about this, it is about the legitimacy of politics. The problem that many prefer to remove is that the entire political class and even politics as activities are completely delegitimized in the eyes of the citizens. The costs are, of course, important, but the indignation of public opinion about this aspect is indeed the spy of a wider problem: the prevailing feeling is that politicians are useless, do not do their job and think only to get rich. At the origin there are the real loss of the role of national politics in the conditions of globalization and the search for a scapegoat for the dramatic state of decline in which Italy is located. Remember what Manzoni wrote: "Hang them!" Hang them!; and grain will come out from all sides. However, there is also an objective decline in the quality of the political class, mainly due to the political and cultural stagnation of these years. We must therefore take advantage of the moment - and the economic crisis is an additional reason, if anything, to achieve those constitutional and institutional changes that have been necessary for a very long time, of which financing is only a component. The real costs of politics, however, are primarily those of transition, i.e. slowing down, at best (and bribes, at worst), due to the widespread presence of political mediations and the constant and inexorable growth of public interposition, through the activity of the State, the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities. Many millions of Italians are now heavily dependent on the discretionary decisions of civil servants, executives and public administrators. This is the real cost that politics imposes on the country. This is the sea that, first of all, we should try to dry up; this is the point on which we must intervene decisively. It is a question of reducing the spaces of political management throughout society, in order to leave politics to its true and nobler function. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have called for testing the relocation contract and have stressed the unfairness of the use of the Integration Fund. If we want to move on, we need to experiment and practice the necessary functional link between passive policies and active labour policies; if anything, we use resources to extend the treatment of unemployment. That is why we have focused on the issue of foundations that receive funding from public companies and companies on which the beneficiaries (the political personalities at their top) have exercised control functions. We are impressed, but also surprised, by the conservative attitude of the Democratic Party. Let's get this straight. If public funding for parties is to be maintained, it is to be said that it exists in all modern democracies. But we are strongly opposed to the continuation of old habits and practices by other means. The great Italian think tanks, the Italian thinkers, were first a state deal (from SVIMEZ to the Bank of Italy), then a path undertaken by some pioneers (from the Mill to the IAI), finally a party deal (from the Sturzo Institute to the Gramsci Foundation). For Americans many of them shouldn't even be called think tanks, because, as always, it's difficult to replicate an Anglo-Saxon model. The framework is that of a system of taxation not comparable to the Italian one; the political debate in our case is much less structured; there is the lack of an articulated system of revolving doors between institutions and research centres. Today in Italy the season of personal think tank has opened, the new model of adviser of the prince (from Italianieuropei to Farefuture). This happened in conjunction with the process of personalization of politics (not only in Italy) and organized destructuring of political parties: the think tanks linked to political leaders born after 1989 are eleven in Italy. Are we just gonna pretend? If someone has to own politicians, then it is worthwhile that it is the Italian people, especially in a context in which we risk that some public companies become the main funders of these thinking or party currents, at whose summit sit the same personalities that should have or should have controlled them. We know that restructuring the political system is not as easy as changing a holed rubber, also because few pieces of Italian society can really be said to be foreign to it, alien to that experience that we have behind us. In the post-war period, the popular parties managed to bind a people who had never known democracy to deeply democratic institutions; then we came from fascism and war and all saw the failures of totalitarianism, and democracy seemed to be the medicine for all evils. The trouble is that today everyone sees the flaws of democracy and many can be tempted by authoritarian or plebiscite solutions. That is why the time has come for a great effort to reform the state, the time has come to change. For this effort, Civic Choice will make its resources available. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups and Senator Bisinella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u38	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, during the general debate we heard the different positions on this sensitive issue (public funding of the parties), and I reflected on the fact that the need for legislation, as it were, is being put forward with greater vigour whenever we are faced with scandals that indignant public opinion, so that perhaps we can easily succumb to the temptation to ride an emotional wave rather than to think with weight about the possible future effects of the total abolition of direct funding to parties. For the truth, Italy is experiencing a season in which it is very easy to indulge in populism and anti-politics. When people suffer economically and politics is not incisive on this front, it is easy for politics itself to be attacked and to show all its fragility. Imagine, then, that scandals about the misuse of public money are going on inside. However, it is also our duty to reject all demagogy and all easy populism and to take the narrow and uncomfortable path of those who choose to have intellectual honesty to say that the abolition of public funding to parties constitutes a major danger to democracy itself. By this I mean that, as soon as direct public funding has completely disappeared, policymaking will inevitably become the prerogative of only the most wealthy parties, which may count among their funders big entrepreneurs, big industrialists, rather than economically weak. Therefore, the bill of conversion of the decree-law abolishing public funding, on which we are preparing to vote, already presents profiles of inequality, in the sense that the equality of conditions for making politics is lacking. We have heard this repeatedly in this House, and I want to reiterate this: the greatest danger that the abolition of public funding can bring with it is that alongside small donors, i.e. sympathizers and militants, they will enter the real investors' scene, who will literally buy the chosen party, thinking of making it the instrument through which to strengthen their interests. So this decree assures only one thing: that the parties can organize themselves, but in an unequal way. Moreover - let us be frank - the decree under consideration seems to be conceived by someone who has never lived as a party, that is, it seems to have no weight of the burdens that must be borne, for example, for the celebration of a congress or for the maintenance of a section on the territory (or at least, this applies to those who think that democratic participation in political life still takes place through a direct relationship with the people, with physical contact, and not simply with a virtual relationship through the Network), not to mention the expected obligation of external certification of the account, activities also extremely expensive and that hardly a party will be able to afford without public contribution. Or should I believe that those who have conceived this rule are so naive that they do not know how much it costs to rely on external certification companies? Democracy only lives if it is guaranteed the freedom to join freely in a party and to contribute democratically to determining national politics: this, at least, is the dictation of Article 49 of the Constitution. But this ability to contribute to the determination of national politics is not an argument that can be detached from that of the economic independence of the parties. Today as yesterday, the economic independence of the parties, their being cut off from private funding, is the bulwark against corruption. I would not like to have to mention once again the Trabucchi scandal of the 1960s, and the oil scandal, which we have heard a great deal about during these days of debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a short memory and we cannot allow a really weak policy today to be overwhelmed by the emotional wave of those who, in the name of the shock aroused by the scandals that have affected institutional groups, ridden this tiger convinced that this will make him profit who knows what electoral consensus. It is worth an example for everyone: in 2012 the sums allocated to public funding were halved, and it was certainly an appreciable fact, but what return, in terms of consensus, did this lead to the parties? There has been no return, ladies and gentlemen! The concept of caste was used, putting everyone inside a single cauldron, inhabited by thieves and delinquents, forgetting that the real caste, capable of driving the widespread feeling of anti-politics is precisely that of the powerful economic lobby. Ladies and gentlemen, ignoring this is tantamount to hiding your head in the sand or, worse, losing your lucidity for fear of attracting the strays of the haters towards politics. In fact, one account is to counter, prosecute and condemn the misuse of public money by imposing strict and stricter rules on the justification of expenditure; another is to allow the survival of a political party, especially if it is territorial or weaker in scope, to be subject exclusively to acts of liberality of private individuals. If these private individuals are also involved in particular interests, the scenario becomes really disturbing. So, ladies and gentlemen, the feeling we feel about this decree of abolition is very uncomfortable, because we see the parties and politics under blackmail: nothing but independence, nothing but good hearts of small donors, but no interference from future financiers! And why did President Letta want to launch this urgent decree, except to respond to a moral blackmail that had spread by now? Why not use other instruments, always available to the Government or other authorities of the State, to put an end to the misconception that was lurking in the context of the financing of parties? We have a report from the Court of Auditors, which relates to the year 2012, which says that only 25% of the money given as funding to the parties had justification; only 25%! The Court of Auditors itself, year by year, tells us where to intervene to drive away the evil. That would have been the way forward, because we are certainly not defending the puppets or, worse, the executors of democracy, who, by their behaviour, disaffection the people from politics and from parties. Instead of striking there in an exemplary way, it was preferred to make a measure that will have no effect or effectiveness. Dear friends, I will meet you in five years' time when we will have to assess what we are doing today: we will not have given a glimmer of solution to this problem. We cannot therefore pretend that this decree will not lead, if approved, to harmful consequences. I would not like to be a Cassandra in this House, but - believe me - I would not like to be in the dislike role of what he might say tomorrow: we had said that. That would be a very low consolation. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I declare, on behalf of the Group of the European Free Alliance, that I am voting against this measure, knowing that it is a service to democracy, pluralism and the right that even those political formations which do not feel like we have to survive. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII Legislature.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u39	I take this opportunity to greet the boys of the family homes of Naples with their educators, who today at lunch were guests of our Senate and to whom our solidarity goes, also for the difficulties they are experiencing under the aspect of economic support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u42	ALBERTINI (PI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party for Italy will vote in favour of this measure, but with so much difficulty, so tangible that a large part of the Group will not be present in this House when the vote is taken. In my brief speech you will find some arguments to justify this varied attitude. We have been waiting for this law since 1993, since the Italian people expressed their views by denying public funding to parties. But, President Calderoli, I address you with sympathy and also with a pinch of irony: he will remember that the late Treasurer Maurizio Balocchi of the League, the sagacissimo Treasurer Balocchi, invented, Cassato the public financing of the parties, the law on electoral refunds, which quadrupled the amount of the sums per vote to be submitted to the parties. He immediately found the consent of all the secretaries of the parties of that time and started a highway path towards a truly exponential enlargement of the costs of politics. Now we could say, paraphrasing the famous phrase name sunt consequentia rerum, that the late Balocchi invented: res sunt consequentia nominum. Since then, there has been a series of actions, not all of them commendable, in using these funds. Public opinion was disgusted and there were scandals, even recent ones, which aggravated this state of affairs, so much so that our government, the government that we support, put this law in its program. It is also for this reason that we are voting for this measure, but we cannot deny that we are not entirely convinced that everything is done with a profile of complete convenience (of institutional correctness perhaps yes) for the respect of democracy, as we would like. Some of the amendments tabled by our representatives have not been carefully evaluated by the Government, and we would have something to say about that. I am referring to Senator Lanzillotta's amendment 5.7 or to Senator Ichino's amendment 16.1 (text 3) which wanted to differentiate safeguards for workers in factories competing with the global market and honest party workers, who certainly do not have an alternative to continuing their activities in parties that may no longer exist, and other such cases that use public money to support activities that do not have a production of wealth and not even a production of democracy. We can, on the other hand, say that some of the speeches proposed have put some emphasis on what would be the real subject of redevelopment in the context of the political parties issue, namely transparency, the statute, internal democracy and what should be the legal personality of the party according to the never implemented Article 49 of the Constitution. Overall, the measure is based on criteria of balance between the demand, which some call demagogic, of the rupture of a scheme and what is a state of fact that must have its own evolution and its own change. But there is no doubt that, leaving the exclusive financing of the parties, in a timeline starting from 2014 and ending up in 2017, the private contribution, but with premium criteria concerning taxation, creates a imbalance between the holders of well-off funding, for which detaxation becomes precious, and instead the extension of this possibility, but always with the tax relief, to low income recipients. I must say that this does not go in the direction of democracy that our Constitution speaks of. I had committed myself to halving my speaking time so as not to occupy too much space in the work of this House. When you have something to say you don't need to talk to yourself, and then I quickly come to the conclusion. Some of us will vote for this measure with this criticalness. However, let us leave a trace of improvement and amendment in the following, because we are not entirely convinced that what we are doing is the best of the good that we also think we are doing, compared to the previous data. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Pizzetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u45	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies and the Italian Socialist Party will vote in favour of this measure as a result of a state of necessity. However, there remain reservations about the use of the urgent decree and about the issues which have a major impact on the exercise of political and democratic action, which derive from a regulation of the financing that does not convince us. We refer in full to the arguments put forward yesterday by Mr Sposetti in his detailed and honest speech in this House. Article 49 of our Constitution would require strict regulation of the forms of internal management of parties, with regard to the transparency of the budgets and, we add, to the certainties of the accounting controls, which should be exercised by the relevant courts in the institutions of the State. I am referring to the Court of Auditors, which should be able to exercise its function through judges drawn annually and who can control the budgets without an influence of power. Perhaps it would have been necessary to consider more calmly the proportion of funding and the distribution between public funding, which is to be abolished, and private financing, which, if provided in such a broad area as that provided for in this decree, could lead to a strong conditioning for the exercise of the democratic function proper to the political forces. Indeed, it is undeniable that total dependence on private financing is certainly unknown to future events. Of course there has been and there is a fair indignation of public opinion, but we believe that the response from the popular public and the policy that has been placed on this push is wrong, superficial and easy to manipulate. There was a need for greater determination in the regulatory action - as I said before - of the internal organisation of parties. The issue is not only economic, but it certainly also comes from how parties reach their decisions and how they build their internal decision-making process, both in terms of policy choices and men's choices. The question of the verification of the reasons for expenditure still leaves in this formulation of the decree-law wide spaces for misunderstandings and elusive interpretations. We believe that public resources should be allocated to political activity, because it cannot be the sole prerogative of those who have private financial resources; at the same time, we say that public resources must be well spent, and certainly in the past there have been many absolutely unjustified and serious behaviors from this point of view. We certainly express a positive opinion regarding some changes introduced in the decree-law, which have accepted the legitimate expectation of the smaller political forces to be able to exercise through private funding (because of this now it is) the democratic political activity in our country, which cannot be entrusted only to the greater political forces, also because the contradictions in the activity of the greater forces are in these obvious hours. If we want to guarantee a true democracy in our country, then we must also allow minorities, particularly those representing regional entities of some importance, to be able to express their views within political activity, to carry out their activities by being able to use the resources that their territory allows to activate. The rapporteur, and I also believe this House, was right then to accept the removal of the 5% percentage that had been indicated as a limit for private funding from the total income that political forces could achieve. In conclusion, we would like to make a fundamental point. On matters of democratic importance, on matters relating to the freedom of political action, we consider the use of the instrument of urgent decree inappropriate. In particular, we believe that for all those issues concerning freedom and democratic exercise the spaces must be guaranteed: surely to the greater forces (but the greater forces guarantee them with the number), but they must also be guaranteed to the smaller forces, because it is not said that minority ideas are not right ideas and that majority ideas are not wrong. The democratic dialectic must be able to accept these positions and must be able to allow the development of the dialectic between these positions. Otherwise, and there are worrying signs from this point of view, including regarding electoral laws, we are moving towards a phase that someone will certainly be able to call democratic, but that I define a phase in which the spaces of democracy are restricted. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u46	Senator Buemi, thank you for the synthesis, as I also thank Senator Albertini, who has given the impression in this sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the work that has been done in this House and also in the Commission has made it possible to improve the text that the House had fired. A number of elements have certainly been included which have reduced the very strong critical aspects that we have seen in this measure. Of course, we thank the President and the members of the Commission and the rapporteur for this. These improvements, however, including the last amendment adopted earlier, cannot change our opinion on the basic approach of the decree, and therefore our vote will be a strongly opposed one. The reasons for this approach were partly expressed during the general discussion. We believe that, in the end, this will be a measure detrimental to the freedom of politics, which Mr Buemi referred to just now, because it introduces, by shifting all the weight on the total dependence of politics on the financing of private individuals, the elements which we consider to be very worrying. The risk we are facing is very serious, and I believe that little thought has been given to this. The risk is, in fact, that politics will increasingly be conditioned by strong interests, by strong lobbying, which will obviously be directed, through their funding, to the majority political forces. It is no coincidence that my Group and I personally, but we are not the only ones, have seen a parallel between the electoral law that is being discussed in the House, which tends to reduce to a few forces of representation, and this bill: the two measures are a combined arrangement which, I repeat, will ultimately make us all less free. When I retraced the stages of the various referendums against the public financing of the parties (the one in 1978, the one in 1993 and the one that was not admitted) I pointed out that politics and the parties had no capacity to grasp the signals that for many years, since the first referendum on public financing of the parties in 1978, came from citizens for a radical change. In fact, not only have they not been able to grasp these signals: we have even seen more and more phenomena not only of corruption, but also of appropriation and distorted use of money deriving from public funding (think of the events related to the parties and regional councils). This has aggravated even more an already serious problem linked to the relationship between citizens and politics, between citizens and elected persons, between citizens and institutions. However, I do not believe that the answer can be to make the policy of those who have more resources or who succeed, because they are stronger, to rake up the financial interests of the lobby. The roofs have been changed in this House. I recall that the provision made by the House did not encourage individual citizens to finance it. We are not saying that it is fine and that it should be an example of financing at Obama, that is the dollar or the two dollars of the individual citizen who all together contribute to the electoral campaigns. Instead, we are talking about the ceilings fixed to the contribution of individuals and companies, among other things very different from each other. We have equated and lowered them, but it does not mean that this model will reward massive funding mainly from companies, businesses and lobbying that have interests. On the other hand, there was no serious law (and perhaps we should have done it together) on the lobbyists. Public funding is prohibited, but it is allowed (by rejecting the amendment on foundations, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta, and the one we have presented) to public companies to circumvent the obstacle by financing foundations and associations, perhaps, adjacent to the parties. Not only that. Nothing is said, for example, about advertising. Someone out of here was very affected by the amendment that we have tabled. Frankly, I do not understand why: perhaps excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. But it is obvious that advertising on party sites or individual party members is another massive form of advertising - this will prove to be the case. This is what happens for large companies like ENI or Finmeccanica. By browsing party magazines, or websites, we can see that, and since we have not regulated this aspect we will also have to expect this form of funding. In the end, therefore, it is a hypocritical decree-law, which says that it wants to cancel the financing but allowing those with strong interests to continue to finance those who carry out those interests, and not the interests of citizens or the common good. This is the big issue that we have allowed ourselves to pose. The issue could be dealt with in a completely different way. We have insisted on the possibility of providing a range of services for parties to ensure equal opportunities. With the measure in the vote there are no equal opportunities for political forces or for those who want to associate, as the Constitution provides, freely to participate in public life. I therefore believe that, in some time, we will have to take action again because we will be aware of what serious deviations such a measure will bring about in political action. With regard to the credibility of the elected, of the institutions and of the political forces, the country is today experiencing a very difficult moment, of great social suffering. The vertical crisis of the credibility of politics is linked to the fact that we do not assume responsibility for concrete measures and initiatives to get the country out of the crisis, to give answers to people's needs, to this great social suffering. From this point of view, we have noted in recent months the total absence of such measures and today we have this hypocritical decree, with which - on the one hand - we pretend to cancel the financing and - on the other hand - we strongly encourage the significant penetration of lobbying into politics, limiting the freedom of political action, citizens and smaller forces, which are perhaps those that will be able to make their contribution to the common good uninterestedly. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u52	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the North and Autonomous League will vote in favour of the measure concerning the abolition of public funding for parties. Allow me to make some general comments, without going too far in the substance and detail of the technical provisions. For a long time there has been a debate in the country, within civil society, on the question of the financing of politics, and with increasing interest. There is no doubt that there is a need to intervene on the discipline of public funding for parties, with regard to which, especially in the last period, there have been numerous disputes, right, raised by citizens. It cannot be denied that the repealing referendum of the then existing law on public funding to parties in April 1993 had seen as much as 90.3% of the votes cast by citizens in favour of the repeal of this system, in a climate of mistrust following the scandal in Tangentopoli. However, the clear popular decision of 1993 was then disregarded by Parliament which, even after the repeal of the articles of the 1974 Act, reintroduced in 1996 the mechanism of public financing under the name of electoral refunds. In view of the widespread disaffection for politics in public opinion, it has made and is still necessary to overcome the current discipline of policy financing, through choices that mark a decided discontinuity. We are in favour of this, but we want to draw attention to a number of issues. The international economic situation of recent times has also invested our country, imposing on governments that have succeeded on the one hand a policy aimed at reducing costs, aimed at preserving the accounts and, on the other hand, a programming of medium and long-term interventions aimed at starting targeted investments to get the country out of the crisis, and in the most painless way possible for citizens. This scenario of crisis has been accompanied by an evident intensification of the misconception of some politicians and businessmen, prone to corruption and collusion, who have fed public opinion a disaffection towards politics, which now lives a delegitimation. A widespread feeling of distrust towards the institutions, the legislator and the administrators has been generated in many citizens. Often, when dealing with the issue of the costs of politics, one is inclined to a qualunquistic generalization, unable to identify, in a broad and truly reformer way, long-term solutions, capable of radically changing the country system. These are necessary premises, ladies and gentlemen, in order to frame the issue in a way that must not be ideological and preliminary, but such as to make it possible to see a concrete solution of limiting the costs of politics, of contrasting with the misconception of certain politicians. A solution that is accompanied by a profound reform action aimed at modifying the current axis of the country system. I want to stress this: the North League has always argued that it is right, improcrastinable and necessary to repeal the rules of public funding to the parties, but facing the reform seriously, without demagogy and hypocrisy. We have also demonstrated in fact our political coherence, which I claim, whenever we have been called upon to express this position with our parliamentary vote. I would remind you that in the last parliamentary term we presented first several legislative proposals aimed at amending the legislation providing for public funding to parties. In the last parliamentary term, we have also called for our proposals to block the instalments of funding to the electoral refund parties, and for these economic resources to be allocated to funds to support firms in difficulty, small and medium-sized enterprises and also to the territories affected by seismic events. This is unlike other parties that today are tearing their clothes in the demagogic attempt to pursue a popular consensus, which always seems a little irrecoverable, and which assert in certain words will, but then, when it is necessary to demonstrate by voting their coherence, they always end up disappointing their voters and citizens. We are convinced that we need a true reform of the country system, that overcomes the perfect bicameralism, that leads to a reduction of the costs of politics and a reduction of the number of parliamentarians, and that in a concrete way implement that reform that the citizens expect: first, fiscal federalism, a federalist reform of the current constitutional order, that finally gives the institutions a fair balance that can be summarized in that I see, I pay, vote that would really give a concrete response and a verification in the hands of the citizens. As a North League, we believe that if we tackle the issue of the costs of politics and the necessary instruments that must be put in place in order to reverse the negative trend of the history of this Republic, we cannot forget the constitutional reforms, the fiscal reform in a federalist perspective of the country's change. I would also like to draw attention to the importance of one aspect: Article 49 of our Constitution solemnly states that all citizens must be able to contribute freely, by associating themselves in parties and democratically, to the public life of the country. The public funding of the parties had arisen with the aim of giving free and democratic access, thus respecting the true democratic representation, to the citizens and to any party and movement to place themselves in the scenario of public life, and not leave this only in the possibilities of the richest and those with the most means. Then the financing system, we have just said, has distorted and has created a system of misconceptions, demonstrating that it cannot be seriously supported and maintained. It's a system that failed and revealed its twists. What has happened has led to an attack, often dictated by demagogy in the last period, on politics and institutions. Certainly there is disaffection and discouragement on the part of the citizens, and the system must be corrected precisely in order to give free democratic representation to the citizens and give them a real tool for those who then go to represent them in the institutions. That is why we in the last parliamentary term, with the measures I have mentioned, have immediately acted in a concrete way, without flagging it. And we have done so also in the Regions that we are ruling: I remember that the Veneto and Lombardy Regions have applied immediately in this legislature a real reduction of the costs of maintaining Junta and Council, they have reduced the number of blue cars, they have drastically cut the compensations, the vitalitys and all the compensations. This means how important it is for us to return to a certain moralized form of public life. We are also very much in favour and in agreement (and in this respect the measure under consideration is quite in line) with greater transparency and publicity in the accounts of public resources. However, I would like to stress one important point for us. The overcoming of public funding and these forms of publicity and transparency reward mainly parties, such as the North League, strongly rooted in the territory, the real and real parties, the parties that are, like us, among the people and that collect from the people the consent asking in a free and transparent way for a contribution to the citizens. I would remind you that this overcoming of public funding will mean that from now on, when the reform comes into effect, parties and movements will be financed with private donations from their members and with the consent of the people. This system therefore rewards a true and rooted party, not the plastic, facade parties, not the parties that live closed in the Palaces. That is why we are in favour. Attention, however: all who receive money or public resources should also be called upon to report. The attention must not be paid today, as a result of this form of attack on the politics to which we are witnessing, only on political parties and movements, but should be placed on all those who receive public resources. This is important to us, and that is why we shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Monte.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u55	AUGELLO (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Right Centre has entered the Commission and then entered the House with very clear ideas on public funding. Our point of view is that we have to cut with the past and we have to open a new phase in which every citizen freely, through the instrument of 2 per thousand, can decide year by year which party to support, legitimately changing the idea the following year if that party has disappointed him. We had this idea, and we have kept it as a guiding thread in the debate in the Commission, not because we are missing some excellent and wonderfully supported topics in the debate in this House and in the Commission by some of our colleagues who appreciate it very much (I quote Mr Sposetti, who is basically a piece of modernity just older than I am), but because these arguments unfortunately clash in a very dramatic way with the historical moment we are going through. Colleagues, it is not only the trivial point of the fatigue of public opinion after a series of episodes that frankly in Europe that also grants public funding have never been seen or even imagined. What happened with some treasurers and in some Italian regions obviously made the argument that public funding is a guarantee and protection for the autonomy of the parties terribly fragile. These arguments also clash with the repeated will of the main political forces to close this piece of legislation not only for scandals but for the need to give a sign of change. In the Middle Ages, the Jesuits - and before them the monks - told the clerics that they were a bit lively "Nisi caste," "saltem cautete" (cautious psaltem): if you cannot live chastely, at least try to be cautious. Prudence would probably have led to choose between two possible solutions, both sustainable: the first is the path of the legal recognition of the parties and the maintenance of a minimum of public funding, within a controlled and transparent mechanism to be proposed as a real turning point, legitimately defending the right of the parties to have a public financing; the second is to abandon this first possibility in order to try what we propose today as a New Right Center and which appears within this decree as a final landing place after the so-called décalage. All that's in the way, fellow senators, is confusion. Everything in between makes the political message lose its authenticity. The leader of the then People of Freedom, Silvio Berlusconi, and on the other side Epifani first and Renzi then, I no longer know how many times they have announced their will to abandon the road of public financing. Once this announcement has been given, you understand well that to get out of the House a text that fixes in three comfortable annual installments the disengagement from this mechanism has left the suspicion in the population - which unfortunately is now rather warned compared to some tricks already adopted in the past - that this is not a true reform. We risk telling for the umpteenth time something that will not happen. That is why, in the Commission and then in this House, we have unnecessarily tried to put the effects of the measures into effect immediately, without prejudice to the reasons of the workers. We have voted with conviction on the amendments (and, in particular, the amendment tabled by Senator Sposetti) that accompany the workers of the parties towards the exit, where there will be restructuring of staff; but, without prejudice to those rights, it was necessary - and we have reiterated this - to break the spell and give strength and credibility to this decree. We have not succeeded, but we would not be honest to the full if we did not recognize - and that is why we will ultimately vote in favour of this measure - that the Senate has achieved important results. I quote a few of them, which are the result of amendments, such as the amendment shared by the Commission, first, and then by the whole of the House, tabled by the New Right Centre, which took away the odious privilege (I do not know, in fact, how much "cubes" in terms of revenue, but the idea is really hateful) of assimilating the seats of the parties, bought with the money of public funding, to the places of worship. That's a very extravagant idea. It is true that Carl Schmitt taught us that there is a link between ideologies and religious wars, but even he would never have imagined that a party seat could be fiscally similar to a church. We have all, together, with our own and other shared amendments, removed from the table the other extravagant idea of giving facilities to make party schools. We worked on the limits on the amount of payments. The law, therefore, has been profoundly transformed; but above all - and I want to acknowledge it precisely the forces that would have benefited most from it (I speak, therefore, of the colleagues of the Democratic Party, but also of the colleagues of Forza Italia) - this decree comes out of here with an important renunciation, which has been "physicalized" by the withdrawal of an amendment that had been legitimately presented by Senator Pagliari because due to a mistake in the Chamber they did not realize that the coverage of 136,5 million euros in three years of residual financing could not be fully activated since the lack of the provisions of law to activate the refunds for the regional elections, which still have to be held, starting from 2014, and for the European elections. The fact that we have all reached the compromise that we have not retabled that amendment, thus cutting off more than a third the actual 'tirage' of the available coverage (which we have not even adequately told outside this House), was another element that led us to believe, at the end of this debate, on which we have been very committed, that the New Right Centre can certainly vote for this new version of the law. It remains a regret, that in these hours it takes a little 'in all our political action and that is what I was trying to sum up at the beginning of my speech. The regret is that we think that an important part of our political class (especially those at the top in these hours are discussing the destinies of the Government and the country) risks not listening to our invitation to recover concreteness and authenticity. That is our real concern. To say things and to make others is the antechamber of all the problems that we then dump on anti-politics and aggressiveness against the institutions: the political class has a deficit, a debt of credibility that has been built with its own hands; the forces of anti-politics have not built it. If we are to fill this deficit, we must begin to enter into the order of ideas that when we say one thing we must do exactly what we have said. If we move from this indicator I have the vague feeling that we will have awakened even worse than those we have suffered under certain circumstances, not only electoral, during the last period of political life of the country. For these reasons and despite these difficulties, the New Centre will in any case, even though it has defended its amendments in this House until the last minute, vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u58	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to us from outside, do you know how many companies closed in Italy in 2013? I'll tell you, 14,000. And do you know how much the unemployment rate has increased? I'm telling you, by almost two percentage points compared to 2012, and we've gone from 11.1 to 12.7 percent. And again, do you know how many young Italians - most of whom are graduates - emigrate each year to look for better life opportunities abroad? 50,000, and increased by 9 percent compared to 2012. Finally, the saddest figure: 119 Italian citizens committed suicide in 2013 for economic reasons and 45% of them were entrepreneurs. All this perhaps escapes Letta, who a few days ago, while visiting the Arab Emirates, said: Italy has come out of the crisis with its own strength without asking anyone for anything. We did not ask for a euro from Europe. In fact it's true: you asked all the Italians and only the Italians! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So much so that we pay as much as 54% of taxes and we are top in Europe for tax pressure. On the other hand, these words of Letta remind us of someone else's words, which I quote: It seems to me that there is no strong crisis in Italy. Life in Italy is the life of a wealthy country. The consumption has not decreased, the restaurants are full, it is difficult to book a place on the aircraft. You will all remember these: these are the phrases - sadly known - spoken by the Knight on 4 November 2011 in Cannes. A few days later the Monti Government, famous for the spending review against Italian citizens, took over. There are two things, gentlemen: either you don't understand, or pretend you don't understand! Or you don't understand, because from the closed door of your golden palaces, your villas and your yachts you have completely lost the connection with the reality that every day Italians have to face, or pretend, because it suits you: yes, honestly, I and we have the doubt that it suits you to be a merchant's ear, because so you can quietly continue to do your dirty business. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] You can continue to spend €14.3 billion on the F-35...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u59	Senator Santangelo, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). ...to hand over EUR 7.5 billion to banks and to tolerate 88 billion tax evasion by slot machine dealers (later reduced to 2.5 billion, finally to 700 million), clear evidence that lobbying in this Parliament works, and works well. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). How dare you? Mr Albano (PD). Stop it! SANTANGELO (M5S). Moreover, the European Union has presented a clear accusation against corruption in Italy: the direct costs of corruption annually amount to EUR 60 billion, half of the total amount of the European Union as a whole. [[Mima the gesture of money. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). You don't do that thing there, you understand? You do it to your sister! Mr. President, did you see that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, Senator Santangelo, provided he does not exceed, has the absolute right to carry out his intervention. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I intend to make full use of the time available to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, continue. SANTANGELO (M5S). The warnings of the European Union are only heard if they are functional to the Government and if they allow some fine decree of urgency, such as empty prisons. But let's go back to our subject: public funding for parties. Since 1974 (the year in which funding was introduced to parties), the contribution has taken different names: "State contribution to the financing of political parties" "Discipline of electoral campaigns for election to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic" Rules for the regulation of voluntary contributions to political movements or parties (i) Rules on reimbursement (...) (ii) Rules on reimbursement (...) (iii) Rules on reimbursement (...) (iv) •Provisions on electoral refunds •Provisions on electoral refunds •Provisions on electoral refunds •Provisions on electoral refunds •Provisions Finally, we now come to the seventh version: Abolition of direct public funding, provisions for the transparency and democracy of parties and rules for voluntary contributions and indirect contributions to them. In short, you have presented it to us in a thousand different clothes, but the substance has never changed: it is always the money of the Italian citizens, gone to your pockets and the coffers of the parties that have been feeding you for decades! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A referendum is the greatest expression of the people's will, and in 1993 the Italian people made themselves clear: they said no to public funding for parties. So, the various laws that have followed are unconstitutional. But on the other hand, in these ten months you have also taught us that in lawlessness and inconstitutionality you guys are slaving us. [[Comments from the PD Group]] One: Parliament is illegitimate because it is a child...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u61	Senator Santangelo, you're talking about a law. Colleagues are different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u62	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if you interrupt me, then we will recover the time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When I think I have to interrupt you, I interrupt you, Senator Santangelo, there are no saints. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes. It makes me recover my time, kindly. CARDINALI (PD). But who do you think you are? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is in my availability, this. SANTANGELO (M5S). May I, Mr. President? [[Comments from the PD Group]] One: this Parliament is illegitimate because it is the son of Porcellum. Two: this government is illegitimate because it is never voted by Italian citizens. Three: the President of the Republic is illegitimate because he is chosen by illegitimate parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Four: the decree of urgency, endorsed by the President of the Republic, is illegitimate and unconstitutional because it deprives the two Chambers of legislative power. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Five: The proposed electoral law born of two condemned is illegitimate and not representative of the will of voters. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u63	Senator Santangelo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u64	I give you two minutes to finish by respecting the subject we are talking about. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Cricket was convicted of manslaughter! [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). But it is not in Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, it doesn't seem like much of a war where you argue about convictions. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like those two minutes without interruption, as everyone is entitled to do, provided you say yes. However, I will leave my speech to the record, so that colleagues can, rather than scream, Read it again. With constructive work, we have seen fit to go to the Commission and come here too, ladies and gentlemen, to you by tabling three simple simple amendments, nothing exceptional, something that the 5 Star Movement has done since the first day it entered Parliament. One: the total abolition of public funding to the parties immediately; two: the full repayment of the sums received since 1997 to date, with the possibility for the judiciary to intervene through seizure of assets and liquidity of the parties; three: the return of the amounts received not reported and therefore not actually spent (this is what we do to say). Three simple amendments that would have brought EUR 2.5 billion into the state's coffers immediately. Don't say we don't talk. We certainly talk, but in the offices, and not in via del Nazareno as someone else does. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We first asked Bersani, then Letta, and finally Renzi to give up the electoral refunds. What was the result? A genetic mutation of public funding to parties. [[Comments from the PD Group]] A trick! The reconstruction of virginity! Now try to imagine the outstanding headlines of the newspapers: The PD returns the reimbursements of the last round of elections: EUR 45.8 million! From PdL 38 million euros go back to the coffers of the State! Civic Choice renounces 15 million electoral refunds! Instead, as you well know, none of this happened, and only the 5 Star Movement has renounced the money of the Italians! And the only title Italians could read, with difficulty... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Santangelo's grudging gesture, which hits the support auction. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u65	Thank you, Senator Santangelo, you are authorized to deliver the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u68	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group announces its vote in favour of this measure, and it does so with some discomfort, with some suffering, because it considers the content of this measure to be the minimum necessary for Italian citizens. We hope that the government, or what is left of it, will not want to make this measure a trophy of its battle for so-called reforms, because this battle has never really been fought. If the measure is dismissed in this version, as I said, this must be considered only the beginning of a virtuous process of regulation and transparency. Those who have assessed this text - and I am not referring, of course, only to us, colleagues, but also to the citizens and to a public opinion so stimulated, as we have seen, by some of our colleagues and increasingly attentive (justly attentive) to what is happening in the Palace of Politics - have realised that the decree in question actually establishes a form of voluntary support complex to the parties, which, however, deserves some further consideration and is perhaps still susceptible to some methodological and political objection. Before I go into the details, allow me to broaden the reasoning to the formal data, starting with the strange trend that characterized the life of the decree under consideration. We all know that the starting point was the draft law passed last October in the House of Deputies. We also know that the physiological process that should have followed the measure was stifled by the Government, which took hold of it in a Council of Ministers in December, in disregard of any principle of cooperation between political forces, the various institutional roles and the so pronounced and unfortunately little respected limits on the use of the decree of urgency and - allow me - with a useless and demagogic waste of time. But the shadows, as far as we are concerned, are not exhausted here, and from the form I would like to move to the substance. It is clear to all of us that the costs of the Italian political-burocratic machine have become unsustainable, unjustifiable in the eyes of our most experienced European partners and, above all, tremendously hateful for a society afflicted by the economic crisis and exulted by the chronicles about the misuse of public money that has made a not irrelevant part of the political class. But here we must ask ourselves a question, which, in our opinion, fellow senators, touches the nerve of the measure: what is the meaning of this decree? What are we gonna do? Do we want to cancel all forms of public support because policy costs less, or even does it not cost citizens? But does this reasoning not also affect indirect public financing? Whatever the answer, apart from its contradictions, we cannot hide that the decree we are going to vote on does not offer a truly clear and satisfactory solution. The position of Forza Italia is well known: we are in favour of the abolition of public funding and the enhancement of private financing, in the democratic clarity of transparency and certainty of the rules. As far as we are concerned, this measure should have shown more courage, actually matching the title with the contents. However, apart from its obvious limitations, it sets a point of no return, from which we do not want and in any case we cannot go backwards. In compliance with Article 49 of the Constitution, the decree gives a broader definition of the parties and outlines the way towards their progressive and further democratization. In this direction, the guidelines, which inspired the adoption of the Statute as a key instrument and indispensable - as my colleagues said before - for access to the funds and benefits provided for by this decree, as well as, of course, for the regularity of the contents and procedures of the Statute itself. It is a novelty that institutionalizes the demand for transparency in the life of parties, both in terms of rules and in terms of costs and expenses. But - I said - the decree under consideration presents more than one critical issue above all on the clarity of its objectives. We also heard it a minute ago: those who judge the Republic of the parties as a wreck of the twentieth century will not be satisfied with a package of rules that risk being judged as a device, more or less clever, to guarantee indirect financing, that cancels any proportion between electoral consent and public delivery; that accepts by decree the 2 per thousand on the IRPEF of taxpayers, that, if not correctly pointed out to the taxpayer itself, can induce risks of automatism; but that - fellow senators - cages too heavily the generosity of the private, introducing strict limits to the liberal disbursements of the physical persons, limits from the very little understandable nature, unless they want to recognize in this initiative a product of political tailoring carved on the measures of a great entrepreneur lent to the public thing. If we take the wrong view that the limit on the distribution of private individuals to parties represents an added value, perhaps a moral value (since lately this expression is being abused), as well as transparency, simplification and traceability, then, ladies and gentlemen, we would do sooner and better to pull the plug ourselves, rather than suffer a slow and very little dignified agony. Those who then hate politics in the broad sense - we have also seen this, ladies and gentlemen, and we all heard it a minute ago - because they judge it to be the expression of a caste that is no longer redimable, will also put this decree in the file of the debate on the summary process, for now - and I stress for now - only symbolic, educated towards us, towards all of us. Should we have done better? Definitely. Can we do more? We'll see. Symbolic gestures are precious, never too many, but they must have real effectiveness. The process of reducing costs, the cuts in the redundancy of central and local public authorities, the self-reduction of salaries, the search for greater institutional sobriety are all encouraging signs to Italians and ourselves; but they are not enough alone. We still strongly want to claim to politics a role - let me say this - exemplary in the civil life of our country. In a mature democracy it is necessary to implement the places of confrontation and selection for those who have an authentic vocation to politics. This must be our essential care. Politics is too important to be condemned to a state of childhood, in which the oblique (domestic and international) forces are increasingly bullying, aiming at unconditional addition. Political parties cost, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, and they must find a way to finance themselves. Few or many of the funding available, it will not only be the amount of disbursements or the mechanics of the collection of funds that determine the goodness of our political system. Our unit of measurement, if we want to be credible, must lie in the clarity and external perception of parties or poles that oppose to dispute the consent, supported by free sponsors, visible in their contribution and set in a simple regulatory framework, above all simple. The minimum requirements for the institutional legitimacy of the parties have been laid down, and it is nothing wrong for the electoral citizens to offer them, or to deny them, freely and voluntarily, trust and funds. We were among the first to pronounce without prejudice - here we almost use it as a pornographic word - the word " lobby ", aware of the need to regulate in the sunlight the relationship that has always existed between politics and representations of interests that inner the economic, social and cultural fabric of our country. Many instances are suspicious only if they are poorly enlightened; the representations of interests can and must find a transparent and supervised dimension, establishing with politics a relationship no longer in chiaroscuro, but increasingly clear and virtuous. While the representation of interests in the United States is even a constitutional right, it has only recently established itself in Europe, but it has become more and more convinced, in parallel with the political changes these countries were experiencing. Italy can and must adapt to these models, giving itself a virtuous and modern configuration, making an extra effort, that this decree does not yet make, because it does not face or does not want to bravely face the node of private financing, at the basis of an intrinsically liberal relationship between citizens and politics. It is limited to containing the damage rather than creating a new beginning. The risk we are running, ladies and gentlemen, is to create a weak law, rich in small accountants and arabesques, but lacking a clear vision of the objective; a law motivated also by the need for its public display, the headlines, in an attempt to domesticate the very strong demand for sobriety that is being addressed to us. But be careful not to disregard for this the main question, namely that of efficiency and leadership in politics. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, forza Italia, despite the obvious problems and not without sacrifice - as I anticipated - of many important instances that have remained unheard, has decided not to deny its support for the conversion of the decree. We will vote in favour of a sense of responsibility over a promise made to the country, to which this text responds only in a small part, but above all as an incentive to continue with much greater incisiveness on a path of correct and not demagogic allocation of resources, public or private, that is not only a bureaucratic display of virtue, but an efficient and transparent way to increase with a truly democratic method the participation of citizens in politics. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u69	A representative of students from the secondary school "Giovanni Bovio" in Foggia is present in the Chamber. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u72	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, at the beginning of my speech and before moving on to the explanatory statement of the vote in favour that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will guarantee this measure and the conversion of the decree-law on the financing of parties, I would like to say to Mr Santangelo that he does not expect any response in my speech. The only answer that I can give him and that I can entrust to his sensitivity (if he has it) is that Italy and all of us need a Parliament that operates and truly democratic parties. In this effort we must also read the statements we are making and the measures we are trying to implement on public funding. No provocation, no bad education, no desire to give a show can distract us from the attention to a topic that is very serious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Turning instead to the merit of my speech, I would like to say at once that all the speeches which preceded me, from all the groups, which have retraced also the discussions that there have been, serene, complex and full of uncertainties (because the subject is such as to require proper caution) deserve a great deal of attention. No one here today has a revealed truth, but I think I can say that this provision is a bit of a challenge. We are not voting for a measure that gives us certainties. It is a challenge because, as some colleagues have said about European models, it takes us away from the European models and from a model from which, in fact, since the referendums on public funding, we have been pushed away from the popular vote. I remember that on the 1993 referendum, the one that abolished the direct contribution to the life of political parties (so the articles that this part of the contribution disciplined), voted yes 90% of Italians. The Italians have therefore given a clear indication in this sense, just as they have given it, in this same direction, for the majority system for what concerns the electoral law. We continued, of course, after 1993, to have legislation that was not even unambiguous, because there have been attempts at change, which we have seen, even with regard to changes that have not been successful. What is left, however, is the contribution to electoral spending. But let's face it, let's face it, because it seems that we always have to do something more. It seems that we are not able to tell the Italian citizens what we are doing in Parliament. I want to remind you that in the last parliamentary term - and I say this at the beginning of my speech because it also marks a path - we have dealt with this subject several times, and on at least two occasions we have dealt with it by introducing absolutely important and stringent concepts and rules. The first opportunity was in 2011, when we established the principle that reimbursement is not valid for the entire virtual legislature, but is commensurate with the actual duration of a legislature. And then we dealt with it in 2012, when we cut public funding by half, so much so that today we are talking, as a basic financing, of 91 million euros as a fixed figure, while in the past it was much higher, twice, and by the way it was not fixed, because it was determined on the basis of voters. A path has been started. We are already at a stage in which this path has already been started for political parties, for the real ones, made of men and women who work daily for a party, of real employees, in the flesh, of the employees we have dealt with today, for parties rooted in the territory, who cannot disappear by decree. I say this, and I also said it in the Commission: I have personal doubts that we should go this way, but it is an already marked road, because there are moments in political life when we cannot wait to understand, but we must accept the challenges. We will see in the future if this system works, we will also see who will be there after us if it works and if the parties face the challenge that we are launching today: a challenge that the parties will have to find private sources of funding and they will have to self-determine, because gradually public funding will fail. Again with regard to this issue, it is not strange, but it is already very innovative that even the electoral refunds that will be in the transitional phase (which will last three years) do not concern new elections. Augello used to say this, but I want to talk to him about this: it's not about new elections, it's about the politics and regionals that we leave behind. It is not about the regional elections that will take place, nor about the European elections, and all this is not because someone else has decided it, but because we have decided it. My colleague Mr Pagliari (to whom I must respect as his Head of the Commission) presented that amendment because the officials of the Government, of the Ministry had raised the problem of a discrepancy between the technical report and the legislation, but that text, which was purely technical in nature, was withdrawn and never again presented for a political will of the Democratic Party. Pagliari has not tabled a political amendment, but he is the first, together with all the others, to have joined a current of thought that claims that he will vote for a measure that sets norms for the future, for our will, first and foremost of the Democratic Party, which is the largest party in both the Senate and the House, and that he has decided that he will not use those funds. Therefore, we are already in a phase of disposal, in which reductions are not virtual; also the funds, reduced by 25% for 2014, are further reduced in real terms, because we will have no funding for the European elections. So anyone who talks about a hypocritical measure, even though I sometimes understand the dialectical use of these arguments, has to deal with the fact that it is not hypocrisy, because the reduction of funds will be real as a result. I say that we will have to measure ourselves with our own abilities, because it is a challenge, since the contribution of 2 per thousand is not a certain and established fact; and we wanted roofs to the donations in order not to distort the nature of the parties. Mrs Bisinella, referring to Article 49 of the Constitution, which we would finally do well to implement in this Parliament by regulating all aspects, and not just that of funding, recalled that citizens are free to participate in the life of parties in order to contribute to national politics. But, of course, citizens will have to be urged in this direction, and the much-criticized amendment on postal tariffs also serves that purpose. As a Democratic Party and as a PD Group, we are aware of the difficulties we will have. We are aware of the respect we owe to the employees of the Democratic Party and therefore of the need to protect them, but we are also aware of the difficulties and the need to question ourselves, to ask for these funds, to be more credible, as we are trying to do every day, but also to give the right information, because this is what it is about. We wanted to maintain, rather lower the limit to donations because we want a real party. I am not afraid of the word lobby, but we want transparency, and we want the parties not to belong to anyone: we have lived with business parties, with employers' parties, with parties made up by simple parliamentarians who invent themselves in a single day and everything else. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We need to make a breakthrough from this point of view; we need parties, whose economic life is also affected by multitudes and not a few citizens with large amounts of money. That is the reason for this reduction. That is why we have kept deductions at 26% for natural and legal persons. We need people who want to participate, who spend their money for political life because they do it out of passion, because they believe it. These are the news. Other innovations have been introduced, especially from the point of view of transparency and management control. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the rule we voted on today on the Integration Fund, which had a large majority. I believe from this point of view we are all aware, and we have also demonstrated this with that vote, of the fact that we are also marking, with this vote, the lives of citizens who have so far worked for political parties. Finally, I had already referred to Article 49 of the Constitution. I am not talking about the IMU or anything else, for reasons of synthesis. Of course, we cannot take stock today of this challenge that is only being launched, but I believe that the real challenge that Parliament will not be able to and will not have to lose is to arrive at a true regulation of political parties. I would remind everyone that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have draft laws which also deal with other aspects of party life, and I remind everyone of the need - and I too take it as our duty - to implement Article 49. Public funding is a piece of this story, as the costs of politics are a piece of the truth, but political life is not only made of its costs: it is also made of democracy. And we would like every day to testify to the ability of the parties, individual parliamentarians and individual politicians to speak honestly and transparently, and also to represent the demand for democracy, which must be relaunched today. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u73	I would like to say that the proposal for coordination C1, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain, has been tabled. (The Senators of the M5S Group display signs). Colleagues, drop those signs! I'm begging the assistants to step in. Please proceed, rapporteur. When looking for this, you must avoid giving space.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u74	I read the coordinating proposal: Transform Article 14-a, introduced by Amendment 14.0.4, paragraph 2 of Article 14-a, introduced by Amendment 14.0.1. In Article 17, paragraph 1, replace the words: "of the charges referred to in Articles 12, paragraph 4, and 16" with the following: "of the charges referred to in Articles 12, paragraphs 4 and 6-b, and "16." Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that it was certainly an important debate that took place between yesterday and today on a subject that was also sensitive and with some aspects that were highlighted this morning in the debate on the proposed amendments. I would like to thank all my colleagues, particularly those who have spoken in general debate and in explanation of vote, but also my colleagues from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget Committee. I would like to extend my personal thanks to Senator Alessandro Maran, who followed as rapporteur the first stage of examination in the first Commission, but who also gave me all of his cooperation during the period during which I dealt with it, even in this House. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u75	I would also like to add my thanks to the rapporteur. I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u78	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u79	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law, composed only of Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 149 of 28 December 2013, abolishing direct public funding, provisions for the transparency and democracy of parties and rules for voluntary contribution and indirect contribution to them" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorised to make any further changes in formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. The Senators of the M5S Group exhibit signs bearing the letters "Law scam" and "450 €".]] Withdraw those signs! I'll call all colleagues back. I declare the vote closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u80	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 10, 362, 388, 395, 849 and 874. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Colleagues, nervousness hurts jobs, liver and blood pressure. So I wouldn't recommend it. Sometimes we give bad examples to the students of the institutions who attend our work. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u81	Mr President, with the hope that my speech will not itself be torture, I would like to make a very brief statement on the choices made by the Commission. Meanwhile, it was thought to build this case as a common crime, that is, as an offense that can be committed by anyone abstractly, regardless of a subjective legal qualification (in short, if committed by public officials or public service officers). These latter qualifications are an addictive factor in the conduct. Therefore, having built the crime as a common offence involves a widening of the base of application of the provision in question since it applies to anyone, to every citizen, as to public officials or public service officers, being this same conduct, I repeat, if committed by them, an aggravating circumstance. The Commission then addressed another issue. In the text of the international conventions in which the crime of torture is contemplated, it is frequently constructed as a crime of specific intent. Not only does it limit itself to conduct which is criminally relevant to the public official, but it only punishes itself if it is aimed at obtaining certain statements from the victim of the crime. The Commission has preferred to constitute this case not only as a common offence, but as a criminal offence characterised by the general rule of law. In this case, too, the rapporteur points out one important circumstance: generically speaking, it means a wider application of the crime of torture, because it can be applied regardless of the purpose which the person may have pursued by his conduct. Aggravating circumstances are also foreseen. I have already referred to the aggravating circumstance of being a public official or a public service officer. The other aggravating circumstances concern the achievement of common, serious or serious personal injury to the activities of torture, as well as the achievement of death, in the two different cases of unwanted death, but a consequence of the activity of torture, and of death instead achieved as a result of the author's will. So far I have talked about Article 1, which ends - to be honest - with a very demanding rule, 613-b. The Commission considered that it would punish the incitement to commit torture if committed by the public official or public service officer, but also against a public official or public service officer. With this he introduced an exception to a principle of the penal code, Article 115, according to which the incitement not accepted or the incitement accepted but not followed by the commission of the crime is not punishable. Article 2 shall take account of the usability in the process of any statements obtained as a result of torture conduct. It introduces the principle of the unusability of those statements, unless they are used against the author of the fact, and extends that unusability also to information obtained through torture. Article 3 is also a binding rule, which introduces amendments to the immigration law, No 286 of 1998, and in particular Article 19 thereof, prohibiting expulsions, rejections and extraditations whenever there is reason to believe that, in countries against which these administrative measures should produce their effects, there are systematic violations of human rights and the person can be subjected to torture. Then there is a rule that I believe is only programmatic, Article 4, which consists in the affirmation of the impossibility of the use of diplomatic immunity by diplomatic agents who are investigated or have been convicted in their countries of origin for the murder of torture. I shall conclude by taking into account this problematic nature of Article 4. It is known, in fact, that not only the Vienna Convention, but also the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, as well as of the Court of Cassation, and in particular Articles 10, 11 and 87 of our Constitution, and especially today the first paragraph 117, after the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which confers the nature of the norm interposed to the Treaties, govern the immunities of which diplomatic agents enjoy as immunity covered by constitutional law. The article in question, which I have already taken into account, is problematic, because with an ordinary standard it would result in a ban on constitutionally protected criminal immunity. The standard would only have a programmatic address value at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u82	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u83	Mr President, senators, citizens. Somebody knocks on your door. It's the state. He takes you away from your family, from your 14-year-old son. He's accusing you of growing Indian hemp seedlings in his home garden. He's putting you in jail. He kills you. He kills you twice. This was how it began, in 2007, a post on our blog announcing yet another tragedy. How many times have we followed and supported these battles through our blog? How many names and facts have we heard in these years? And how many mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers have we listened and tried to console? (18.18) (Followed by LIGHTS). Yes, console, because you have always and only limited yourselves to this, because every family member of state victims feels alone, in the face of horrible events and conducts that regularly are covered and shielded in every way, precisely by the institutions that, rather than console, should give the security and satisfaction of living in a state that protects and does everything not to stain his name instead of hiding, strong of the position he occupies. I remind you that in a few days the people responsible for the murder of Federico Aldrovandi will be back in service, and perhaps in the same city where the tragedy occurred. How would you feel as his family members? Today the daily "Unity" reports, on page 13, a comment by the young Rudra, who testifies and must make us reflect on how important our role as legislators is, and how much our role is charged with so much responsibility; responsibility which, in my opinion, must be understood in a double meaning. On the one hand we have a duty to be responsible in our choices, because our decisions and therefore our words will then become ink, black on white, which can sometimes be salvation for some or condemnation for others. That is why the enormous burden of responsibility, if we understand this well, must make us more aware of our choices. I wonder then precisely today what sense of responsibility there can be in an unconstitutional law, a law born even as an amendment to the decree-law on the Olympics of Turin unconstitutional. But next to this vision, there is an Anglo-Saxon meaning, which gives the word, then to the person and therefore to us a fault; a fault for not having been able to predict, control and legislate in time. We know that jurisprudence has its own social and intimate inertia in its very essence but, as leaders of a nation, we also have the task of being more attentive and far-sighted, so as to apply that principle so flagrant of precaution and prediction that is all too often invoked, but very rarely applies. But let's come to the text in question: Article 1 distinguishes those who commit this crime by sanctioning with different penalties, based on the fact that it is a civil person or an official public who commit the fact (in the second case the penalty has increased). This is the first point that must make us think, because it justifies the need for those who work in the service and under certain conditions to be prepared to manage their condition of superiority. And this must be true both in normal conditions and in emergency conditions, in both cases by setting up the torture offence. With the introduction of Article 613-b we recognize a substantial responsibility also for the command to incitement. I believe that in this second case it should be without prejudice to the possibility of maintaining both cases, and therefore establishing a criterion of coexistence, both the instigator and the instigator. In the final analysis, I would also like to focus on the expression 'by means of omissions', which increases the scope of this legislative action more than significantly. So, in this first article of law, we see a legislative structure similar to so many others in its technical neutrality. The words we write and find in the bill can be transformed into names (Aldo, Stefano, Federico, Giuseppe) but also places (Genoa, Rome, Varese, Naples, Perugia) but also circumstances (carcere, school, street, hospital) and many other names, places and circumstances, unfortunately. Mr President, I would like to finish by repeating the need for the awareness that we have in making this decision. The sense of responsibility that leads us to honour the role we play should not be limited only to this necessary, sacred and constitutional provision, but we should use it for many other decisions and debates, for many other measures that we should take to avoid, once and for all, other tears coming down in our country: hunger tears, tears from work, tears from dignity, tears from justice. The 5 Star Movement no longer wants to see those tears: high up the hearts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u86	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to point out that I had called on the Justice Commission to vote on the amendments to Decree-Law No 146, the examination of which was scheduled for next Monday. There are about 500 amendments. I would ask the Presidency to consider stopping the general debate we are holding on this draft law before the time set by the Conference of Leaders, provided that this is possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u87	Now we'll evaluate, depending on the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u89	Mr President, the measure we are considering today has been waiting for a quarter of a century to be approved by Parliament, since Italy, on 10 December 1984, ratified the UN Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The New York Convention called on all signatory States to take specific action on a subject which is primarily concerned with the relationship between the State and the citizen, the possibility of protecting the citizen and the citizen whose body and person are at the disposal of state power by a prevarication of the State, power over an area of untouchable identity, that which concerns fundamental rights and in this case, in particular, the physical and mental integrity of the person. The draft law which the Commission has submitted to the House and which we are going to vote on tomorrow is a text of mediation between different needs. He first reminded the rapporteur of how two different positions were compared in the Commission: one was that of asking for a more direct transposition of the New York Convention by providing for a specific crime of torture intended as prevarication by a public officer or an authority of the State towards the citizen. It is a requirement which, as far as we are concerned, is not only theoretical or abstract, but calls into question a superpower that the Italian national community has seen at work several times, starting from the events of Genoa in 2001 and the Diaz barracks, to the many cases, names and stories that we have heard, of usurping dignity, of violation of the habeas corpus, of the physical integrity of citizens who have ended up in the hands of the State. I would like to mention the names of Federico Aldrovandi, Giuseppe Uva, Stefano Cucchi, Michele Ferrulli, Riccardo Rasman, to mention the most important news cases of citizens killed when they were in the availability of the power of the State. The Commission has confronted itself and decided to build a text which takes account of this need, but also of those who, on the other hand, called for the torture offence to be a common offence, which would affect all situations where a citizen may be in the hands of an illegal power using inhuman and degrading torture or treatment instruments to affect his physical or mental integrity. From this point of view, the text we are debating today, and I hope soon to approve, gives an important response to a felt need. It does so by mediating, as I said before, these different positions, but starting from the objective to recover the historical delay of our country. I remember that almost all European countries have a law on torture, which recognizes torture as a specific crime. Well, this debate, which has already been dealt with, in particular, in the previous parliamentary term, and which has failed to complete and define a text with a majority large enough to approve it, is now in this House with, as the Commission has shown, a significant majority. We therefore hand over this text of law to our country, because cases such as those of Genoa in 2001 or those of Federico Aldrovandi and the other victims of the power of the State that I mentioned earlier no longer have to happen. This, I believe, is an act of great civilization, with which this Parliament gives Italy a measure to support and protect the fundamental rights of people who are in a state of weakness, when they should, instead, be in the state of maximum protection. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u90	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u91	Mr President, colleagues and representative of the Government, there is no such thing as torture in Italy today. This has been mentioned for many years, particularly since 2001, by the well-known events of Bolzano. Of course, not only since then, but in particular from the G8 of Genoa. I remember that the trial ended with seven convictions and four acquittals, but above all with 37 prescriptions. I would remind you, incidentally, that the Court of Cassation has definitively reaffirmed that very serious violations of human rights were committed in Bolzano. Well, the prediction of the torture crime would most likely have prevented the extinction of all these crimes. It would have prevented all these people from getting away with it. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Of course, it would have to be said now, to comment on the introduction of the crime proposed with this bill: "Better late than never" or even that it needed this new legislature. Above all, it was necessary to wait for a new sensitivity to be formed in Parliament, in this renewed Parliament. Let us therefore vote on an important rule, which will make this a special day in this parliamentary term. That is why I too want to remember the names of some victims who have become symbols of abuse and torture in recent years. I would like to remember Federico Aldrovandi, Riccardo Rasman, Stefano Cucchi, Giuseppe Uva, Aldo Bianzino. But I would also like to point out that the UN Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment has been signed by as many as 145 countries around the world, including Italy, and that the introduction of the crime of torture into our criminal system was the necessary consequence. Similarly, Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights require us to assume this responsibility. Finally, speaking of torture, we cannot fail to mention the important report of the Committee of Inquiry into the health system and the horrors that have been reported in this report in the last parliamentary term on judicial psychiatric hospitals (OPG). We are well aware that existing legislation does not adequately punish these incidents. The episodes of torture, in addition to blatantly violating the international norms cited, also disregard, among other things, Article 13 of our Constitution, in the part where it provides for the punishment of all physical and moral violence on people still subject to restrictions of freedom. In conclusion, today we finally have the opportunity to improve our regulatory system and to make the answer of the state, the best we can give now, so that so many acts of barbarism can no longer be repeated. We of the 5 Star Movement will not escape this responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u93	Mr President, my Group also welcomes the fact that we have finally come to introduce the crime of torture into our criminal code, which is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed against a person. A number of draft laws had been presented in the Commission, one of which - the draft law No 388 - is on my own initiative, whereas the basic text adopted is very close to that of which Mr Manconi is the first signatory, who, being also President of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, I believe is an authority, and I bow to what he has written and wanted. The rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, has also my esteem for the skills I recognise him, both being members of the Justice Commission (I am a doctor and I have always said that I am in the Justice Commission because justice is sick, so he needs someone to care for it). I therefore believe that Senator D'Ascola and Senator Manconi cannot fail to acknowledge that in the text which the Commission dismissed there is a torture in Article 1, when it is expected that, if the culprit voluntarily causes death, the penalty is life imprisonment, because the latter is torture. I can therefore only agree with the amendments tabled by Senator Buemi, Senator De Petris and others, which delete this further crime that we want to introduce in a text on the crime of torture. Torture, as well as genocide, is considered a crime against humanity by all international law. The prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is the subject of many international conventions, ratified also by our country. Those who preceded me spoke of Bolzano: I don't know if there was torture there, but surely at the end of the first Republic, in the so-called years of Tangentopoli, certain pm - I don't name names, but only the surnames (Di Pietro & co) - tortured physically and psychologically those who questioned, to make themselves said things even not true. So to get to what? To get exiles to die in foreign land Bettino Craxi and torture the parties of the so-called pentaparty, which had led Italy to be the fifth economic power of the world and to enter the G7. Well, if these crimes are committed by the PMs - and thus by public officials - it is right that they be affected, whether they have instigated judicial police personnel or whether they have committed them directly. This is in fact a crime that also affects prosecutors when they intentionally conduct behaviors aimed at being said things that would otherwise not be said. And in the event of death or injury it would also be an assault. So, roughly, we give an extraordinarily positive judgment on what we are doing in Parliament in order to introduce, by the end of February, the crime of torture into the Italian legal system, also because it is right that those who instigate it and perpetrate it in the name and on behalf of the Italian people pay. But with this correction, why... In a system we cannot predict life imprisonment, which is further torture. With this correction, i.e. with the approval of the amendments by my colleagues in SEL or the Socialists in Buemi, the pro-Communists, we are giving a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u94	Colleagues, as this debate is of interest to the whole House, but in particular to the Justice Commission, whose members lead the debate, it seems reasonable to me to accept President Palma's proposal, so to postpone the continuation of the examination of the bill we are discussing and to proceed, given the amount of amendments to be examined in relation to the prison decree, with the work of the Justice Commission, which will be able to meet immediately and have sufficient time to examine all the texts. On the other hand, at the Conference of the Leaders we decided to hold a sitting as early as Monday, but if we do not finish work in the Commission it is pointless to intensify the work of this House. More or less I have asked all the groups, but if I receive further signs of assent... (Senators Crimi and Stefani show that they agree) we postpone the debate so that at 7 p.m. the Commission can meet and discuss with the necessary time the measure to be examined by the House next Monday.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u97	CASSON (PD). Mr President, on this very subject we give our consent, also because the follow-up to the examination of the draft law on the introduction of the torture offence had already been scheduled for the afternoon sitting next Wednesday. Therefore, since it was assumed that we would go to Wednesday and that there is this decree to be discussed in the Chamber already on Monday, it is okay to proceed as you indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u98	Senator Casson, thank you. I should like to inform the House that at the Conference of the Leaders today there has been a lengthy discussion of the decrees and their deadlines, so much so that it has been decided to convene a meeting on Monday. Moreover, without the completion of the work in the Commission, it would have been pointless to bring the measure to the House tomorrow. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the draft laws relating to the introduction of the torture offence at another sitting. The Justice Commission has been authorized to convene since 7 p.m. today to work all the time and to allow the examination of Decree-Law No 146 in the Chamber at Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u101	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, on 27 November 2013 I tabled, together with many of my colleagues, the question 4-01205, addressed to the Minister for the Environment, which deals with the serious situation in which the former Monti quarry was and still remains, located in Maddaloni in the province of Caserta, used as a landfill in the years of the so-called emergency and then became a spillover of waste of all kinds, even toxic and special, as denounced several times by the local associations. I want to inform the Presidency and the House that the prosecutor of the tribunal of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, through a press release of a few weeks ago signed by the prosecutor of the Republic of Capasso, informed us that the first technical checks carried out in the area of the aforementioned landfill Monti have revealed the contamination of the aquifer and that - I quote - considered the presence in the area of inhabited farms and an intense agricultural activity, in theory can already be assumed, on the basis of this first technical investigation, the crime of environmental disaster. I would like to point out to you that the Ministry of the Environment had been informed of the serious situation of the Monti quarry by the Agency for the Protection of the Environment of the Campania Region (ARPAC) already on December 7, 2009, with the protocol report n. 8054. I am therefore asking you, Mr President, to urge the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of Land and Sea to give an urgent answer to the questions raised in the question, in the hope that this time they will not expect the usual twenty years before they take note of the environmental disaster that is perpetuated in our territory. Thank you right now, Mr President, because I am sure you will take charge of making this request. If you've listened to her, Mr. President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u102	Senator Moronese, I apologize: I will eventually stay with you at the end of the session to discuss the subject. I was talking to the President of the Senate to inform him of the decisions taken on the progress of the proceedings. There is no such thing as ubiquity, but his speech is in the act, and that matters much more. If you have the courtesy, at the end of the sitting I will be able to listen to you privately. I apologize again, Senator Moronese, but I am one.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u105	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, Roberto is dead, but Freak Antoni lives on. He is alive in my history, in the history of Bologna and in the artistic, musical and literary history of our country. He is alive in the traces still visible of that great season of historical, social and cultural change that in the seventies he had "Freak " Antoni among his greatest protagonists. Described as a demential rock author (wrote demential verses), today we know that in reality Freak Antoni has left us as a legacy a lucid and faithful photograph of the absurd that has crossed our country for many years and that still continues to manifest itself in our existence. The profound lightness of the prose and the poetry of "Freak " Antoni leave in music and art the nostalgia of a Bologna and an Italy that no longer exist: a vacuum comparable only to what his friend Andrea Patienza left in the world of comics. Thinking about "Freak" and "Antoni" and "Skiantos" moves us to look back to retrace our past, but also to imagine a future where music, poetry and even the apparent demenziality of the artists will no longer be crushed by the grayness of those who consider the theatres superfluous and indispensable wars. Imagine the Italy that would have wanted " Freak " Antoni takes us away from the aridity of those who describe culture as a dry branch of the economy, to be cut without scruples, and in doing so is taking away oxygen from many young artists, poets, musicians and singers, in Bologna as in all Italy. And that's why in celebrating the great past of a man and an artist, I would also like to think of a future in which Italy will be again a fertile ground for artists and creatives, a sunny and funny place, full of fantasy, colors, creativity, music, anti-conformism and creative transgression, just like the life and inventions of Roberto Freak Antoni. By striving to build this future, we could put at the center of our attention the Italian creativity that has made us famous all over the world and we could finally deny one of the historical quotations of the "Freak" Antoni, which at the moment is sadly true: there is no place, in this Italy, for intelligent people. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u106	The Presidency supports the tribute to Roberto Antoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u109	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to call for a second time for an answer to questions 2-00106 and 2-00107, at my signature, presented on 23 December 2013 and 2 January 2014 concerning the National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating Discrimination based on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity and on the Guidelines for Information Respectful of LGBT Persons, published in recent weeks by the Department for Equal Opportunities of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. These are worrying documents, which presuppose a series of elements that are currently prohibited by law (such as adoptions for same-sex couples and marriage for same-sex couples), which are advocated and inculcated in schools and which even have the ambition to change the way of communicating not only by the institutions, but even by the ecclesiastical authorities (which I do not understand in our Republic should be subject to those of the State). I understand that the Government is engaged in other things and therefore has no time to answer on this point. However, the same Department of Equal Opportunities has had time to prepare and disseminate in schools a new publication ('Educating to diversity at school'), intended for primary school and other types of school, where, among other things, they are indicated as persons at risk of being homophobic - we remember that we have a bill in question that provides to render criminally punishable with prison the crime of homophobia - the people who follow religious precepts and who have a high degree of religiosity. I believe that these are opinions that are entitled to citizenship, like all opinions, even the most bizarre, but not with the stamp of the Italian Republic, Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Department for Equal Opportunities. So it would be good for the government to respond before further indoctrination of children came out. The question is addressed to the President of the Council, because the Department of Equal Opportunities depends on the Presidency of the Council, but of course I expect the answer from other elements of the Government, with everything that would be very welcome the presence of the President of the Council, whose stamp appears on these publications. It would be normal for him to answer, since he finds time to produce these other disproportionates.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u110	Senator Malan, surely we will have to ask the answer to these important questions of yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-190.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 February, in two public sessions, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.57.
