ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 25 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u4	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u8	By letter received on 27 June 2014, Senator Bitonci declared, following his election as mayor of the City of Padua, that he wanted to resign as Senator of the Republic. As a result of its resignation on grounds of incompatibility, the Assembly can only take note of this. I hereby authorize the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to convene immediately to ascertain the successor candidate to the resigning senator, to whom I wish him good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1332. The working rapporteur, Senator Orellana, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law we are debating today is the ratification and enforcement of the Treaty on criminal judicial assistance between Italy and the People's Republic of China, signed in October 2011. The process of ratification was started in the last parliamentary term, but it was not concluded. First of all, it is clear that the measure must be considered as closely related to the ratification of the extradition treaty between the two countries, whose approval procedure at the Foreign Affairs Committee, after the formulation of opinions by the Constitutional Affairs and Budget Committees, is close to completion. This Treaty responds to the need to ensure a binding legal framework for Italian-Chinese relations in the judicial field, currently governed by a general strategic cooperation agreement, in a context characterised by the increasing economic and trade relations between the two countries and the need to strengthen measures to combat crime. The Treaty, which consists of 22 articles, lays down the obligation of mutual assistance in criminal matters between the parties. Article 1, in particular, in defining the scope of the Agreement, includes between mutual assistance measures the notification of documents, the assumption and transmission of witnesses and expert opinions, the search and identification of persons, the transfer of persons in custody in order to allow their appearance as witnesses or otherwise in a judicial proceeding in the territory of the requesting Party, the execution of investigations, searches and seizures of property, the confiscation of proceeds and objects relevant to criminal offences and information on criminal record. Designated in their Ministries of Justice as the central authorities responsible for transmitting requests (Article 2), the Treaty defines in Article 3 the cases in which legal assistance may be refused or postponed, including cases of crimes considered political by the requested State or exclusively military under the law of the requesting State, with the exception of terrorist offences, as well as those where there are reasonable grounds for believing that the request for legal assistance present in respect of a given person is a persecutory purpose for reasons of race, religion, nationality, political opinion. Other cases in which legal assistance may be refused refer to the case in which the fact that the applicant party proceeds is not a criminal offence under the legislation of the requested party (so-called double indictment principle) or whether the person to whom it is proceeding has already been investigated and judged for the same fact by the requested party (so-called ne bis in idem principle), the subsequent articles of the bilateral agreement govern the forms and content of the requests for assistance (Article 4), the manner in which they are executed (Article 5) and the confidentiality they assume (Article 6). Articles 7 to 18 therefore specify the modalities of the different forms of judicial assistance provided for in the Treaty under consideration, from the notification of documents to the taking of evidence, from the refusal to bear witness to the appearance of witnesses and experts, from the temporary transfer of persons held to the investigation activities, to the exchange of information on criminal proceedings and legislation. Article 14, in particular, in defining the arrangements for carrying out bank investigations of certain natural or legal persons, excludes the opposability of banking secrecy as a reason for refusing assistance. Lastly, Article 19 provides for the subdivisions of the costs of the parties to the execution of requests for assistance, Article 21 provides that the resolution of any disputes in the interpretation or application of the Treaty is to be defined by consultation between the central authorities (which we have said are the Ministries of Justice of both parties), Article 22 specifies the time limits for entry into force and termination of the agreement. The draft law of ratification of the Treaty under consideration consists of four articles which form, respectively, the authorisation of ratification, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges (which can be estimated at around 32,000 euros per year from 2014), and the entry into force of the text. On the figure of EUR 32,000 we had the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission and in the technical report we explain how we get there. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate constitutional problems, nor does it conflict with the Community and international regulations to which Italy is bound and indeed moves in the wake of the Convention of the Council of Europe on Legal Assistance of 1959. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u11	As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u12	Madam President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u13	Let us turn to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u14	We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.45 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.) Let's resume our work. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1332 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1332 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1332 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1332
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u18	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Madam President, the Treaty with the People's Republic of China was and is an absolutely necessary instrument also in view of the increase in trade with this important country. The legal instruments make it easier for trade to be stepped up, and the intensification of trade leads to the need for legal instruments, which can work to resolve problems of legal relations with trading partners. Apart from this commercial clarification, it must be pointed out that the Treaty is responsible for resolving the problems typical of relations with States, especially in the area of judicial assistance (this is what we are dealing with). On this point, it is clear that our criminal system, both in the code and in the Constitution, has rules - the constitutional ones which are binding even when drafting the covenant agreements between States - which, however, are able to solve the problem of extradiction at the general level. Nevertheless, the Treaty is a legislative document, which goes into detail. Hence, in addition to constitutional and codex principles, it solves problems that general provisions cannot deal with. The Treaty of Mutual Criminal Assistance with China intervenes, in particular, on a historical problem in the matter of extradition: that of the so-called specialty clause or double indictment. Given the undeniable differences between the two criminal legal systems, the Italian one and the Chinese one, it was clear that extradition could be required, but at the same time it could also be released, only on condition that the crime for which extradition is requested or released is punishable in both countries, being unthinkable that a country grants extradition for a fact that, if committed within its territory, does not give rise to any intervention of the criminal judicial authority. There is, therefore, this first clause of double indictment which - precisely - solves this problem. Then there is the not insignificant issue (without, of course, any political considerations) of limiting extradition in the case of so-called political crimes. This is a category, provided for by the penal code in Article 8, namely that of objectively political crimes and crimes subjectively political: we want to avoid extradition being able to function as an element in some way limiting political freedoms, especially with reference to the political realities of "different" countries (and I would like to add only this attribution or qualification) from ours. It is also stipulated that extradition cannot, however, be granted if there are reasonable grounds to fear that the person may be subjected to the death penalty, prohibited in our constitutional system, but also to degrading, offensive treatment of the moral personality of the citizen or that they may result in torture practices. Recently, this Legislative Assembly voted to introduce the crime of torture into the Italian legal system, passing the text of the bill to the Chamber of Deputies: here it is essentially intended that extradition be restricted to treatments that are - this yes - limiting personal freedom, but that they put themselves outside the risk of being degrading or ending up in torture or, worse still, in penalties that our legal system also prohibits at the constitutional level. It must be said that the clause that seems to be elastic inevitably is: I am referring to that of the well-founded reasons that may cause fear that the extradited person may be subjected to degrading or inhuman treatment in that country, torture or in any case sanctioning treatment prohibited by our constitutional system. This clause is therefore inevitably elastic for the obvious reason that it was not possible to ask for the certainty of subjection to such treatments, which would certainly have unduly limited the extradition institute. However, it was necessary to anchor the assessment of the extraditableness to elements which suggested such a risk, in the light of the protection of those rights and guarantees concerning the human person. In short, for these reasons and for the many others that could have been indicated - which would have made this intervention too long, burdening it with similar considerations - I declare the vote in favour of the New Centro-Rextra Group. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u21	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, the vote by our Group will be in favour of this step forward, let us call it that, in international relations on mutual criminal judicial assistance. However, we would like to make a few remarks and points on this Treaty, which I would say - perhaps somewhat inappropriately - 'to rose water', in the practical sense of the matter. I would like to remind the Undersecretary Della Vedova that, as you know, this morning we ratify an international agreement with a country like the People's Republic of China, in which justice, human rights and imprisonment are perhaps applied differently than ours, as the chronicles report every day. There are quite different agreements with more Western and Westernised countries, as regards mutual relations, compared to those with the People's Republic of China, a country where - alas - the death penalty is a practice exercised daily and with a certain nonchalance. We know very well that this is not about the Treaty we are ratifying, which speaks of anything else, but we are not going to ask questions, but rather to create conditions for reciprocity to be more solid and interesting in the negotiation between Western countries such as ours and those like the People's Republic of China, in which justice and human rights are exercised in another way. We would like to take this opportunity this morning to remind the Undersecretary of the Widow that a very important international issue is still open in terms of human rights and reciprocity, which concerns the Maroons. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Very quietly, we take the opportunity, Mr Undersecretary, to say only that it would be appropriate for the Government and Parliament to work, perhaps, to approve a motion or something solid from a political point of view, to give our Government the means to remedy the crap done by the Monti Government. Let me use this expression, Mr. Undersecretary, because we know each other: it could only happen to a country like ours to go back to the maròs and take them home to spend Christmas, and then return them as a postal package. I would have kept them, with all the risks, even political, of the then government. But at least they'd be home, we'd have kept them, and the Indians would have sent a lot of greetings for Christmas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Having said that, our vote will be in favour: let all actions which improve international relations with regard to the judicial system and the protection of human rights held or under judicial regime in countries which are more bordering from this point of view. It is clear that these issues will go into the background. There are always strong issues with regard to international relations with countries like India, in which - I remember this once again - we have two of our fellow citizens who, not because of them, are still in prisons and we do not know what will happen. You'll tell us, I hope, shortly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u24	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, the ratification of this agreement, made in 2010, sees the light of day after four years of its conclusion. It is therefore necessary to point out that the need to establish a process of improving Italian-Chinese bilateral relations has not been a priority for our country. This, despite the wide range of relations existing between the two countries, as some colleagues have already pointed out. Another fundamental note is the fact that the foreign country in question, precisely in the year of the conclusion, was mentioned as one of the countries still extremely lacking in terms of the protection of human rights and still today is one of the first countries in the world for the number of executions, quantifiable even in some thousands in 2013. In this respect, it is reassuring that Article 1 of the agreement which we are ratifying, in particular paragraph 3, excludes important cases, such as extradition of persons, the execution of criminal sentences, the transfer of sentenced persons; These issues deserve due respect and therefore proper consideration. Therefore, for the reasons just mentioned, I declare the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u27	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Mr Senators, the Forza Italia Group supports the measure on the ratification and enforcement of the Treaty on mutual criminal judicial assistance between Italy and the People's Republic of China, signed in October 2011. The rapporteur, explaining the content, highlighted the importance of this measure, with which an extremely significant and important process of development is launched in the bilateral relations between Italy and China, allowing in the field of criminal judicial cooperation the implementation and practical operation of close and incisive cooperation between the two countries. In general, the basic objective of the Treaty, which is to establish the obligation of mutual assistance in criminal matters between the parties, is to include this agreement in the framework of other similar agreements signed by the countries of the European Union with non-EU countries. Specifically, this agreement marks a new step in relations between Italy and China. This in the field of justice is a further form of cooperation between two countries geographically distant but, in recent years, protagonists of an increasingly collaborative relationship. We know, ladies and gentlemen, how globalisation is not only economic, but also geographical and to be understood in terms of the possibility of moving easily from one part of the world to the other: hence the need to ensure instruments of cooperation between countries also in the field of justice. I conclude by highlighting the interest and importance of Chinese events in recent years: China's economic development has been among the most important phenomena on the world stage. China, although with many internal contradictions, has radically changed its foreign policy in the last twenty years, gradually opening up to the rest of the world. For this reason, returning to the specifics of the measure under consideration, it is important, on the part of the Senate, also to support cooperation in criminal justice. In this way, too, we are actively contributing to the practical implementation of a policy of cooperation at international level. I therefore repeat the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on this bill of ratification. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u30	CUCCA (PD). Madam President, the approval of the measure before the Assembly stems from the need to regulate criminal judicial assistance between the two countries concerned, Italy and China, and is due to the social reality that has come to determine in dependence of the constant increase in relations between the two countries in the financial, economic and commercial sectors; increasingly frequent relations also in view of the increasing importance that the Chinese State is taking on in the world scene. The Treaty is part of similar measures, which Italy is taking with non-EU countries, aimed at improving cooperation relations. In this particular case, the issue - as has already been said - of criminal judicial assistance is being addressed, with the obvious objective of improving the fight against crime as well. We can certainly say that the Treaty, whose content is effectively set out in the introductory report to the measure, allows for a significant improvement in relations between these two countries which undertake to offer maximum cooperation in the field of criminal judicial assistance. There are those who do not see the enormous innovative scope in the attitude taken between China and Italy, perhaps even unthinkable until a few years ago. It is the unequivocal sign of the new course, dictated also by the globalization and the spread of relations between States that have imposed the regulation of the relations themselves, especially with regard to the common intention, which is the main objective of this measure, to effectively combat crime and the phenomena of malavitism. And it is with this in mind - once the treaty is ratified by the two countries and therefore becomes operational and effective - that the Ministries of Justice of the two countries concerned will be put in constant communication, in order to put in place all the actions necessary for the performance of the respective functions of combating crime and repression of delittuous hypotheses, offering the maximum collaboration with each other - and this is the main objective - in order to make the procedural procedures sent and effective in the interest of the good administration of justice, but also - and this is an extremely important fact - in the interest of the subjects to whom adequate assistance will be ensured: offended parties, responsible for crimes or persons of various kinds involved in criminal proceedings (think of the witnesses, since this matter is also regulated). In this way, criminal judicial assistance will be fully regulated and will no longer be left to diplomatic initiatives, which do not guarantee a certain time or equal treatment, with all the intuitable problems resulting from the individual examination of individual cases. All this in full respect of universally recognised civil and political rights and with the adoption of guarantee principles that avoid arbitrariness in the evaluation and implementation of the Treaty. It is therefore desirable that similar initiatives should also be taken with other countries with which such treaties have not yet been concluded; Countries with which the economic and financial relations with which I have spoken are in progress, but also those countries whose inhabitants are our immigrants and, constituting an impressive migratory flow, often have to deal with the good administration of justice. Having said that, it is hoped that similar measures will also be taken with those countries, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u33	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u35	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533, as well as the opinion of the Junta for the Rules expressed at the session of 7 June 2006, the allocation of the seat made vacant in the Veneto Region following the resignation of Senator Massimo Bitonci, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Paolo Tosato. I acknowledge the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities of this communication and proclaim Senator Paolo Tosato. [[Applause.]] I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation. Welcome to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u38	[[Brusio.]] I would ask those who must move away from this House to do so quickly and, if possible, in silence. Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, at 11 a.m. this morning the funeral of the great poetess, translator, writer and intellectual Maria Luisa Spaziani should have been held. I consider her to be the greatest contemporary Italian poet and with great regret I think that her death, which took place last Thursday, deprives us of an important voice. An important figure in the verses he wrote, who in 2012 had the possibility to be collected in a...Meridiano della Mondadori, and great for how he managed to live in difficult and complex literary environments, that is, as a protagonist. Still ungraduated student, Maria Luisa Spaziani directs a small magazine, which allows her to get in touch with many writers and intellectuals. At 27 he knew the great Eugenio Montale, who would be for her, affectionately bound to Zolla, who married for a very short time, his great love. He continues in his work as a writer, poet, translator and teacher, and his poetic vocation immediately manifests itself with some important collections of verses, such as "Spring in Paris", "The waters of the Sabbath", "The eye of the cyclone" and many others. He also teaches language and literature at the university. His essays on Proust, his translations, his study on Giovanna D'Arco are famous; and then his friendships: with Ezra Pound, Borges, Picasso, Sandro Penna, Pratolini. She's not an easy woman. He often clashes with other intellectuals and writers: famous the clash with Group 63 and Sanguineti. He founded the International Centre Eugenio Montale and the Prize, which he directed for many years. It was a very original voice and continued to write until the end. Having known her for me was a great honor; having had her as a member of the jury of the International Literary Prize titled to another great writer, Laudomia Bonanni, was for me an extraordinary experience, which I share, among other things with Senator Sergio Zavoli, also a member of the jury, who thus loses such an important voice. Maria Luisa Spaziani leaves a daughter, Oriana, and a sister, Bianca. When I met her, she surprised me and made me fall in love with her liveliness; a timeless liveliness, which manifests itself in poetry, especially in those of love. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you to conclude, Senator, and you chose to do this at the end of the sitting. Mr Pezzopane (PD). After Alda Merini, the loss of Maria Luisa Spaziani takes away another extraordinary voice of woman to international literature. The funeral rite was moved to 16 o'clock; therefore, thanks to Senator Zavoli, this communication allows those who want to be present, in the Church of the Artists in Piazza del Popolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u39	I think the information you gave is important to those who want to participate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u42	CASTALDI (M5S). In April 2014 an agenda was approved presented by Senators Marinello, Mancuso, Dalla Zuanna, Caleo, Di Biagio and others, on environmental issues related to exploration, research, cultivation and extraction of liquid hydrocarbons at sea, with particular reference to the consequences on the national coasts. The beginning of this agenda is that these activities, by their nature, involve invasive operations of the seabed and marine environments. The agenda committed the Government, among other things, to carry out a reconnaissance and evaluation of the relevant discipline; to re-evaluate the whole of the authorisations, considering that the MISE has expanded the marine zone C; to ensure the timely transposition of Directive No 30 of 2013 of the European Union, paying particular attention to the assessment of the applicant's technical and economic capacity to deal with possible measures to compensate for environmental damage, as well as to involve the relevant territories and authorities. Moreover, they commit the Government to arrange for the suspension of the new activities of cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons within the 12 miles from the coast lines and marine and coastal protected areas. My colleague, Mrs Pezzopane, who has just spoken, went so far as to say: The Government is also committed to reviewing the project concerning Abruzzo - just read the shorthand reports - and that the suspension of the project "Ombrina mare" is an important result for the economic protection of our coast. I would like to inform everyone that in the last 60 days - as can be verified by consulting the website of the Ministry of the Environment - seven projects are under environmental impact assessment procedure, including a prospecting permit of 21,000 square kilometers in Sardinia; an acquisition of geophysical data in the Gulf of Taranto, between Policoro and Trebisacce, but above all I would like to signal to the citizens of Abruzzo, and also to my colleague, that on July 29 the deadline for the presentation of the Observations of this project expires: Opera: concession for the cultivation of hydrocarbons. Project: cultivation of the Ombrina sea field. Description: "Ombrina mare" includes the drilling of four-six wells, the construction of a floating tank for the treatment and storage of oil production, a gas and oil production platform, a sealine for transfers between the platform and the tank and another sealine for the transfer of gas from the platform to an existing platform called Santo Stefano Mare 9. The proposer is Medoilgas Italia SpA; the typology of the work is the cultivation of hydrocarbons. So that project, which Mrs Pezzopane had emphatically and I must say demagogically propagandad as suspended, instead - look what a surprise - continues. This is the important result of that agenda which I prophetically defined in my speech on that day by the term "fuffa." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u45	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, I am speaking to bring to the attention of this House and yours, Madam President, an anomalous situation which has been created for a few months in the Italian Parliamentary Delegation to the Assembly of the Council of Europe. The current President, Mr Sandro Gozi, of the Democratic Party, was appointed Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the Renzi Government on 28 February 2014, with the delegation to European policies. The Undersecretary therefore currently holds the two positions, that of President of the Parliamentary Delegation of the Council of Europe and that of Undersecretary. Now, I do not go into the substance of the Rules of Procedure; it is probably possible that the Undersecretary may assume the two positions. We have come to know of a letter of reminder sent, with a perfect timing, by the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber, to invite the Undersecretary Gozi to resign from his office as President of the Delegation, so as to make the Delegation work in the best way, which has not happened to date. In this case, I think it is a typical syndrome that has plagued these buildings for too long (the strange thing is that it is a young person who is afflicted): the "poltronite". In fact, the Undersecretary today receives compensation both as President of the Delegation and as Undersecretary. I ask myself and ask you - but I have no certainty about this - whether the Undersecretary also uses staff working with the Delegation to carry out the duties of Undersecretary. I wonder if common sense should not be the rule in this case. I therefore ask you, Madam President, to speak kindly so that the Undersecretary can resign from the office of President of the Parliamentary Delegation of the Council of Europe, so that we can resolve the matter with a new and immediate election of a new President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u46	I take note of your words, Senator Santangelo, but, as you yourself said, the two Presidents of the House and Senate have already sent a reminder. Therefore, as a Presidency, we will follow the process to speed up the fulfilment of this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u49	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I rise to publicly denounce a fact which I consider to be very serious. I'm talking about the President of the Republic most loved by Italians, Sandro Pertini. You know that President Pertini in his 70th year did not want to move to the institutional seat, but, along with his wife Carla, wanted to stay in his residence in Fontana di Trevi. The house, of course, as everyone knows, was not his property, but was rented by the Municipality of Rome. That house, at the death of his wife Carla, was transformed into a museum, a destination for students and school trips. Many foreigners when they come to Italy want to see where Sandro Pertini lived for many years. Now I learn that the City of Rome wants to put it on sale. This is a big outrage to President Pertini, his memory and his battles. I remember that, a young graduate in law, he did not bow to fascism and Mussolini, fighting them, just as he did not bow to the front and to the prevailing communism. It bothered the two extremes, both to the right and to the left. Sorry to find that the current mayor, perhaps inheriting a will of his predecessor, wants to sell this historical monument linked to a President of the Republic and a man who fought with personal sacrifice. He is one of the few in fact who did the prison and the resistance really did it on his skin for decades. We Socialists will do everything possible to prevent this from happening even if we are chained to the door. I, as a sign of protest and to ask Mayor Marino to go back on his decision, will bring every day a fresh red carnation on the door because that I believe is a symbol that will defeat any malicious. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u50	I hope that there is no need for anyone to chain down and I hope that the issue of President Pertini's house can be resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u53	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I read a message that came to me just now: here in Malpensa, yesterday afternoon, 1 July 2014, three charter aircraft arrived from Comiso that brought 500 immigrants to our Provinces. They set them up in terminal 2 group area. The organization was bad. The police were notified at the last moment and, when they realized that they could not handle the situation, they also asked for help from Civil Protection. Among the 500 guests there are two with suspected smallpox infections. To divide these people from normal passengers and airport operators there is a small wall of plasterboard without any sanitary sterilization of the area. We don't know how many days they'll be staying at Terminal 2. They are said to be coated in the next few days in the various municipalities of our Provinces. I bring this matter to the attention of the Government, through your person, Madam President, because this is not the proper way of handling a problem. I do not want to talk about what is happening between the North shore of Africa and the South shore of Europe. I am talking about what happens inside the country, about the same management that is done within the country of migratory flows. In this case, three planes arrived in Malpensa, were disembarked and stored as if they were carrying a cargo cargo to a part of the airport, without any management, even leaving the Forces of Order in difficulty in dealing with the situation. Obviously this will not find space in the official chronicle, but it is what is happening behind the scenes. Also in this - I say it to Minister Alfano - the seriousness of the Government in addressing the issue of immigration is not demonstrated, because this mode of management transfers problems to the territory and from the territory to the municipalities, but it is not hiding the problem under the carpet that is solved: it must be faced in a professional and serious way. If these people have received a health screening, they can be sent to the territories, but mayors, the same Province and the same prefecture must have such certainty and instead are unable to give it. Having said that, Madam President, I would ask you, through your person, to urge the Government to take a more serious approach to managing these flows. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u54	The Presidency will be responsible for transmitting this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u56	You have the floor, but what do you want to do about it, Senator Scilypoti? We are generally approaching the Presidency and we are informed about the subject of the speech: as you know, that is the rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u57	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I was about to clarify the reason for my speech at the end of the sitting, which also stems from the reflection made by my previous colleague, who concerns all of Italy. The representatives of the government, and in particular the President of the Council and Minister Alfano, have been called upon by Parliament on several occasions to report on the dramatic situation in Sicily. The situation that Senator Candiani has mentioned is of a gravity that is not equal. Perhaps some of us do not realize what our colleague from the North League said a few minutes ago, which has posed a very serious problem: he has spoken of smallpox and people who are being misplaced. Some people are trying to justify them, but they are children's, in relation to the fact that we have to provide for the emergency. Here there is no need to provide for an emergency, but to take a clear position and find solutions in the interest of these poor people, but at the same time protecting Italian citizens and the rest of the world. At this moment neither the Italian citizens nor the citizens of the world are being protected, because people who, not for their choice, but for a number of reasons, are carrying very serious diseases with deadly consequences are being placed on the national territory. This means that a person with smallpox who ends up in Lombardy, Piedmont or Sicily will create irreversible damage to citizens. If you cannot understand that at such a dramatic time you risk the lives of everyone, then you are not in a position to maintain the government of a country. And that means that we have a reckless and irresponsible President of the Council and a minister who cannot understand the gravity of the moment that is going through in this country. That is why I have spoken, Madam President: these reports have been made hundreds of times, not ten times, in private and in public, but those who have to listen are the listeners. It is inconceivable that we are not talking about serious issues and that we are talking about trivial subjects that are not of interest to the Italians but only a few, when instead we should find solutions in the interests of the community. Each of us tries to bring water to our own mill. This can also be done, but not when there is irreversible damage to Italian citizens. Here you risk the life of the individual Italian and European citizen. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to take a strong stand against what we now call the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior, who listens as a merchant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u58	First of all, I would like to say that the reminder that will be made will be addressed in particular with respect to the health authorities that are already monitoring the situation. I call on the senators and senators of this House, as far as possible, to be careful to create alarms if these have not been verified. This too belongs to the responsibility of each of us. [[Applause from Senator Cardinals.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u61	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, I am speaking only because I have already had the experience of written questions and, therefore, I wanted to urge the Presidency. I tabled today the written question 4-02426 to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the events that are continuing to occur in Nigeria and on the condition of Christians in those territories. I wanted to see if the Foreign Minister had taken any initiative and had an account in the House of how much the Government wants to put in place to safeguard the lives of Christians and religious in those countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u62	I think it is important to ask the question that has just been put.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u63	I would remind you that Parliament is convened at 12 noon on Thursday 3 July for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There will be a single call that will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-273.ana.u65	The Senate will come back to meet in public tomorrow, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.44 p.m.
