ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u11	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask the House's attention to Amendment 1,1000/24. This amendment concerns our request to lower the barrier threshold for the European elections from 4% to 3%. I understand that there is propaganda in Italy, which has been going on for some time now, according to which small parties are responsible for all the filth that has happened in this country. I also understand that this is said and built to wash one's conscience. However, I would like to have the House's attention on one point. The 4% barrage is provided for in the European elections only by the Italian legal system. In fact, unlike Italy, in 12 other European countries, and in particular in important countries, such as Great Britain, Portugal, Spain and, now, Germany, this quota has been lowered. You think that Germany, which had a 5% barrage quota, lowered that quota to 3%, and the German Constitutional Court even considers that 3% is illegal, and it is therefore likely that this quota will be further lowered. By the way, since we are used to following Germany on economic policy, sometimes it would be better to follow it, rather than economic policy, on their idea of democracy, which is perhaps slightly more advanced than ours. The point of reflection which I propose to this Parliament, and on which I would like it to express itself before voting, concerns the ratio of this measure, i.e. the logical reason for the introduction of a barrier threshold. Mr President, the point is that representation can be sacrificed, but if you get at least governability, it is precisely the ratio that has been used in all these years to introduce the barrier thresholds. Allowed and not allowed to succeed, i.e. that these high barrier thresholds have actually helped governability, this Parliament must in any case explain why the principle of sacrificing representation in exchange for governance can be extended to a body, the European Parliament, where there is no governing theme and where, moreover, there is no risk of fragmentation of political groups, given the limited number of groups themselves. I therefore call on the main parties in the Republican Parliament and, in particular, the Democratic Party, to really have a whisper of dignity on this point. It is not an act of generosity that we are asking primarily of the Democratic Party, but an act of political foresight. [[Applause from the Mixed Group - SEL - Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u12	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,1000/24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 1,1000/25, tabled by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u13	I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1224-1256-1304-1305 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000/26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,1000/26, tabled by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1224-1256-1304-1305 We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u16	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like briefly to explain my Group's vote against this amendment, which, however, perhaps with some inconsistency, but due to a majority constraint, will not lead us to vote against the measure, for reasons of loyalty. I would like to make a very brief point here. Although I am a woman in this House, I have not signed this bill, because it is my belief that women in politics, before protecting quotas in political institutions, must fight daily, also in their way of working in the roles they play, for the equality of women in society and in work. Italy has a female employment rate of 46%, against a European average of 57.2%. In the Scandinavian countries, where the average female employment rate is 71 percent, the participation rate of women in political institutions is 40%. I believe that, so that women can play a leading role in political institutions, they need a social and economic background that gives them strength, so that they may not simply be the cover for a political system that is essentially governed by a single genre. This bill was worthwhile (although I had some reservations for the reasons I said). However, we have seen that, within a few hours, in front of the diktats denounced by the rapporteur - who said that she had been under enormous pressure from all male agreements - the women who signed this bill did not keep the point, after having submerged us for about a week of gender rhetoric. I believe that this is not a good service to women, who are used for a political battle that is then abandoned: abandoned also because the preference for three, as Mr Sacconi has honestly stated, is completely useless, because as much, as he rightly said, three preferences does not give you anyone. The same postponement to 2019 is, so to speak, a postponement of style, since from here to 2019 everything can happen. I remember, dear Senator Calderoli and President, that you were overwhelmed with criticism when, in the constitutional reform of bicameralism for the reduction of parliamentarians, it was thought of a postponement of the entry into force from the legislature after that of 2016; it was, moreover, something much more challenging. On that occasion it was rightly said, in my view, that in reality there was no courage to really address the issue and that the political system did not have the capacity to address the issue. I believe that the issue of women in our country is a very serious one: it is a social and economic issue, and as such it must be addressed. I believe that the priority is not to protect the quotas of women who make politics, but women who live in society. In any case, at a time when a battle is being waged for women, these cannot be exploited and abandoned. That is why we shall vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the SCPI and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u19	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will also vote against this amendment, and we would like to share a few thoughts with the House. In part we held them in the general debate, but we did not think we would come to a conclusion, I would say, so painful, because exactly what they feared happened, that is, the worst: once again, after for days we said to ourselves in this House that we would never and never do what we saw in the House, here too we sacrificed the introduction of preferences and the balance of gender representation on the altar of the real political alliance that actually holds this Government. Then, in compliance with the pact with Berlusconi, we decided to cancel years and years of battles on rights and freedoms, for women and women. I have to say that I find the obstruction that the majority has done in these days of general discussion a little peculiar, because we thought that at least the commitment of the colleagues of the Democratic Party and the other colleagues who signed the bill would lead everyone to maintain their positions with strong consistency. On the other hand, once again, we must note that if one does not have courage, it is not that he can give it: that is the point of the debate. Then we, who had stated that we would not have used the debate on gender preferences to trade for anything, not even with the lowering of the barrier threshold, are not only loyally addressing the debate on the barrier threshold (which - we said - was the stone invitation of this debate), but in fact we approve, indeed, a very strange proposal to postpone the introduction of gender preferences to 2019. We know very well that anything can happen from here to 2019 and a thousand other changes can be introduced, but - as a senator suggested yesterday with a joke (I quote his words) - since the Senate will be cancelled, we benefit from predicting reforms for the future, since then we will have difficulty in intervening. I say all this because, at the end of this day, the result that will come from this vote will be a bad example for the whole country, but above all for the young people who listen to us. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u22	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I regret that once again it is a woman who attacks women: this is one of the reasons why we will always have a great deal of difficulty in achieving cultural equality before we have power. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Moreover, Senator Lanzillotta did not sign the proposal: she does not appreciate it, it is her legitimate right, but let alone the individual choice of people, women who have spoken here and men, who have reserved a large part of their lives for the battle for women's freedom. And don't ever talk about rhetoric again, because it's part of our experience. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Thirdly, I must say that I am frankly surprised that, in the century in great modernity, we are still here to say that women must take responsibility for the condition of women. It has been since the 1960s, Senator Lanzillotta, that we no longer speak in this way: keep up to date. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Also because it is not that men can also represent women and women must represent only women: that is not how it works. [[Comments of Senator Lanzillotta]] Dear Lanzillotta, I did the battles, I don't know you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Biasi, I invite you to speak to the Presidency. DE BIASI (PD). You're right, I'm sorry, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask you, even if I'm just a man. [[Applause]] DE BIASI (PD). Nobody's perfect, ma'am. As I said, it is not conceivable that women should represent women. I believe that men and women should be able to represent men and women, because I care about general representation and not partisan representation. Otherwise, we should talk about representation based on the quantity of women and men in society and, in that case, women should be in greater numbers. I do not agree with this mechanistic idea of natural law. Let me just say that this amendment has behind it the struggle of so many women in society. In this respect, one point is important: women in society must have access to these rooms, they must be able to arrive in the chambers of power. I do not allow anyone to prevent me from talking about power and doing so on the basis of a historical, numerical experience - as is known - of excluding women from power. As for the instrumentality (this is the last consideration I want to make), we must have the cards in order to be free from instrumentality, which I do not think happened during the discussion of this bill. As the monks said in the '500 - I say this to all of us, but in particular to those who also thought to trade other elements concerning the European elections with the value of equality - "Nisi caste, tamen cautete": if not in a chaste way, at least with caution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u25	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is achieved with this amendment has only one effect, and it has nothing to do with gender representation or the possibility of increasing the presence of women in Parliament. It has nothing to do with gender representation, because you only get the third preference nothing to use as a control of the scientific, calculated, mathematical vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the only result we will achieve for the next European elections. I would like to point out to my colleague who is so concerned about the situation in which women are faced with the need to defend women, that the measure shows the need for parties, groups, lists to legislate in order to regulate something that they can do independently, and that gives a sense of how they are degraded in their form. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have shown that it can be done: 70 percent of leading women did not come out following a law. Today, probably we, with 70% of women, could not do so, we will have to reduce their number compared to the number of men in a possible European election. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this will happen in five years and, in the meantime, anything can happen. However, I do not understand the reason for the tension when this amendment is the fruit of the majority. The rapporteur, of course, presented it because he was the only one who could present it, and tried to bring together the choices of the majority. If, therefore, nothing is achieved today, it is certainly not because of the oppositions that vote on this amendment. But you get nothing, because this is nothing about gender representation, and you get it thanks to the majority and the two men who command it, Matteo Renzi and Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u26	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 tabled by the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1224-1256-1304-1305 Amendments 1,109, 1,111, 1,112, 1,113, 1,114, 1,115, 1,1116, 1,118, 1,119, 1,128 (text 2), 1,120, 1,121, 1,122, 1,123, 1,124, 1,127, 1,129, 1,131, 1,132, 1,134, 1,135, 1,137, 1.5, 1.6, 1,138, 1,139, 1,140, 1,141, 1,142, 1,143, 1,144, 1,145, 1,110, 1,300, 1,301, 1.7, 1,302, 1,103, 1,11, 1.8, 1,304, 1,305, 1,306, 1,146, 1,147 and 1.0300 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1,110, 1,117, 1,125, 1,130, 1,133, 1,136, 1,148, 1,149 and 1,150 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u27	I greet the students and professors of the Liceo Scientifico (Galileo Galilei) in Belluno and those of the Istituto Sacro Cuore (Sacred Heart) in Modena. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G11000 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the agenda of G1,1000 presented by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1224-1256-1304-1305 We now come to the examination of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 1, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u29	Mr President, Amendment 1.0.107 (text 2) concerns the European elections but not the issue of gender equality. Italy is one of the 11 countries of the European Union that constitute the electoral seats at the consulates and embassies. The Continental Commission for Europe and North Africa of the General Council of Italians abroad voted unanimously on an agenda requiring that voting seats in national colleges should not be set up at consulates. It is an agenda that I fully agree with because it sets two objectives, the first of which has a strong political significance: Italian voters living in the countries of the European Union have the possibility - which they use to an ever greater extent - to vote and to stand in the countries of the European Union in which they are resident without having to change citizenship. (10.25 a.m.) (Follows MICHELONI). All other Italian electoral citizens must return to their colleges to vote in the European elections. The use of the seats is downhill: in the last election round only 90,000 voters have taken advantage of this possibility, while participation in the vote on the local lists is growing. The positive aspect of this agenda is the political leap it is making, because it demonstrates the will of European political integration and construction, because we cannot continue to support, as we have done in recent days, that Europe must make a step forward while then we continue to set up electoral seats at the consulates. This is the first political point. The second point is that the organization of these seats has a cost, which in the last election round was 10.5 million euros to collect 90,000 votes. It is logical to think that at the next electoral round the number of these votes will be lower (probably 40 to 50 000), since it was the first generations that had made greater use of this possibility. Amendment 1.0.107 (text 2) therefore calls for no electoral seats for the European elections at national consulates and embassies. I am well aware that my ability to persuade the Groups and the rapporteur is practically nothing at this time and therefore that this amendment will probably suffer the same fate as all the others. Allow me, however, to relax my souls, to tell an anecdote, before concluding. About thirty years ago, returning from Switzerland for vacation, an old eagle friend gave me a great lesson about Italy, which in recent years often comes to my mind. Listening to us coming back from abroad, he told us that we Italy did not understand it, and told us this story: one morning an Italian gets up and, caught by a raptus, comes out of the house with a hammer and hits in the head all the people he meets. The old man asked me a question at this point: How do Italian institutions react to such a problem? We naively responded by saying: The police take him, take him to the hospital where he is treated. The friend then replied: "You see that you didn't understand anything about Italy? If such a thing happens, the next day the government makes a decree that obliges all Italians to wear the helmet. This story should make us think, because I understand and I think it is of great common sense the call that the Head of State has addressed to us, to avoid the omnibus decrees so that there is consistency in matters, but we should respond with the same common sense, otherwise we should make a decree for every word of the Italian language, if everything is done rigidly as at this moment happens with the measure under consideration. I do not think I have convinced anyone at all, so at this point I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give a favourable opinion on the agenda, which will result from the transformation of this amendment, but without the usual formulas, such as "checking" and "considering the possibility of" it. I would ask that it be an agenda that commits the Government to addressing this issue with the necessary time to ensure that there are no more seats in the consulates for the European elections. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u32	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Madam President, the Government very much appreciates Mr Micheloni's speech and also the text of his proposal. Unfortunately, as I said yesterday, as the electoral procedure has already begun, it is not possible to accept it as an amendment. I would point out that the electoral procedure has already started in several countries, where the right to vote has already been exercised or has been exercised: Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Spain and Greece, with a total of almost 700,000 voters. Moreover, the citizens who vote on the basis of the Erasmus project have already exercised this right, so we would be in a position to have an annulment, with great prejudice and lack of a right. For these purely technical reasons, the amendment is not acceptable, but because all the reasons expressed by my colleague Micheloni, including the significant savings in expenditure, are real and true, the Government is willing to accept the agenda that will result from the transformation of the amendment, without the formula to evaluate the opportunity to do so, but as acceptance of the text as a whole. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u35	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I agree with the objective of saving, which certainly has to do with a different distribution of resources, also with respect to the issue of the renewal of the COMITES and the CGIE, but on the subject I would like to refer to the comments already made to my esteemed colleagues elected abroad, and which specifically concern the European elections. Last Monday I attended the AlmaLaurea conference. Well, 82% of our graduates working abroad are in Europe, but it is not an emigration like that of the past, with a strong roots in society and therefore with the consequent possibility of expressing candidates within that same society in which our graduates go to live, but a completely different type of mobility. So I think we should also update the concept of mobility and emigration. These are not subjects that are deeply rooted in Spain, France, Great Britain (the country that welcomes most of our graduates), but those whose connection with Italy must be preserved with the greatest care possible. What does this have to do with the European elections? These subjects are, among other things, highly qualified, because we are talking about an emigration of the highest quality: we are talking about graduates, specialists, people inserted in the best productive fabric of the countries in which they went to live. Now, what I'm worried about is that these people, who, in giving their vote, are nonetheless an expression of qualified realities, have the opportunity to do so with respect to the option between voting local candidates and voting Italian candidates. I have not said at all that these people are in power or want to go back to Italy to vote. However, I believe that the road is, on the one hand, to raise awareness of this new form of Italian mobility abroad and to keep it linked to issues that concern Italy and are discussed within the European Parliament; on the other hand, I believe that it is right to find the resources to be able to renew COMITES and CGIE, but not to the detriment of that same path of democratic participation, but rather somewhere else. If anything, taking note of the fact that the possibility of voting in consulates is not properly used, I believe that the Government should try to explore the possibilities of making voting cheaper through consulates, rather than eliminating that possibility. I also believe - but I believe that this applies to everyone - that it would be important to raise awareness among Italian citizens, whether they are resident in Italy or abroad (in Europe in particular), about how important it is to participate in these European elections. For these reasons, we shall also vote against an agenda. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u38	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, in fully agreeing with the spirit and objective of amendment 1.0.107 (text 2), I was wondering - also to get us a little further with the work - whether the government, instead of accepting an agenda, would not do better to ask for a rewording of the amendment, providing for a date of application of the rule in subsequent elections. So we eventually protect ourselves from application uncertainties, because often we get excited in the topical moments, but we forget in the following moments. Therefore, I would ask the representative of the Government to speak in favour of amendment 1.0.107 (text 2), but I would like the rule to enter into force in the next election. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u39	We verify the availability of the Government, because it is not the first provision of the provision that would have these characteristics. Please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u40	The Government has undertaken to accept the agenda and to take you on board. For the reasons that I have expressed in previous sittings, we are, however, in keeping with the fact that this text must correspond to the title. So we do not intend to introduce other elements into this text. However, I confirm the commitment made by the Government to the agenda of my colleague Micheloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u41	Senator Micheloni, do you accept the proposal to turn amendment 1.0.107 (text 2) into an agenda? Otherwise, the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u42	Madam President, I accept the proposal to turn the amendment into an agenda, without the formula to consider whether it is appropriate. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u43	So a prescriptive agenda, with the formula "engaged the Government" without any other additions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u44	MICHELONI (PD). I don't want to tell the story of the hammer and helmet again, but that's the problem. But this little problem should make us think about the next measures, otherwise we should make ten decrees a day. I therefore welcome this transformation and would like to say to my dear colleague and friend Mussini that the speech he has made unfortunately looks at the future with his eyes on it, because our people participate in European life and are also candidates in England from Italians, they are candidates in Belgium, they really vote and build Europe. Our Italians in Europe are European citizens. It would be appropriate that, in the Italian semester, the material and real citizenship of European citizens living in Europe outside their countries (22 million) is an issue addressed by our country, which has so many on these 22 million. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u45	I call on the rapporteur to comment on the G1.0.107 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u46	Madam President, the opinion is in favour. I would like to take the opportunity to thank my colleague Micheloni for avoiding the vote on Amendment 1.0.107 (text 2) which we did not manage to avoid yesterday on the problem of Sardinia. The headlines in the newspapers yesterday in Sardinia did not respect the truth. In fact, to say that we did not vote just because the rapporteur was against it means to give a reading of what is happening in this House absolutely forced. Therefore, the opinion is in favour, because in this case we could only maintain this line, i.e. to give a favourable opinion on an agenda which does not fall within the specific scope of this law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u47	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.0.107 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u50	PAGE (NCD). Madam President, I would like to point out that Mr Dalla Tor and I wish to take up President Micheloni's agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u53	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to invite Senator Micheloni, because he alone can do so, to ask for his agenda to be put to the vote, in order to give more strength to his content.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u54	Senator Micheloni has already made it clear that he does not insist on voting. Amendments 1.0.108 and 1.0.109 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we had tabled an additional amendment in the Commission, 1.0.1, and it was an additional amendment, Mr President. I would like to address the President of the 1st Commission because I said that I would withdraw the amendments in this House in the hope that there would be no problems in this House. I now find out that the Offices felt that they had to include this amendment in the file - which for me is and remains additional - no longer as an additional one but transformed unmistakably (because my amendment was very clear: - after Article 1 insert the following) in Amendment 1,300, now doing so after voting. When the rapporteur's amendment was tabled, as my additional amendment, I did not turn it into a sub-amendment. It now appears that it has been declared foreclosed after the vote on our amendments and Senator Calderoli who lowered the barrier threshold from 4% to 3%. Among other things, it is not clear why it should be foreclosed. If one considers that it is an amendment aimed at adding an additional article, so much so as to decide not to turn it into a sub-amendment, it is quite frankly unacceptable to see it declared foreclosed. I would like to address my colleagues in the 1st Commission because, as far as I am concerned, I will no longer withdraw any amendments to the Commission, given the result. I honestly find it absurd that this choice has been made, all the more so after the rapporteur has tabled an amendment. Even more absurd then, since it was no longer included in the file as an additional amendment, it was declared foreclosed after the House rejected the amendment calling for the threshold to be lowered from 4% to 3%. Many people may have voted against the barrier at 3 because they did not want any barrier. Frankly, I ask that we put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u58	Senator De Petris, the Presidency has applied Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the President may change the voting order when he considers it appropriate for the sake of the economy or the clarity of the votes. Since the sub-amendments relating to the rapporteur's amendment, which were voted on, contained, at least in part, the subject of his amendment, the 1,300, in order to be able to examine it and vote, it was referred to the rapporteur's amendment because otherwise it would have been foreclosed, therefore not examined, either at that stage or at the next one. This is the substantive assessment of the amendment from the Presidency's point of view, and I therefore believe that it should be noted. I'm sorry, Senator, but I do. It cannot be put to the vote again with the content that has already been rejected by the House. Therefore, according to the ne bis in idem principle, it is not possible to vote in succession on the same provision. Since no other amendments have been tabled on Article 2 other than the deletion of Article 2.10 tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of that Rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u61	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I understand very well that the Senate and colleagues are in a position to vote on a measure in view of the European elections and that the compromise has been reached by a five-year delay in the effectiveness of certain rules that will only come into force then, but I abstained on Amendment 1,1000, tabled by the rapporteur on Article 1, because I would also like us to be aware that in these five years we will have to reflect on what has been planned. I also recall that Articles 3 and 51 of the Constitution - and the current wording of the Constitution I have personally contributed - speak of equal opportunities as a time and condition for participation and access. Instead, in the text we have foreseen that the last of the list presented for the European elections, if the gender balance is not respected, is removed, that is, deleted, in such a way that - I am speaking above all to those who have the heart of the Constitution and the principles - it will happen that Antonio Rossi or Antonia Rossi, who are Italian citizens with full electoral rights and who are perhaps on the list precisely because of their status as candidates in relation to professionalism, ability and the contribution they can make to Europe, will be automatically removed only because they are in the last place. If you go in alphabetical order, Abbot will be very happy, Zurlo will be eliminated. I would like to understand on the basis of which constitutional principle the last is eliminated, if in alphabetical order, because it has a surname that comes after in the alphabet, or, in case you do not go by alphabetical order but you make considerations of merit, why the last and not the half must be eliminated. Colleagues, even more serious, is provided for under the rule that if the imbalance is such that one, two, three, four, five candidates are eliminated and that the list is rejected, i.e. the participation of a list in the European Parliament is prevented. For example, I ask you a case of school: is it forbidden in Italy by law to be a Women's Party? Is it forbidden in Italy by law and Constitution to make the Party of Men? If, then, a person founds the Men's Party, considering that he is only participating with men in the elections, or if the Women's Party, wanting to participate in the elections with women's lists, on the basis of these rules all candidates are deleted and the list is rejected, i.e. we delete Article 3 from the Constitution. Article 51 of the Constitution applies it with an automatism such that the Constitutional Court will certainly have it, because we are no longer in the policies of equal opportunities that allow all Italian citizens, men or women who are, to participate and to be voted especially when there are preferences. It is fair to say (so far I arrive): there are more preferences, for equal opportunities if you vote a man you vote even a woman, not only people of the same sex are voted. I understand that it is a coercion, but it goes in the direction of facilitating equal opportunities. But this decimation automatism, this removing from the list the candidates, this rejecting the list, then eliminating at the root the possibility of participation in the European elections and the constitutionally guaranteed rights on the basis of a gender difference, seems to me a system that in the next five years will absolutely have to be revised. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u64	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I wanted to reflect on the fact that this debate has been very interesting. In some moments I also had doubts about my position, but then I reflected on the fact that we actually come from a male model that led the development of our country, but not only, to a point that we could define as not returning. I actually hope for a change of model, in which the female is driving (and it would be time to see him also in the decision-making direction of the country). I would like to reiterate what Mr Crimes said: why do we want to restrict women's entry into politics? Why do we want to put a roof beyond which women's representation cannot go? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u67	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u68	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on the maintenance of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1224-1256-1304-1305
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u71	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, even if we are not convinced of this, we in the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of this measure, which was rightly moving in the direction of promoting the reduction of gender imbalance. As everyone knows, in the European Parliament there is a female presence of about 36% of the total number of MEPs in office, and Italy ranks 25th among the Member States, with a percentage of women equal to about 23%, above only those of Poland, the Czech Republic and Luxembourg. The measure was intended to introduce a mechanism for gender rebalancing in the system of election of Italian representatives to the European Parliament, in line, therefore, with the resolution it adopted in 2013 to invite Member States and political parties to encourage the drawing up of lists guaranteeing equal representation, and with the approach proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in 2011, which provided that the parties were set the objective of having at least 40% of women as MEPs in 2014, as recommended by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Now, however, after what the rapporteur has called the possible mediation, everything is postponed to 2019: in other words, the list of candidates does not ensure the representation of both sexes, in the order of the list do not have to alternate candidates of different sex, there is no alternation in the role of leader and only one of the three preferences that the voter can express must concern a candidate of different sex. Of course, it will be said that a principle is established, but in our opinion it is a pateracchio, fruit of the pact between Forza Italia and the Democratic Party. With our amendments, we have then proposed another question, relating to the barrier threshold, which also concerns equality and equality of voting, the fundamental principle invoked by the German Constitutional Court, which, in its judgment of 26 February, stated the unconstitutionality of the 3% threshold. The point at issue is precisely the aim of the threshold: to reduce fragmentation, to promote stable majorities and to ensure governance. The point is that the European Parliament does not have much to do with a national Parliament. As we know, the collapse of the first Republic in Italian reality has tried to shape, forcing the electoral rules, precisely to the Westminster model, as an alternative to both the assembly system and the semi-presidency system, to the point that the provisions censored by the Italian Constitutional Court a few months ago did not limit themselves to introducing a corrective additional to the barrier thresholds to the proportional system - of course always with the aim of promoting stable majorities - but, and I quote the Court, they reverberate the ratio of the chosen electoral formula (...), which is to ensure the representativeness of the Parliamentary Assembly. Here, the attempt made in a national dimension in recent years has not been successful for many other reasons: for the failure to adapt some constitutional norms, from the perfect bicameralism to the power of dissolution and because in the parliamentary democracies in which the Westminster model is in various forms realized - in the United Kingdom, Germany or Spain - it is the parties that give strength to the institutions of government, and Italy cannot count on parties with a consistency that found a majority vocation, nor is it possible to pursue this model with business parties, personal parties, localist cartels and anything else. The central question in the referendums of 1991 and 1993 was whether the government should choose the citizens or the Parliament, and therefore the parties, and several times during the legislature. If that question is answered in the affirmative, that is, that the choice is for the citizens, then we must face the node of the form of government, because we cannot build the hypothesis of an electoral law of the mayor without its direct election, as we will see when we discuss the Italian electoral law. But the question we asked is: what does Europe have to do with this? At the moment there is no uniform discipline for the European elections, so far there are only some common principles laid down in the 1976 Act on the elections to the European Parliament, then amended in 2002. The crux of this act is that it requires the election to take place according to a proportional system, referring for the rest to national laws, with rules that therefore diversify in the various countries. Well, it is not the first time that the German electoral law is in the hands of the Court's censure: it had already taken place in 2011, and even then the barrier clause was discussed, and the threshold, then set at 5%, was subsequently reduced to 3%, but this amendment was not considered sufficient to remove the vice of constitutionality. Why? Because for the Court the equality of electoral votes for citizens and parties is a fundamental principle of the German Constitution, a principle that tolerates limitations only in exceptional cases, in particular, to protect the functionality of the parliamentary body that is to be elected. But this justification cannot be applied to the European Parliament which, always in the opinion of the Court, can function regularly even in the absence of the rule in question. Of course, the European Parliament is moving towards greater politicisation, as evidenced by the choice by each political group, precisely in the current election campaign, of its own candidate for the Presidency of the Commission and, of course, over time, perhaps this will result in a sharper contrast between majority and opposition, with the need for stable majorities in support of the Commission. Hence the need to avoid excessive fragmentation. However, while taking note of an ongoing development, the Court has remained firm on one point: at present there are no elements to justify a violation of the fundamental principle of equality of vote. That is the point we have tried to raise, because at present the European Parliament is different from the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, it is different from the Bundestag, because it does not elect a government of the Union and because its legislative function does not require stable majorities. So why is the barrier threshold 4%? I say this in the words of the German Court: the principle of equality of vote protects the equality of citizens, which is the presupposition of democracy and is one of the essential foundations of the state system. From this principle it follows that each vote expressed by the voter in general must count in the same way and have the same chance of success. In the proportional system, which is the constraint to which we are bound by the European indication, this principle also requires that the choice of each elector should have the same influence on the composition of the representation to be elected, because the objective of the proportional representation system is that all parties be represented in the body to be elected as close as possible to the number of votes they receive. So the measure under discussion, which is the result of the agreement between Forza Italia and PD, contradicts this fundamental principle and on the reduction of gender imbalance, is limited to establishing a principle that does not have immediate effect. We will therefore vote for the provision for a majority and because we do not want the Senate's negative vote, like that of the House, to play again as a humiliation for women. We will vote, but we are not persuaded. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u74	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, our debate has been very lively on the third discrimination of this measure, which also affects Sardinia (among other things, we discussed it a few days ago). This affair has a very painful end, for me personally and for my political strength. We wanted to lead to the end, as we did in the House of Deputies, a battle, which was nothing revolutionary: we simply asked that gender preference should be introduced for the European elections. As far as we are concerned, we would also have liked to see a two-preference reduction, so that, as in the case of the local elections, it would have been really easy to express a preference for a woman and a preference for a man. We have checked that the introduction of this mechanism, where it happened, as in the local elections, has had absolutely positive effects. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said, for example, for regional elections, where this instrument has not been used (regional laws have not been approved). I am thinking of the scandal of Basilicata, where not one woman was elected, or Sardinia, where only four were elected. We thought, therefore, that this measure would be quite simple: it was a question of introducing the possibility of expressing a preference in three, obviously with some seriousness. Madam President, I know that you share this view. Seriously, if this mechanism were introduced, the second and third (as was provided for in the original text) would be cancelled; as far as we were concerned, all three preferences had to be cancelled, because this would have had a sanctioning effect. The conclusion, however, is painful. There was talk of someone who wanted to use the issue of gender preference to blackmail the barrier. Someone wants to save their conscience, because reality is another: as Mrs Petraglia said, there are so many Don Abbondios here, even when they are fighting for women, that is, those who do not have the courage to go to the end. I repeat that it was nothing revolutionary, but a fairly simple act. We want to save our conscience so as not to say exactly what has happened, that is, for everything that concerns electoral matters and which will obviously also affect reforms, there is only the pact between the Democratic Party and Forza Italia. This is the real political point that has led to a truly shameful end to this measure. It sounds like some kind of begging to women! In fact, it introduces the possibility of expressing a preference for another sex, but then it is established that it is possible to cancel only the last preference. We know perfectly well how it works - alas - the mechanism of the three preferences; they have already been made combinations and agreements. The third is what is called "the dancer" in jargon. The annulment of the third preference, therefore, is a mockery for women. The rapporteur had conducted a battle and, therefore, I am very sorry that in the end she did not have the courage to resign from this task in order not to accept this compromise, which neither we nor women are honored. After what happened in the House of Deputies, we all hoped that the Senate would give a different signal to the country, to women and to men. Many of us have been elected on general representation, not because they have built their careers perhaps just because they cared about women. But we know perfectly well that the vulnus to the democracy of our country is the poor representation of women. We are not talking about quotas, we are talking about gender equality and, indeed, we are talking about a vulnus to democracy. Therefore, once again, women and political forces are discriminated against. We have explained in every way that there is no question of governability for the European Parliament. You, five years ago, made a coup, with Veltroni first of all, to bring the barrage rate from nothing to 4%. Today, after the two decisions of the German Constitutional Court, after several decisions - and I remember that there is also our appeal pending for five years at the Court, which I hope will continue - once again, during these important European elections, where for the first time we will really discuss the fate of Europe, you assume the responsibility of discriminating and preventing democratic pluralism! I would therefore like to focus on the third discrimination. I'm sorry to say this, but the Sardinian senators might have had to have more courage, as we will. Can we admit that we never want to change the electoral law on third discrimination? It is discrimination that affects an entire region, a people who know perfectly well that they are going to vote, but they will never have the opportunity to see their own elected one. I would remind you that there have only been cases of taking over as a result of the resignation of Sicilian Members. On this point too, there was no courage to accept a change. We were in time, but you made up that we were out of time. You know perfectly well that this is not true. We could make the changes quietly on the barrier and on the issue of women, and today, instead, this rule comes out, which - I stress - does not even deserve our vote against. We will not participate in the vote, because this rule mocks women and is the bearer of three discriminations. You know perfectly well that we should only be ashamed to have written that these rules have come into force fully since 2019 and to have accepted that people are saying that the rule of gender preference has been introduced, when nothing happens at the sanction level. I am also sorry that I signed this text, at the first signature of Senator Fedeli. I hope my name will be deleted when this legislation is adopted as a unified text. I ask, indeed, officially that my name be deleted, because once again we are writing a shameful page for our country. But when it comes to applying negative parity, then this Senate will be very ready! The negative parity, which has already been put forward by Commissioner Cottarelli, envisages raising the retirement age of women once again and intervening on the reversibility, knowing that it will affect women. I will then be able to see so many votes in favour of that equality, because for negative equality you will all be ready, while for positive equality, for gender equality, you have not even had the courage to redeem what happened in the House of Deputies! For all these reasons, my Group will not participate in the vote either, we will cross the card, because this measure is not worthy of our vote against it either! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u77	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the mountain has given birth to a mouse. The debate that accompanied this measure, in the light of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, becomes dramatically embarrassing, surreal, even for the previous week, where there was no praise of rhetoric, Madam President, but perhaps more that of hypocrisy. With good peace from Senator De Biasi, I think the thing we've learned is that hypocrisy doesn't have sex. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Maybe it's the ugliest page of this legislative overview. The relative majority party, which no longer has any polar star no longer feeds the filibustering against itself, today gives birth to an ignominious proposal of mediation that offends the intelligence, first, and the dignity, then, of its women. And in this offense he would like to involve all the majority partners. A battle of gender emancipation that is aborting in this House - allow me - for the cowardice of many women who sit in this House. [[Senator De Biasi's protests.]] I have had the chance to follow the debate animated by the women of the Democratic Party these days and I have the misfortune to see the result of that debate in a proposal that ultimately denies itself. [[Protests of some Senators of the PD Group.]] A sort of hysterical pregnancy, to remain in the genre. [[Senator De Biasi's protests.]] It comes to wonder: what is the omerty? The shame is that solidarity that, dictated by practical interests or consorts (or imposed by fears of reprisals), makes you abstain from complaints... DE BIASI (PD). Even in language there is a limit!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u78	Excuse me for interrupting, Senator Di Maggio. Senator De Biasi, Senator Di Maggio is making assessments with words from the Italian language. They are concepts on which I understand that there may be disagreement, but I cannot take his word off. I cannot take the floor to Senator Di Maggio because he expresses a different opinion from his own, Senator De Biasi. DE BIASI (PD). At least let him change his language! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Di Maggio, continue your speech. (Senator De Biasi leaves the Chamber. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u79	The shame is that solidarity that, dictated by practical interests or consorts (or imposed by fears of reprisals), makes you abstain from complaints, in this case I would say from evidence of a free judgment on facts and people. And, like, what is dignity? It is that feeling that comes from considering one's moral value as important. Because of its intrinsic characteristics this feeling is close to that of self-esteem, or self-esteem, of one's own abilities and identity. Therefore, the concept of dignity also depends on the path that each chooses to take. Here, President, I say this to the women of the Democratic Party: the path that you have indicated to us we cannot accept. We would do wrong to all those women who have spent years and years of battle on this path, but we would be wrong to our intelligence. You essentially invite us to vote on a measure which denies, in fact, itself, that it denies the reason for which it was intended. But there is more, Madam President. There is one fact that I would like to point out here, a macroscopic political fact that we do not miss: what we are going to vote on is the provision of a new majority. We understand that speed has become the must of the Democratic Party, which can change a President of the Council in the race. However, to change the majority it would be much better to consult with all those who shared that path. Senator Di Biagio anticipated this in general discussion: for the above considerations, I announce the abstention vote of our Group. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u82	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, frankly, we have a kind of uneasiness about how the debate has evolved. We have occupied a whole week of the work of this House with the discussion of an issue that we believe could be put in a completely different way. Let us look at the positive aspects. For once, we are talking - unfortunately now rare in our legislation - about a legislative initiative which was born directly from Parliament. President Fedeli's bill and that of Senator Alberti Casellati had been unified so that the Senate could legislate in a matter that we consider absolutely important and fundamental: gender balance. It is true that there are results and achievements that are not made by law or decree: Senator Micheloni said that it is an entirely Italian vice to intervene on everything with a decree. But it is also true that, when the legislator realizes that there is a delay compared to what is considered a conquest (and certainly it is to be considered a conquest a greater participation and a greater contribution to the democratic life of the country by the female gender, that excels and is present in all the sectors of our society and our life), if it is considered important and fundamental to achieve this objective and to which we impute a delay, then the legislator can intervene. But something has happened here that we really did not expect and which, in some respects, does not honour our own House. This morning, to quote a well-known film, there were women on the brink of a nervous breakdown. The fact that we do not even fully understand each other and perhaps respect each other is something that generates the problem of gender balance itself: the attitudes that we have seen here today also have a sexist attitude, because sexist attitudes are not only between subjects of different sex, sexist attitudes can also be recorded among people of the same kind, and today I felt I was living this aspect. In fact, beyond the will and the good intentions of implementing an important law, the usual cleverness and the usual mechanisms have been triggered, so everyone wanted to hang their medal on that dress, or worse, someone wanted to bring home a different result. In fact, to read the texts, both of the legislative initiative at the first signature of Fedeli and of the first signature of Senator Alberti Casellati, the idea was extremely clear: to fill what was thought to be a gap. Among the supporters, however, there were also those who saw it with good eye, not for the precise purpose of the initiative, but because in the meantime it could include in it the lowering of the barrier threshold for the European elections; there were those who, while saying that the legislative intervention was good, already thought to modify the colleges. Everyone participated in the editorial staff and in the very long hours of debate with a retrothinking. Well, we must record that we are still far behind what we think should be a social and, therefore, institutional and political conquest by the legislator, because the legislator himself, in these days of discussion and attitudes, has perhaps shown to live it differently than a pure and simple social conquest. The presence of women in the elective assemblies is still very limited and, in our opinion, should be increased. Now, since there are cultural problems, selection of the ruling class within the parties and co-opting problems, I argue that cultural changes have their own times and that these can be incredibly long. So if we think that time will make sure that there are more women in national and European parliaments in the future, I do not think that this moment will be able to see our children either. Therefore, we legislators, who have noticed this anomaly, must fill this imbalance, this deficit of democracy: ours is a system that, directly or indirectly, hinders the entry of a larger number of women into the elected assemblies. 11:17 a.m. (MAURO Giovanni followed). Well, I believe that we have a duty to push cultural change and to anticipate the need for cultural change, and to do this we must make available what we can: a law. Gender balance by law? We answer yes to this question. Some people consider it an evil - I have so much respect for this opinion - but it is a necessary evil. Politics cannot always pursue the changes of society, but must have the ambition to anticipate the processes of change, to guide them and must have the foresight to understand that all the electoral rules that go in the direction of balancing the numerical presence of the two genders in parliaments must be supported. We do not want to establish any privileges here for women, ladies and gentlemen, just as I do not intend to enter into matters of merit and ability. Who has not met, through their political activities, many militant women of a smart party, prepared, motivated and passionate, who, however, have not had the opportunity to prove their worth in Parliament or have been deliberately blocked by party secretaries? Let's not be hypocrites, colleagues. We know this isn't about merit. There are so many worthy women who are engaged in politics and outside Parliaments, from all parties, who are just waiting for this system to be undermined. In the future, when the imbalance will be filled, when the theme will be overcome, because in the country there will have been cultural growth able to guarantee naturally and physiologically a just presence of women in the elected assemblies, then all these norms on gender equality will have no reason to be, and their destiny will be that of the inevitable repeal. But until then, we have a duty to do our part here and now. This draft law, therefore, as amended by the rapporteur, must be supported, although I personally think that the solution to foresee a different operation of the law at two different times of time represents a maquillage operation that does not convince at all. We have also intervened with a modification of our ways. We wanted to anticipate what is usually a transitional rule that must be placed at the end of any legislative text, so much so that at the beginning of the measure we read that the operation will start from 2019. This is also a demonstration of the discomfort with which the rapporteur, the Government and the House have had to proceed in relation to this issue. Despite this and despite the fact that we have recorded certain behaviors that have caused us displeasure, because we are absolutely convinced that we are in the right and that we have started a path that should not necessarily be driven by a law - a truly evolved society does not need such tools - and since this is the condition, I declare my Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Companione and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u83	We greet the teachers and students who are following our works of the Liceo Scientifico. "Aldo Moro" of Reggio Emilia and the Liceo Scientifico "Majorana" - Technical Institute "Leonardo da Vinci" in Mola di Bari, to whom we welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u86	D'ALI' (NCD). Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the text as it was finally defined by the rapporteur's amendment. We had raised - not only us, but also the Ministry of the Interior - serious concerns about the desirability of intervening with an amending law on the rules of the European elections at the time when the deadline for the collection of signatures was already started and is operational. This reflection has certainly led to the temporal change of the entry into force of the forecast of absolute gender equality in the composition of the lists and suggested that only for this part-session the forecast of the mandatoryness of the gender difference with reference to the third preference should be applied. In my speech and in many speeches by my fellow Members, we have also expressed concerns about the overall merit of Parliament's intervention in terms of the composition of the lists and the obligation to express preferences in the name of a principle of absolute freedom which we believe should be protected in our democratic processes. In fact, we are absolutely convinced - even Senator Giovanardi has previously expressed similar concepts - that no limitation should be placed on the choice of parties in the composition of lists and citizens in the expression of preferences. These limitations, in fact, that today may seem positive because aimed at the promotion of some parts of the electoral body, both active and passive, can come to severely compress the manifestation of democratic freedom of the country. Ironically, perhaps with some hints that I don't want to be misunderstood, we could argue that in 2019 the norm that establishes absolute gender equality in the composition of the lists could also be for the benefit of men, given the demographic trends in our country and also given the correct and correct evolution of meritocracy in many sectors of Italian society that certainly see and rightly emerge women more than men emerge. Democracy, however, is quite another thing; political merit is quite different from professional merit or even from social merit, and it is something that is won through the battles that are waged within society and the organizations that preside over political selection. In our view, therefore, what we must ensure is equal opportunities for participation in political competition, both within the organisations provided for in the Constitution and in the stages of direct democracy always guaranteed by the Constitution, namely the elections of Members of Parliament and other institutional bodies governing the territory, as well as in this case of the European Parliament. I believe that the solution identified, which - I repeat - also meets important technical and legal requirements, which I have just described, as that of the absolute impossibility of intervening with a change in the composition of the lists at a stage in which the collection of signatures has already been started, is once again transitory. I would remind you that when ten years ago the obligation to respect a certain percentage of gender was introduced for the first time, it was decided to apply this measure only for the first two electoral rounds, precisely because it was stated that this provision was necessary because it was a promotional rule that would have its effects in the next two electoral rounds, and that it would then return to the normal regime. Already that motivation leads us to think that the normal regime is that of absolute freedom of choice, both in the composition of the lists and in the expression of preferences. We will, however, vote in favour of the draft law as outlined in the rapporteur's amendment, which was not generated by particular pressure or conditioning, but is a common sense choice with respect to opinions, all very respectable, present in this House. Among other things, it still has to be transferred to the House, so the criticality of the timing of its approval would have increased more than the date of the celebration of the electoral round for the European elections. It is, as I said, a common sense solution that also leaves in the future the possibility of making further adjustments to a law that for 2019 we consider excessively tranchant, and this in the interest of both genders, both female and male, that could be limited in their exclusive projection in presenting themselves to the electoral body. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u89	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for legislation which, in principle, had to ensure equal presence of women and men in the European Parliament. We all know, as has been pointed out, that Italy is now in the final position with regard to the balance between men and women elected in the European Parliament, with only 23-25 percent of female representation compared to male representation. The question that comes to mind is: is this the way, to set a legal obligation? The concept of equality should not lead us into deception. In fact, Article 3 of the Constitution places all citizens on a level of social equality and equality before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. But if we apply this article strictly in the electoral law, in addition to the gender quotas we should introduce quotas for young people, for different religions, for the title of study or for the IRPEF rate. What we think should be protected is the opportunity to access the lists; then the merit and the free evaluation should be up to the voter. Otherwise we risk the pathetic: for example, Finnish women's representation in the European Parliament is 62%, but this law would not allow us to achieve such a percentage. Therefore, imposing preferences by gender would appear to be a forced force. Moreover, Law No 18 of 1979 sets the minimum number of members of a list to three. And if, hypothetically, the only male on that little list was a felon, should we still give him the vote as the only male? I wanted to propose some special cases. In order to give greater dignity to this law you could have accepted our amendments: for example to limit the number of mandates, sending home a series of men who have occupied the European Parliament for too long; to clean up lists from exploitables; and not least for the introduction of transgender as another type of sexuality, because gender equality includes not only male and female. But you have rejected all the amendments. Then we must denounce the hypocrisy of the political forces, which in the House have just crushed any attempt to introduce gender preferences for Italicum, and now try to redo the trick and become more presentable with this provision to the Senate. However, it was not our perplexities that hindered the measure, but the vetoes of the duopoly Renzi-Berlusconi, when some political forces asked to lower the barrier thresholds. This, in our opinion, has irritated the hidden majority of PD and Forza Italia, which instead aim to keep low the votes of the parties that did not reach the threshold. For this reason, we have seen a follow-up of speeches in general discussion: a week of shameful obstruction by the majority [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , when in Italy there are many other needs, only waiting for the agreements under the table. And once the agreement under the table was reached, we wanted to grant for the sub-amendments only one hour. So we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation in which obstructionism is guaranteed to the hidden majority, while the guillotine places itself on the opposition, especially the real one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But let us also talk about the substance of this amendment. The rule, which had its own dignity in its original form, is emptied, refers everything back to 2019 and for this part-session provides for insignificant changes. We wonder why. We believe that this stems from the fact that the candidates have already agreed and, with the combination of three preferences, they are voting with each other in minicordate, controlling the vote of their electoral basins, like those who do so in those parties that are involved in the exchange vote. If three men or three women are voted on, we will lose only the third preference; therefore, we will go farther to the true gender balance, while the agreements and the exchange vote are protected. We're making fun of each other. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] The few partial changes to the electoral law will only take place from 2019. Then there is a doubt: why not postpone everything and then deal with more urgent matters, refrain from intervening on the electoral law in the imminence of the vote and maybe think about it immediately afterwards? But the Democratic Party could not lose face and so we come to this forcing of the times that led a mountain to give birth to a mouse. If the parties really cared about gender preference, they would have regulated it in unsuspecting times, for example by including it in the law on public funding to parties; and it is known that, when there is money for you, ethics is activated. Unfortunately, in the law on the financing of parties, there has been a considerable reduction in funding and only more than an imbalance between women and men on the European lists of more than 60% to 40%. But let us remember that public funding is bound by the adoption of a statute by the parties, which protects their internal democracy. Then we ask ourselves: why have no ties been placed on the parties to include gender equality on the electoral roll in their statutes? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Here, you have missed an opportunity or perhaps given one to the citizens: to understand what your priorities really are. Now let's move on to our priorities. Our priorities are not found in words, they are found in deeds. I remind you that the 5 Star Movement in the last parliamentary elections presented more women than men as capilists and that our elected representatives have the highest percentage of women among all political forces. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]] And this without any rule on gender preference in our selections, which we call parliamentarians. But we also have the lists that are clean as a felon, we gave up the electoral refunds and we didn't need any rules that would force us to do this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The problem is that you need the laws to impose ethics and common sense. We're past that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, after the shameful process of this bill and its pathetic conclusion, we cannot afford to vote on legislation which for most of us was superfluous, but now it is even emptied, transformed into a facade measure that bends the principle of gender representation to different interests. If it is terrible to disrespect women, it is even more terrible to exploit them and make them lose their dignity for different purposes! I had signed this bill, because it had its own dignity as it had been proposed and had its own purpose. But considering its offensive transformation, I can only withdraw it and anticipate the contrary vote of the entire 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u92	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that the measure, as it stems from the last laborious mediation of the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, may give rise to some concern and some bad mood on the part of those who firmly believe that gender equality should be guaranteed through the introduction of rigid pink quotas and equally strict gender preferences, already in the forthcoming elections of Members of the Strasbourg Parliament. This is a very respectable position; on the other hand, there is no doubt that the issue is of the utmost importance. I received further confirmation of this during my participation in the 58th session of the Commission on the status of women held under the auspices of the United Nations in New York last week. It was a precious opportunity to confront and listen to the voices of delegations from all over the world; an opportunity that led me to a conclusive reflection, which I expressed in my speech in that forum and which I would like to repeat here: my strong hope is that soon, in our country, there is no need to talk about pink quotas, to have to impose through a legislative act the participation of women in political institutions. Not because gender equality is not necessary, but because balance will be achieved in a natural and non-conflictual way. We cannot and must not end up in considerations that paint us as victims of a system anchored to the dominance of men, in which we play only a secondary and subordinate role. Instead, it is right to claim with pride how, in recent decades, the participation of women in institutional activities, in the top positions of important companies, in the political and social life of our country has constantly increased. I believe that this measure is fully in line with the efforts made to promote gender equality and women' s empowerment both on the national and on the international scene. I agree with the considerations expressed in this House that the political, civil, social and economic progress of each country cannot be without full participation and full involvement of women on the basis of equality in decision-making processes, in government choices and in educational and training processes. Nor can we overlook the European Union's position on this point. It is considered as a universal priority for the post-2015 framework to ensure the participation of women in political and economic life, to promote equal rights of all women. Unfortunately, we could not do more and better right now. As President Romani rightly pointed out yesterday, the demands linked to respect for the full legitimacy of the collection of signatures already in place for the lists that appear in the next European elections do not allow us to postpone further the approval of this measure, but they do not even allow us to change the rules of the game when the game has already begun. Today we must also support the courageous mediation of Senator Lo Moro, and consider that we are starting a process that, even if it will be fully applied only by subsequent elections, is not fair to interrupt. That is why I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u95	Mr Maturani (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, there has been a wise, passionate debate in this House these days, which has highlighted a number of points of thought with regard to the draft law presented. Different points of view that in some situations and for some representations we were rather surprised, since the draft law came out of the Commission of merit with a unanimous vote. I believe that this is the first point to be mentioned in this House. Today we have seen the final debate on this bill and representations of thought which, in order to justify different positions on the eve of the vote, not only deny in a very heavy way the vote expressed in the Commission, but even tend to throw discredit towards the thought and choices supported by the Democratic Party. I had prepared my written speech, as it is done on these occasions and then I will read it, but I cannot help but make some political considerations that arise from the debate that has taken place. It can no longer be accepted that the equal representation of women is to be played, on different interests of certain political forces, with different issues. In this debate, the forces that have declared that they will vote against the bill, which they voted in favour of in the Commission, are also those that have included in this debate a misleading element compared to the unique and compelling element that the bill represented, namely the equal gender balance in the lists for the European elections. The threshold of access is not in this bill. So I believe that we must all reflect on the mediation achieved, on the amendment proposed by the rapporteur, which I thank on behalf of the entire Group of the Democratic Party for its important, passionate, balanced and competent work. The threshold of access is not an element introduced and constitutive of this bill. So let us not say that the Democratic Party has made a downward choice by playing on the skin of women. On the skin of women and on the representation of women they have played heavily those political forces that have placed the element of the threshold of access to female representation on the lists. And this is a fact of truth. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]] After that, on the bill you can also have and have the freedom to change your thinking. As we say, we note that in the important places of the debate we share the idea of the measure and then, when we arrive in this House, we no longer share it, but not with those instrumental reasons, which we do not accept. The mediation achieved with our rapporteur's amendment finally allows for a female representation in this consultation, which will take place shortly. I remind everyone, but I don't think you need me to remind you that the measure that he had guaranteed until the previous European elections that the third preference was a gender preference has lost its effectiveness. Therefore, if we did not intervene with this bill, we would almost certainly have had a representation of our country in the European Parliament made up almost exclusively of men. In the meantime, therefore, the law that we will vote, even with the shift to 2019 of the full effectiveness of the norms contained in it, guarantees however the possibility for the women of our country to be represented in the European Parliament. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer acceptable in this House, while we are discussing the dignity of gender representation within the institutions, to afford or allow colleagues to define passionate and competent interventions, since they do not correspond to their own thinking, such as the fruit of hysterical pregnancies. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Albertini and Bonfrisco.]] Colleagues, it is no longer acceptable to think of reducing this debate and the will of women to be fully represented in the institutions to a banal struggle between girls and boys, as has been stated here during the general discussion. Today we find ourselves, a few days after the vote of the House, that - let's say it now - has recorded a defeat for politics all, with the sole exclusion of the parliamentarians of all the groups who wanted to give bold and forceful preference to their gender membership, supporting gender representation in the bill for Italicum. Now, on the eve of the second reading of Italicum, we find ourselves in the Senate voting on a text that promotes gender rebalancing in the lists for the European elections, since - as I said - the transitional rule that has so far guaranteed such representation is no longer in force. We would certainly have been pleased to be able to discuss this measure not in the run-up to the European elections, but, from what I have just mentioned, we have seen the use of this element in general discussion for instrumental purposes by so many political forces. On this point, too, we have accepted and shared the right mediation that we have arrived at. We have done this with responsibility and with the will to keep our attention to a subject that, let's be clear, is not called "quote" - let's stop calling it that! - but equal democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is true, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the second reading of the electoral bill, which this House will be called upon to vote. In the course of this reading, I very much hope - and with me my Group - that the correction of what comes from the unacceptable secret vote in the Chamber of Montecitorio will be seen in the light. Dear colleagues, we must know - but I think we all know - that Italy is far ahead of what we want to pretend to believe, and it has fully developed the fact that men and women are also citizens with political rights. There is a world, colleagues and colleagues, that will not stop, that will invest and is already investing all the sectors of our country, from public administration, companies, places and sectors of the economy, school, university, newspapers; a world that cannot and must not remain outside the classrooms of this Parliament, nor the Italian representation of the European Parliament... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. The President shall rekindle it.]] . . on the eve of a vote that proves crucial for the destinies of our country. I hope that before the vote there will be a further reflection of the political forces that have announced their vote against, because this House, the Senate and all of us would really miss an opportunity if we did not vote in favour of this text. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u98	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I unworthyly replace Senator Bisinella and will therefore give a brief explanation of vote. We will vote in favour of this measure because we have tabled a legislative proposal for the protection and support of gender representation and despite what has happened in this House we will vote because we are convinced of this. I take this opportunity to apologise, as should all Members of this House, to the rapporteur, to the President of the Commission and to all those who have actually worked to bring forward this proposal which unfortunately ended in an unworthy way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Group]] One thing is certain: if in recent days we had doubts about who had buried the problem of gender representation thanks to the secret vote in the House, today we do not know its names, but certainly its membership. And it is good to say: those who sank there and here the gender representation are the Democratic Party, Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura and Nuovo CentroDestra. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u100	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u101	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I would like to say briefly that the whole issue raised here with a great deal of talk is a matter of a single element: what is the right of this House, which has the State, to override by means of a law, the free determination of the vote? In essence, it should be asked whether in a system in which there is such a overwhelming and pervasive state, greater freedom can be guaranteed in the free expression of voting through an obligation. This is not a good page for democracy because I want to remember that all tyrannical societies, from the Republic of Plato, to the political project of Campanella, to the ideal society of Tommaso Moro, are always born from the assumption of making men equally happy. You, in order to equalize or to give more opportunity to women, are defrauding citizens, including women, of the free will that the voter has in being able to vote with his own discernment and according to his own choice. This remains in the proceedings of the Senate, because what seems to you today a conquest is a further invasion of the legislation on the right of men to self-determine themselves. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u102	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the unified text of the draft law no. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Law No 18 of 24 January 1979 laying down rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament to be held by Italy in respect of guarantees for gender representation and related transitional provisions relating to elections to be held in the year 2014 I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u103	The next item is communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1328: Provisions on the simplification, rationalisation and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors, linked to public finance. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u104	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a of the Regulation, and after hearing the representative of the Government, notes that the deadline of January 31 indicated by article 7, paragraph 2, letter f), of the law n. 196 of 2009, for the presentation of the measures related to the maneuver of public finance, has not been respected, as the bill in title is submitted to the presidency of the Senate on February 21, but that the said term, however, on the basis of numerous precedents, can be considered as authorising. It also notes that the provisions of the bill are, as a whole, functional to relaunch the agricultural and agri-food sector, in accordance with the 2013 Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document, and that they also appear to be in conformity with the content of those connected to the public finance maneuver, as enshrined in article 10, paragraph 6, of the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u105	Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill n. 1328, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force. Pending the determinations of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u108	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, not even 24 hours after remembering in this Chamber the extraordinary figure of Don Peppe Diana twenty years after his barbaric assassination by the assassins of the Camorra, today marks a further anniversary... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the House to pay particular attention. MORONESE (M5S). Thank you, President. Today there is a further anniversary that, due to its contours, is linked to the fate of those we know today as land of Don Peppe Diana, as well as as land of fires. It is also a twenty-year anniversary that should print that 20 March 1994 in the minds and hearts of all the citizens of this country, but above all those of the many reporters committed to carrying out their information work with seriousness and honesty. Twenty years ago, in fact, the TG3 journalist Ilaria Alpi and his operator Miran Hrovatin were murdered. A death occurred among the dark controversies that have always characterized the Horn of Africa, Somalia and Mogadishu that, as we would have discovered precisely thanks to the intuitions of Ilaria Alpi, was the nerve point of the arms-waste exchange that for years fueled a civil war without neighborhood behind which to hide nine zeros business. A route for international trafficking of waste of all kinds, the Somali one, that after the killing of Ilaria Alpi and Miran Hrovatin would have changed destination, identifying in Campania one of the privileged contact points, giving rise to that enormous environmental catastrophe of political, economic and mafia origin that has been the last ten-year emergency waste, whose consequences, just as we speak in this House, continue to manifest themselves with unheard of violence to the health of the citizens of Campania, and who knows what other territories that in the future maybe will be discovered, perhaps thanks to the worthy heirs of Ilaria Alpi. A drama, that bellane, that in all its crudeness, especially in the last months in which you are trying to run to the shelter with improbable laws and smoky investigations, has now made history in this country, and that despite the smoky coltre raised of the politics in the years after killing, clearly manifests the huge scandal on which the journalist of TG3 and his operator had put their hands, and on the dirty business that caused their death. Because the name of Ilaria Alpi is not just a sterile incision on the plate of a journalistic prize, today and every day we all have the duty to preserve its extreme example of research and sharing of truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u111	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I must bring back to you and to this House the concerns of the Abruzzo people and, specifically, the inhabitants of Valle Peligna and Alto Sangro for the fearful closure of the districts of the Road Police and the Railway Police. Once again, the areas concerned need the constant presence of the police forces because they are mostly tourist and mountain areas. The elimination of the road police in Castel di Sangro, in addition to damaging the same town, penalizes the entire district, Roccaraso, Rivisondoli, Pescocostanzo and all the municipalities that in winter and summer attract thousands of tourists. Then there is Sulmona, where the local road police would like to join the nearby Pratola Peligna. Sulmona is the largest and most populous municipality in the Peligna Valley and cannot miss such an important presence, which guarantees security to citizens. Always in Sulmona you want to eliminate the Polfer. I appeal to you, President, to ensure that the Minister of the Interior, even with a view to cutting public spending, does not penalise an area already so severely depressed by a structural crisis and the tragic earthquake of 2009. [[Applause from Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u112	Senator Pelino, we're gonna make sure the government is aware of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u115	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, today the Firem company in Formigine, in the province of Modena, is putting 42 workers in the middle of the road: 42 people without hope, 42 families destroyed. He had only heard of the case in August, when the news that a company had vanished from vacation was a good TV coup. The workers returned did not want to believe their eyes. Nobody warned them. A company that disappeared on the one hand, in Italy, and reappeared from another, in Poland. The 42 workers had been left outside the gates, with the sheds emptied from the machinery and the equipment made disappear: not even professional thieves would have done better. All in Poland, with shares sold to 70 percent and merged into the new company called Antigo, in case of the same owners, the Masters of Formigine. Go, continue there another ride for those who want to enrich themselves behind the backs of the new slaves. I would remind you that Polish workers are also called the Chinese of Europe. In front of FIREM the catwalk in August they all made it: institutions, politicians and unions, nobody was missing the appeal. The MP of the Democratic Party Richetti had assured that he had directly involved the then minister of relations with the French Parliament. Perhaps a timely response from the Government could still save the company and the fate of the 42 workers. As a 5 Star Movement we had submitted questions to the House, to which we have not yet had any answers. Total silence. Let us try here today to point out this tragedy further. So, if you want to send the cameras of "Dancerò", "What time does it take," "Porta a Porta", "Agorà" - so much, you know, politics is made on television - I point out that today in Modena, in court, will be present the lawyers and representatives of the firm FIREM to present the accounts, with the hope that it will not declare the company's bankruptcy. This would mean a disaster for the workers involved who are asking for answers: 42 citizens are being mugged, robbed, ridiculed, debased, humiliated, raped. Gentlemen, do we have answers for them? Used and thrown workers. Gentlemen, television says that President Renzi will give 80 euros to those who, despite having a job, earn little; but to these 42 workers, to those desperate who lost the job, President Renzi what does he offer? The workers of FIREM and we of the 5 Star Movement still ask those who have to, to make light and clarity and we ask how it is possible that a relocation takes place in this way, that is, taking care of the laws in force in the matter that well regulate these things. But, above all, we ask how it is possible to do all this by leaving in Italy more than 7 million euros of debts between suppliers, induced and workers. We want to know this and I stress the term "we want to." We want to know if anyone is really interested in restoring seriousness, fairness and, above all, respect for workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u118	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, my country is being cut off from the nets. They make a hole and shove it under the ground. This is the threat to Tino, 60 years old, activist of the committee of Pozzolo Formigaro (Alessandria) against the Third Pass. Last week he had gone to Cascina Ramellotta, along with another activist of the committee of Novi Ligure, where some workers of Lande srl were resetting the more than 4 kilometers of fence divelti from numerous women and men on the day of 22 February. To threaten in dialect Tino was precisely a worker of Lande srl, a society already mentioned in this Chamber, precisely in an interview of 2010, where they referred to information of the ROS who cared for this company for relations with the Camorra. Tino is certainly not a person to be intimidated, but that threat of death is a threat against the thousands of women and men who have been fighting, for years, in defense of their own land and is yet another symptom of how many bad companies, working in contracts of the Third Pass, think they can do the good and bad time in a climate of protection that the political class provides them. Therefore, all our solidarity and closeness to Tino and the activists No TAV of the Third Pass, and we hope that all politicians, administrators, as well as the prefect of Alexandria, who incessantly invoke the isolation of events, will do the same. Violent is who thinks he can threaten a 60-year-old man with the only fault of lovingly defending the land in which he lives and has always been in the front row in the initiatives of the movement, whether it is to prepare a polenta or cut fences, in any case all actions inspired by the Gandhian struggle. Finally, I want to escape a doubt from this House. The No TAVs of the Third Pass are not afraid, they are not intimidated and today have an additional reason to continue to drop the fences of Pozzolo Formigaro. With all of them we wait for you on April 5 in Arquata for a great popular march to the Radimero yard and then all together you will have to return to the Cascina Ramellotta. We win against the mafias. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u121	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, it is in 2011 that the Grande Pompei Project was launched and only a few months ago the approval of the Cultural Decree, which, in Article 1, provides for the acceleration with the establishment of the Grande Pompei Unit and the approval of a strategic plan that also constituted a specific Superintendence for the archaeological assets of Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabia and the establishment of a fund "Mille giovani per la cultura": an extraordinary and urgent programme, a great program of conservation interventions, prevention, maintenance and restoration. Yet, the collapses continue and the thefts follow. One in January: a fragment of an ivy on a yellow background, which was then returned. Another was discovered only a few days ago, thanks to the tour of an overseer: the fresco depicting the portrait of Artemis in the house of Neptune. Then, the Minister has an urgent budget of EUR 6 million for private lighting and surveillance. We continue in this country to proceed for emergency, for extraordinary projects, when instead it is always and only the ordinary management to be regrettably forgotten and deprived always. In Pompeii we only have 180 cameras, which leave vast areas uncovered. Simple rules, such as the ban on entry with the backpack, are not respected. We only have 138 keepers, distributed in five shifts: less than half of those needed. This will be done by the competent Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u124	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, I am also pleased that Mr Ferri is here, because I want to draw attention to the subject of children and mafia. My thoughts go to Coco, the three-year-old killed on 19 January, rather than to Domenico, also three years old, killed on Monday in Palagiano, Puglia, by a rain of bullets. Together with him the parents and the other two children, the two little brothers aged six and seven, were saved: the youngest - they tell us the chronicles - fell down on the seat and closed his eyes and then told his aunt: I pretended to die. The thought, as well as to them, goes also to the other little ones who over the years have been killed, slaughtered, for the sole fault of being children of parents linked to mafia clans: a continuous horror, a really dangerous growing, a situation that must affect and engage the whole Parliament, and also the Government, for two reasons. The first is because we face the issue of legality, which is the real emergency of this country, being the precondition for any real and lasting change. The second reason concerns children: it concerns the protection and the duty that the State has, in all its articulations, to guarantee children the right to live well, in serenity and therefore in safety, regardless of who their parents are, and not to die at the hands of a mafia. However, we must ask ourselves not only about dead children and how to prevent others from dying, but also about the fact that we have a duty to do something for the two little brothers of Domenico of 6 and 7 years who have saved themselves. They saved themselves, it's true, they're alive, they survived, but I think the memory of those shots, the image of the mother and father killed, the fear they had in those moments will be something indelible in their lives. As adults, as legislators, as those who have the responsibility before this country, we have the duty to seek together answers that go beyond the sphere of individual intervention and perhaps go beyond that moment of pain and horror that each of us feels in the face of such events. That is why I believe - for example - it is useful that the subject of mafia and children should be able to find joint work of the bicameral parliamentary committees on mafia and childhood, knowing of course what the different competences of the two Commissions are. I think it is useful at least for a first meeting, a first session, to define, in some way, the work of the two Commissions (and not only, because the subject also concerns the Government), a common path, in order to really intervene, to reason - not simple fact - and to define what can be the new norms, such as behavior and politics also at local level, so that what has happened in recent years and last Monday is no longer happening. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u127	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I am aware of the risk of becoming tedious, I rise for the umpteenth time on the matter concerning the situation of the workers of group 6GDO srl, a company in my region and in particular of my Province, Trapani, for which I have urged insistently and continue today to ask the Minister of the Interior to answer my question 4-01685 on 12 February. This continuous and now almost daily obstinacy in asking the Minister for feedback on the situation of the company, whose property has been confiscated and transferred to the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated to organized crime, is due to the situation now become of real drama for the workers of the group, because, if not defined in the next few hours, with the arrival of the terms of law fixed in these days, the company will go into liquidation. In addition to having submitted the question, in recent weeks I have simultaneously contacted several times the Ministry of Labour, with which I am in constant contact, which is handling the procedure of the Cassa Integrazione for the workers of the group. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to call for the answer to the question, repeating once again that, despite the awareness that the economic crisis has generated job losses everywhere, it is no longer possible to prolong an answer on the future of the honest workers involved, who continue to risk paying a double-high price. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u130	CIRINNA' (PD). Madam President, I take the floor not for an end-of-session speech, but for a personal matter, for a collective matter, to stigmatize what has happened - I am pleased to do so during your Presidency, because I am sure you would not have allowed it - during the speech by Senator Di Maggio. I hope that the few colleagues present in the Chamber of Civic Choice for Italy will report my words to Senator Di Maggio and also to Senator Lanzillotta. We learn from President Lanzillotta that the use of the term "codardo" is not an insult, but is part of a normal and possible vocabulary. If you open Wikipedia you find it written that coward is who flees for fear in the face of a danger or a risk, failing his duty. Then I want to know from Senator Di Maggio, who defined all the senators of the PD of cowards for how they acted on the painful and difficult mediation of the text that we just voted on, where it was when the many women of the PD were fighting for rights; where it was when we made appeals to the TAR [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; where President Lanzillotta was when, in the Roman Juniors, there was only one woman sitting and we had recourse to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u131	Senator Cirinna, by definition and rule of this House, the Presidency, while presiding, cannot be contested. That's not fair. I therefore invite you to consider, when addressing a senator and a senator in their capacity as senators within the House, that the attitude is different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u132	I was wrong, you're right, and I apologize. Therefore, precisely because we cannot be challenged in the role of Presidency - and I will ask for this, together with all the colleagues of the Democratic Party to President Grasso - I wonder if Senator Lanzillotta, when she presides, does so for the Civic Choice Group or if she presides for everyone. Since "codardo" can be said, then I take the liberty to say that coward will be Senator Di Maggio and coward will be Senator Lanzillotta. It's okay! But I would also like to point out that none of us think that she is cowardly or Senator Lo Moro, who has suffered terribly for this text, nor President Finocchiaro, nor even my colleague De Biasi, who has been apostrophated as the one who has done a certain intervention because she suffers from a hysterical pregnancy. If this sexist language takes hold in this House too, we will never win the battle for equality, because we will be overwhelmed by this prevailing masculinism! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casaletto]] I hope, but I am sure he will, that President Grasso will want to stigmatize what has happened. It is useless that we fight in the country if even here these attitudes are endured, suffered and tolerated! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u133	I am obliged, as well as the responsibility, to specify that Senator Di Maggio does not belong to the Civic Choice Group for Italy, but to the For Italy Group, and that Senator Di Maggio assumes all the responsibility for what he said. This obviously means that the Presidency takes note of this and that it will carry out appropriate checks on the language and respect of the rules of this Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u136	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to call for two questions, 2-00106 and 2-00107, which I tabled on 23 December last year and 2 January, respectively, on the issue of equal opportunities. Since the Letta Government had not appointed a Minister for Equal Opportunities, these questions were addressed to the President of the Council. Even the Renzi Government has not appointed a dedicated minister, and I understand that the delegations for competences have not yet been assigned. Therefore, the competence on equal opportunities remains with the President-in-Office of the Council, who does not lack Undersecretaries to the Presidency of the Council who can respond to these two acts, even if I would like him directly to do so. Interrogations refer to a document drawn up by the Department for Equal Opportunities in collaboration with the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office in respect of respect for sexual orientation in the communication; this document contains guidelines for a communication that respects sexual orientation. Since its contents presuppose situations that Italian law does not foresee or even prohibits, such as marriage between persons of the same sex, adoption by couples of the same sex and other cases, I believe it is important that the Government provides an answer on this matter also in order to understand its orientation in this field, i.e. if we go towards a total marriage of gender ideology both in the framework of guidelines and legislation, and in the practical implementation, and of legislation, or if we intend to comply, at least provisionally, with the laws currently in force. Since I have asked at least three times to the previous Government to carry out such interrogations, I would like to point out that the change of government does not make these answers less important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u137	I greet the students and students of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle scienze), Queen Elena of Acireale, in the province of Catania, whom I welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u140	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, last Thursday 13 March, the World March for endometriosis was held in Rome, a silent and dignified march in which many people, not only women, have paraded through the streets of the city, although the disease affects only them. Endometriosis is a chronic disease of the internal part of the uterus that affects one woman in ten; only in Italy three million women are affected, but few know that they are sick, being this pathology little known. This leaves us particularly disappointed, because the silence around this disease is truly terrifying. This lack of knowledge also leads to the discovery of the disease in too long a time, which means that you could receive treatment not in time; it is estimated a delay of about nine years from the appearance of the first synthesis and diagnosis. Too many women for too long therefore remain misunderstood in their evil. On 22 November, the 5 Star Movement tabled a written question on this subject, to which we have not yet had an answer. We have asked the Ministers of Health, Labour and Equal Opportunities to unanimously declare endometriosis a chronic and crippling disease at the clinical, social and occupational level. We have asked for information and awareness of those who ignore the consequences of such an affection. The absolute silence to date: the Ministers have not yet responded. We asked for the inclusion of endometriosis in the national table of disabling diseases, because it is a disease that needs to be known to be recognized in time. I therefore ask the answer to question 4-01159, which we have tabled. The State must guarantee the right to health, the right to care, the right to information, but above all to prevention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u141	Senator Donno, we will request the answer to your question. Colleagues, pending the determination of the Conference of Leaders, the sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.29 p.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u142	Colleagues, let's resume our work. The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 3 April. This morning, after reading the timetable, the sitting will be closed, in connection with the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft law on provinces and metropolitan cities. The examination of the measure will begin in the Assembly at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 25 March, starting at 3 p.m. For the discussion of the measure, the time frame has been allocated for a total of 11 hours, assuming that the Commission has completed the examination. The explanations of vote will begin at around 16.30 on Wednesday 26, so the final vote will take place at approximately 18.00. The discussion of the decree-law on the return of capital held abroad, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, will follow. In order to allow for the conclusion of the measure, which expires on 30 March, voting will take place on Thursday 27 and, if necessary, on Friday 28. The schedule of the week from 1 to 3 April includes the follow-up to the draft law amending the rules on personal protective measures, the discussion of motions on oil research in the Adriatic Sea and on the MUOS telecommunications system. It will also examine ratifications of international agreements, draft laws on the abuse of professions and admission to recruitment into the armed forces, as well as motions on the Saharawi people and initiatives to support the territories bordering Switzerland. On Thursday afternoon, 3 April, the question time will take place with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy. Finally, I would like to remind you that on the morning of Thursday 27 March a ceremony will be held in the Senate Chamber on the occasion of the World Theatre Day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u143	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of January, February and March 2014: - Drawing of Law No. 1212 and related - Provisions on metropolitan cities, provinces, unions and mergers of Municipalities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u144	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new calendar of the Assembly until 3 April 2014: [[Thursday 20 March ant. h. 9,30 - Following draft laws n. 1224 and related - Gender balance elections European Parliament (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on ddl n. 1328 - Competitiveness agricultural sector (related to the financial maneuver) Thursday 20 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, March 25 pom. h. 15-21 - Drawing of law n. 1212 and related - Provinces and metropolitan cities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 4, return of capital held abroad (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 30 March 2014) Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 15 Thursday 27 " pom. h. 15 Friday 28 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Amendments to bill No 1212 and related (Provinces and metropolitan cities) should be tabled by 12 noon on Tuesday 25 March. The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 4, return of capital held abroad) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. [[- Follow-up to draft law No 1232 and related - Amendments to personal protective measures (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motions on oil research in the Adriatic Sea - Follow-up to motions on satellite telecommunications system MUOS - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Commission - Drawing of law n. 471 and related - Abuse of professions - Drawing of law n. 733 and related - Admission to recruitment Armed forces - Motion n. 129, Vaccari, on initiatives in favour of the Saharawi people - Motion n. 214, Bitonci, on initiatives in support of territories bordering Switzerland Tuesday 1 April ant. h. 11-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 2 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 3 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 3 April pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to art. 151-a of the Regulation to the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1212 (Provinces and metropolitan cities) (11 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 8 hours, of which: PD 1 h 45' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 09' M5S 55' NCD 48' Mixed 40' LN-Aut 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 33' PI 32' GAL 32' SCP 30' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 4, return of capital held abroad) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 25' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' PI 20' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u147	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we feel that this timetable is not good. We reiterate the fact that the Senate of the Republic works from Tuesday afternoon until Thursday morning, which in no company in Italy, and perhaps in the world, happens. We therefore kindly ask colleagues of good will to continue the work as follows. We are calling for the motion of no confidence in the Minister for Labour and Social Policy in Poletti to be called into question for the afternoon sitting on Friday 21 and, again at the same sitting, for the motion of no confidence in Mr Guidi's Minister for Economic Development. Then, Saturday 22, we ask to question, in the afternoon sitting, the motion of censure against the Undersecretary for cultural goods and activities Barracciu and, in the afternoon sitting, the motion of censure against the Deputy Minister of Interior Bubbico. Furthermore, Madam President, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are clear and are provided for in Rule 151- bis that once a month the so-called question time takes place. Since it did not take place in March, as a 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, we ask that the Government, in the person of the President of the Council, Mr Renzi, come to respond and clarify its position regarding the use by it of an apartment located in the City of Florence, with particular reference to its relations with the Florentine entrepreneur Carrai and to any contracts or works carried out by the latter for the Florentine municipal administration. In order not to interfere with the Senate's work, I would ask you, Madam President, and all colleagues to always commit Friday and Saturday days to carry out other work. I ask you, therefore, always kindly, to include in the afternoon sitting on Friday 28 the motion of distrust against the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Lupi, in the afternoon session always on Friday 28 the motion of censure against the Undersecretary for Infrastructure and Transport Del Basso De Caro, and in the afternoon session on Saturday 29 the motion of censure against the Undersecretary for Health De Filippo. Finally, we propose the discussion of motions, first of all those relating to hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea, whose discussion has been moved again, because by now the word 'urgent' is improperly used also by this Senate of the Republic. We therefore call, always with the good will of all our colleagues, for the debate on motions for resolutions on oil research in the Adriatic Sea to be held in the afternoon sitting on Monday 24 March. Given that the debate on these motions has been postponed for almost a year, perhaps it is time to talk about it. After that, Madam President, we are calling for the motions on the MUOS satellite telecommunications system to be finally discussed in the afternoon sitting on Monday 24. In particular, motion 1-00125 was tabled in August 2013, so for this we will light the candle of the first year. In particular, as these are serious health-related issues for the citizens of Niscemi and Sicilians in general, we ask that we speak about them and that the political forces, in a peaceful manner, take responsibility for a vote in favour or against. We are only asking for some common sense and for the motion to be voted in favour of by everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u150	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to make a point about the speech you have read, which confirms what has happened in the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. I'd like to keep a specification to the record. With reference to the draft law on provinces and metropolitan cities, you have certainly specified where the examination in the Commission has been completed, so it would be understood that without the examination in the Commission the measure would not arrive in the Chamber. I would, however, like to point out that, if the Commission were not to complete its examination, it would not trigger the so-called quota.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u151	Senator Calderoli, I'll tell you right away that it's what you say.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u154	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, just for a matter of courtesy, I would like to announce that I will ask for a counter-proof of the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u155	In the meantime, we know that we must first vote on the proposal by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u158	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to clarify more precisely what Senator Calderoli is saying. The Conference of Leaders concluded that, if the Commission were not to finish its work and not to give the rapporteur the mandate, the Group Leader would again be convened to decide at which point the calendar of the Assembly would be. This was the exact conclusion of the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u159	We have perfected everything so that it is very clear what the Conference of Leaders has decided.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u162	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, I take the opportunity offered by Mr Santangelo's speech to make an observation and, in particular, to express a clear and marked disagreement with the idea that the work of the Member is measured by the number of hours or days spent in the Chamber and in the Commission. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Mr Santangelo obviously has a very miserable conception of the work and the parliamentarians, considering that for an hour spent here it would take at least four times as much contact with the country and study of what is to be examined here. His idea of our work would assume, referring to the activity of a professor, that he should take lessons without having prepared it, or, referring to the activity of a lawyer, that he should go to court without having studied the case. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] I consider this view of our work, which is also widely taken up by the press, as a serious distortion of Parliament's concept and its relationship with civil society. I therefore believe that it is very important that we ourselves first stress the importance of everything - and it is very much so - we do every week, every day, even outside this House. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u164	Although I would not like to open a debate on this, I give you the floor for a few minutes. Then we have to vote, because, as you will have noticed, it is 1:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u165	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, of course I respect the position expressed by Senator Ichino. He, however, must not come in here to snatch easy applause, because his conception of work is very small. [[Protests from SCpI and PD Groups]] You have to explain it to the Italians! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Manconi (PD). Fordist!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u166	Senator Santangelo, please pay attention to the words you use. I insist on this with everyone in this House. Each of us has an opinion in its own language and worthy of this House. Please, Senator Santangelo, and finish your speech. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, let me tell you what the problem is with using the small word. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We could open a debate on Italian vocabulary, but I don't want to. Please finish your speech. SANTANGELO (M5S). I was saying that Senator Ichino's concept of the work of this House is really small. He should be confronted with the citizens and check the results of his conception of the work of this House! [[Protests from SCpI, PD, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Ask the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u167	I put to the vote the overall proposal, presented by Senator Santangelo, to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings and to hold sessions on Friday and Saturday. It's not approved. Since Senator Santangelo has already made the request for the counter-test, I order the doors to be closed. We proceed to the counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The calendar of proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-214.ana.u168	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
