ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure (9:34 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general debate continued during yesterday's afternoon sitting. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I do not want Scalfarotto and Pizzetti... [[Brusio.]] I am sorry, Madam President, to ask you whether you can stop the passing of time at my disposal, because with this chaos I really cannot intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u10	Of course, Senator Arrigoni, you are right: please ask the House to lower its voice. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u11	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). So I do not want the undersecretaries Pizzetti and Scalfarotto present here, but I will turn to Renzi, even if he is absent - as often happens - as he does, who, when he is present in this Chamber, turns to the citizens media to seek empathy, bypassing the senators. So, President Renzi, the bill of constitutional reform sets itself important objectives, in part shared for us by the North League, a movement that is the true, constant and coherent reforming soul of the country, not swinging as happened in the last three lustres for its party, the PD. The overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the costs of functioning of the institutions and the revision of Title V of the Constitution were objectives also present in the reform of 2005, the "devolution" which, however, the party of the DS of that time, which today is called PD, through a powerful campaign of political exploitation, invited the citizens to reject with the referendum of June 2006. As Senator Calderoli said on Monday, devolution - compared to the basic bill of the Renzi-Boschi couple - was written much better, both in terms of form and content (and many have subscribed to this statement). It also lowered age in order to become a Member or Senator, with a sensitivity and attention to young people who have not found room here. It is worth remembering, for the sake of the record, that you yourself, then president of the Province of Florence, did not escape the role of party leader to push your voters to reject the reform, which the Italians did, except in the territories of Lombardy and Veneto. And so, ten years have been lost: the detractors of that time also spoke of mockery for the Italians, because the decrease of parliamentarians - which consisted of a significant 25% cut - would not have taken place immediately, but only after a parliamentary term, starting in 2011. It's crazy: it's 2014 and we're still here thinking about these cuts, but you, Renzi, want to discriminate. You, today's PD colleagues, were the main detractors of that reform: you were talking about the demolition of the Constitutional Charter, institutional confusion, the risk of authoritarian drift and other similar amenities. Today, instead, with Renzi - except a few, courageous voices outside the choir - you endorse everything, at the cost of ingesting Maalox tablets against the voltostomaco that grabs you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Assist as silly servants to the will of the party's master, rather than the masters of two parties, to demolish the Constitution with the support of the good press in total silence, or almost, of constitutionalists and men of culture who do not see intent to subscribe appeals to the head of the State, also silent and therefore complicit in the total absence of the now distant oceanic demonstrations of the square. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] This House, as Mr D'Anna said yesterday, is full of courtiers and regigodas, who are afraid of losing their minds. Yet, the basic text of the bill, imposed by the duo Renzi-Boschi, even after the approval of the agenda Calderoli, had such a great deal of bad rules to turn the constituent Fathers in the tomb: as the return to an unacceptable centralism; as the cancellation of the so-called federalism at variable speed; as the excessive number of senators of law and appointed, 63, to be removed from any direct or indirect control by the people; as the relegation of the upper Chamber to a place emptied of functions and therefore little more than a railway post-work. Bad provisions, so much so that many prefer a more dignified choice for the Senate itself, that is, its suppression. Fortunately, the wise work in the Commission under the direction of the rapporteurs has made it possible to improve the text: giving the exclusive legislative power of certain competences to the Regions, establishing once and for all who do what they do; giving the possibility that some legislative functions at the head of the State can be attributed to the Regions, provided that the same are in balance of budget, in accordance with the virtuous principle of subsidiarity; introducing for the first time in the Constitution the "standard costs and requirements," which promoting the conditions of efficiency will allow the full implementation of fiscal federalism blocked by Monti in 2011; and much more significant. But what the Commission has done - as many have pointed out in these four days of general discussion - is not enough and perhaps already since next week, with the amendment phase, it will be an important task for this House to exercise its prerogative: the legislative power that is not of the Government, dear Renzi! [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] There are still many, too many things that are not right, open problems that need to be solved: like the number of Members left incomprehensiblely unchanged, despite the title of the reform you speak of reducing Members, I repeat, Members and not just senators. There are also other very sensitive issues, such as direct electivity, Article 117, which deals with the powers of the regions, which are still too small, and the dangerous supremacy clause of the State, or the high quorum for the repealing referendums or the draft laws of popular initiative, to the point of reaching issues more suited to the palates of refined constitutionalists such as the transitional rules. Mr Maran tried to convince us by quoting German efficiency with the Bundesrat on the good side of second-level electivity. However, he was careful to remember that Germany is a federal republic and that the Bundestag, the Lower House, is elected with the proportional system. And it seems to me that the Italicum in the House includes something different, undemocratic. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] There is therefore a need to change from the direct electoral system, also in order to encourage public participation, the only way to restore confidence to citizens in the institutions. In this sense it should also reflect all the positive experience of the direct election of the mayor since 1993, in place of a previous unknown figure of mayor then chosen only by the City Council. But to observe you, Renzi, a skilled communicator and manipulator who turns to the citizens by banning senators as those who do not resign that there is no more compensation, it would appear that there is no room for further changes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The divisive point is that what for the Renzi-Boschi couple is perhaps the establishment of reform (a Senate of nominated without compensation) cannot be for many of us who care about the fate of democratic institutions that, as such, must encourage public participation and not push it away. Mr Gasparri, whom I do not see, we are not following you in your logic: we are still voting to prevent the failure of the reform. It is not enough to make reforms regardless. These must be of content and quality. If they are despicable, you try to improve them at any cost, otherwise it freezes them, with good peace of Sisyphus, dear colleague Casini. On the contrary, for a whim, we have not understood whether yours, Renzi, of Minister Boschi or of both, is likely to make a mess. We cannot repeat very serious errors such as those committed with the Delrio reform that intervened on the Provinces, without eliminating them, but only changing the system of election. Also because the Constitution is at stake here, with the risk of heavy and incalculable damage that would fall on the country for several years. As were the Provinces with Delrio, today for her Renzi are the elected senators who receive the allowances the new scapegoats to sacrifice to the demagogic and populist wave that scourges Italy of which she is incomparable and indisputable maximum interpreter. After the Consulta had rejected two decrees-laws issued by Monti on the matter, she recently co-opted in the role of Premier completed the project of institutional butchery started with Letta with Delrio. The result? A reform that represents the first attack on the local autonomy, where President and Provincial Council are no longer elected by the people, but by the various municipal councils, which express themselves behind the indications of the parties. An attack on direct democracy, just like today's constitutional bill. Delrio is also a confused measure, with entangled rules, which does not deburrocraticize, and rather increases confusion about the functions and management of services at local level, creating new problems for businesses and citizens. The Delrio does not guarantee savings, but the transfer of personnel and functions to other territorial authorities, with their taking over in all relationships, and will have a cost both in economic terms and in organizational terms. I would remind you that it was our Budget Committee, but also the Court of Auditors, which was not heard. And then I emphasize that the Delrio reform has been preceded by a three-year period during which the Provinces have seen drastically cut the resources destined to schools, roads, to the defense of the soil, precisely because of the various, messy and anti-institutional norms that have followed since 2011 - the "salva Italia" and then the spending review - aimed at emptying the provincial institutions, affecting the provision of the minimum services, such as the heating of the schools and the shoveling of the snow; the latter in the North is a real problem, especially in the mountainous Provinces of Sondrio and Belluno. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the result of the Delrio reform? That at least 50% of the Provinces already have the budget in disrepair today, perhaps almost all will be in the same condition in 2015; this is due to the scarcity of resources available, even after the last cuts made by Decree-Law No 66, that of the famous 80 euros in pay envelope, which will make critical, if not impossible, the exercise of the delegated functions. I ask a question: after the adoption of this constitutional bill, which the Provinces eliminate them, what will happen in the exercise of the functions of the vast area, which will remain suspended between the regional and the municipal level, generating disservices for citizens and businesses? What are we gonna do? Without any intermediate entity do we want to transfer all functions upwards to the Regions, or downwards to the Municipalities? Do we want to arrive shortly at the paralysis of the country, or seriously tackle the node of the subjects of exercise of the functions of the vast area? I say at once that the North League does not want this power to be attributed to the State, but if anything to the Regions, who know and can take into account the particular connotations of their territory. And it is certainly in this area (other than the ineffective activity of Cottarelli!) that you can achieve substantial savings of expenditure that Renzi is desperately looking for, also because the corrective manoeuvre is now at the door. How? Going to reorganize all the functions of vast area through a new subject of connection between Region and Municipalities, where they could converge the current Provinces and all the intermediate agencies like Mountain Communities, consortia, parks, and the thousands of public societies participated. The negative experience of Delrio, who will soon call his Government into question to put corrective measures, should suggest caution and attention; also because if we reason on the combined arrangement of the constitutional bill with Italicum, the subject of the Nazarene pact, we risk bringing the country to a regime. Italicum provides for the raising of the thresholds for coalition barriers or on their own harming the principle of representativeness, provided for in the Constitution. The Italicum reports in itself those two flaws of the Porcellum that the Constitutional Court has rejected: the excessive majority prize for which in coalition a party even 20% or less can achieve 53-54 percent of the seats and does not foresee the preferences because they remain, albeit reduced, the blocked lists. Colleagues, it does not seem to you that there is a lack of democracy in an architecture of the State that delivers into the hands of a party of relative majority, but minority in the country, the presidencies of the Council, the Republic, the Chamber and the prevailing composition of the CSM and the Consulta. Our conscience and institutional responsibility should lead us to make reforms for the good of the nation and of Italians who deserve serious proposals and content and do not approve obnoxious for Group loyalty and discipline, still the day before yesterday invoked by you, Premier Renzi. The architecture of the State that we are called to redesign must be designed and realized regardless of who is currently at the top. It must be designed for the future of the country, also because, Prime Minister Renzi, history teaches that the political power lies on a rotating wheel. Show yourself, accept to improve the reform and then focus on the real problems of the country that cannot be eluded by your government for so long. I'm talking about work, exodus, taxes, public debt and the immigration emergency. They are all necessary actions, even if not sufficient, to enable the hegemony of a leader and his party to be built on solid foundations in the long term. Know Renzi that he will not be able to enchant the Italians for long with his dynamism, with his becero populism, even these hours, which goes to mark on certain common places, but in a selective way, therefore without questioning other places. It will not be able to enchant and guarantee the consent of the Italians through decrees similar to that of the 80 euros, unrepeatable because it is a measure in deficit due to lack of resources. Not only will it have to take into account the rejection of the request for the postponement of one year of the budget balance, from 2015 to 2016, as well as the demand for additional efforts to respect the Stability and Growth Pact, but also its Achilles heels, derived precisely from membership of the PD, will soon emerge, as the Panebianco editorialist, to whom goes the solidarity of our Group for the serious intimidating acts of which was the subject of the day before yesterday, will have to take into account the rejection of the request for postponement of one year of the budget balance, from 2015 to 2016, as well as the request for additional efforts to respect the Stability and Growth Pact. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The first is the tax burden which will not fall, but which has already increased and will probably increase again. For the left it is a taboo to lower taxes and this while knowing that the excess of taxation prevents any economic recovery and is the main cause of the economic decline of our country, with loss of jobs. The second heel of Achilles is immigration that with Mare nostrum, the repeal of the crime of clandestineness and the new reception plan for the management of refugees is now out of control. Premier Renzi, don't pull too hard because you risk ending up like Monti, if not worse. She, who has risen to power with arrogance, risks being the victim of her own self-righteousness, authoritarianism, her ego and narcissism and, just like Mario Monti, incompetent premier, at the beginning considered, except by us of the Northern League, the Saviour of the Homeland, is putting it all to end in oblivion. You have the aspiration to be one man in command, as my colleague Micheloni said, but, in doing so, you may soon find yourself one man. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Premier Group]] Renzi, this project, although improved, does not work, does not innovate and brings the country into a dangerous ridge. Don't be stubborn: have the courage to accept the proposals of the North League to ensure that the reform becomes a radical and true change of the country, with direct and positive effects for the lives of citizens and businesses, who - otherwise - will not stand by and, in the face of blindness, rather than end up in the abyss, will try to self-determine themselves and at that point, behind the Veneto that has already taken the road to the referendum of independence, will soon follow Lombardy, where I live. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, I invite you to conclude. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Every year Lombardy gives the State 50 billion euros and the Lombards are tired of dealing with a predatory state. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u12	Senator Maurizio Rossi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u13	Madam President, first of all, since I am at the centre of the Chamber, I would remind my colleagues that I have joined the Mixed Group. I thank my colleagues for Civic Choice for the Italy that evicted me and the Mixed Group for having welcomed me with great efficiency. My movement is called Liguria Civica and is a component within the Mixed Group. I think it is right to look at this reform from the point of view of the small regions. I have heard many speeches and heard many very interesting speeches from various parties. In the meantime, let me remind you that Senator Chiti said yesterday that we are taking the democratic highway in the opposite direction. The only politician who has managed to do so for real until today was the President of the Liguria Region, Burlando, coming down from the Erzelli. It is an operation among the most discussed in Genoa, in which - we remember - there were as many as 250 million of the savings bank of Genoa and Imperia. Unfortunately, we know what problems he's bringing. Burlando was coming down that hill. You don't know exactly what he was doing that Sunday morning: he was definitely on a tour to check the desertification of that area. As I said, this is one of the most discussed operations. Burlando is a great governor sponsor of this reform and who knows that this was not really a premonitory sign. We see, however, precisely in fact, how much passion with which, to date, the representatives of the Italian Regions participate in the State-Regions Conference. I went to take 17 minutes of the 2013 assemblies and analyzed the presences of each Region. The average of 20 regions is 7.8 last year. Think: out of 17 assemblies. As for Liguria, out of 17 assemblies the Region participated only in nine. President Burlando came only once in a year and the other eight times he delegated councilmen. Eight times, however, Liguria was absent (not that the other regions are much better). There's a first big problem. I speak of Liguria as an example, but also because I am very concerned about the effects of this reform on my territory. The example therefore concerns all small regions. The first major problem is the electoral system, which is different from one region to another. Some have only named with party primary systems, others still have the list of nominations. In Liguria we must change the electoral law: we talk, but nothing concrete is done to change it. We're eight months away from voting. We at Liguria Civica have written an electoral bill that we have sent to all parties, not only present in the current regional body, but, of course, also to the 5 Star Movement, which contends with the Democratic Party the leadership of the regional party. You are absent in Liguria, you are not participating in the debate. I invite you to do so. You are the greatest political force of the Region and you are totally absent, both as opposition in the Region, and in the processes leading to the next regional election. This is true even though Liguria is the home of Beppe Grillo: therefore, the thing marvels even more. It is clear to everyone that the new regional electoral law will be launched (or boycotted) by a Council made by suspects, by political groups all involved in the scandal of crazy spending. Including the Democratic Party that did not investigate, but was involved in the scandal of crazy spending, so much so that it returned its own amount to avoid consequences. Many do not want to pass a new electoral law precisely because they have already guaranteed a place in the President's famous list and, as a result of these promises, variable majorities are formed. Clamorous is the support to President Burlando of the New Ligurian Right Center that in Liguria should be called VCD, Old Right Center, for the subjects who represent him and for the system of subjection to the constituted power. The Battle of the Democratic Party's primaries for presidential candidates has triggered an internal battle in the Democratic Party. President Burlando, who clearly sponsors his most faithful (or faithful) councilman to whom he wants to pass the scepter, uses his power to help those who support the primary his favorite city council member. There is the replacement of presidents in subsidiaries and the dozens of promises to the Ligurian municipalities are not counted. On the other hand, the clear example occurred during the primary election of the regional secretary of the Democratic Party (battle Lunardon-Cavarra, just to remember). We have witnessed, even, the strong and manifest participation of the Ligurian UDC, for the candidate of Burlando. I repeat that we are talking about Democratic Party primary and the UDC was on the field for a part of the Democratic Party primary. That UDC character is now vice president of the Liguria Regional Council and recently left the UDC to join the Democratic Party, in the Burlando area. He promised the mayors - as we said - places in the controlled companies, promises of places in the list, places to be city councilman. This is how the primaries of the Democratic Party in Liguria are playing, at least on one side: from the one that has dominated Liguria for ten years and does not want to give up the bone, even if it is now a bone. I am reporting to you the total decay of the regional political class, the defence of privileges only for those who are close to power. We cannot fail to understand the serious consequences that this way of doing politics is causing to the territory. I wouldn't be surprised if the promises for those appointed to the Senate were already in play today. Maybe you'll find Burlando and some counselor, perhaps, investigated who will, perhaps, also benefit from immunity. But this system of power that the current president of the Region wants to perpetrate by naming his adept, has created enormous problems to Liguria because it is a clientele system aimed not at the common good, but at its own strengthening. It becomes even easier with this way of making politics in a region that is the oldest in the country and primarily dependent on public work. But we sell some data of Liguria, data of 2012 also because there are still those of 2013 that we think are worsening. In the 2013 ISTAT report we read: In the North the worst result is achieved by Liguria, with marked reductions in GDP and employment, accompanied by a sharp fall in consumption. As for the debt of the Region, we searched in the report of the Court of Auditors, but the only data not received among all the Italian Regions is that of the Liguria Region. We have then searched the data of the Bank of Italy from which results a debt of approximately 3 billion euros. Per capita means 1,862 euros. I remember that in northern Italy the average is 1,260 euros: 600 euros less per capita. The consumption of households between 2009 and 2012 decreased by 6.2 percent: the worst figure in the country! The per capita expenditure of Liguria is € 2.747. In the other regions of Italy it does not exceed 2,539, in Veneto it is equal to 2,172 euros. If Liguria were to cost as an average of the cost of Italian regions, we would save at least 350 million euros. Liguria has spent 17,5 euros per capita on institutional bodies, 6,2 euros in Lombardy, 6,4 euros in Piedmont, 6,6 euros in Tuscany, 6,6 euros in Emilia Romagna and 7,9 euros in Veneto. A cost, then, two, three times higher. Leaders grew by 13.5% against even negative data from most regions in the rest of Italy, South, Central and North. The Region does not publish the mandatory data on transparency and we do not know what happens in the myriad of controlled companies, where we manage to have only unofficial news of serious waste, purchases and sales of very mysterious real estate also with the financing of Banca Carige (old management), operations aimed to hide the holes of the health care, but also to facilitate public companies in distress like the ACAM. Today's 19th Century has been published the news that the Court of Auditors has made great remarks on the accounts (and will present them on Friday), precisely in relation to what I am talking about. We of the Liguria Civic Movement have carried out an in-depth study of the Ligurian data parametrated to those of the other Italian Regions. Today our analyses become - precisely - endorsed also by the Court of Auditors. How can we think of giving in the hands of a region like this the task of electing senators as well? The Regions are really the worst of Italian politics, for the disproportionate costs, quality, percentage of inquisites and arrested, quality of work. I probably live in one of the worst regions in the country in this respect, wonderful in terms of beauty. I think, however, that with regard to the management of public affairs, the system is not very different in the other regions. The real constitutional reform that the country needs would be to redesign the Italian Regions, merging them into macro-regions of at least 5 million inhabitants, and all with equal dignity and parliamentary representativeness. Think, for example, of the fact that, since there are 20 regions, there are 20 RAI offices, which are the real black hole of the so-called public service. Also for RAI offices I have proposed the amalgamation in macro-sites from at least 5 million inhabitants. The cost of health is frightening, because it is managed with regional and non-territorial logics. For example, what sense does it make that La Spezia is in the Ligurian health system and not together with Tuscany? Does it seem natural that, because of a wrong policy and clientele of Ligurian health care, there have been escapes, even of only 30 kilometers, with passages in neighboring areas and today Liguria pay heavily the flight of patients to other regions? The small regions no longer stand, especially if managed as a large social shock absorber that only creates political clientele. The same happens throughout the regional computer system, contracted exclusively by companies of the Region. The Region pays a product 100 to Datasiel, not because it is worth 100, but because it makes the balance sheet of that company square and allows to pay wages at the end of the month. Then the computer company subcontracted to private individuals, maybe at half the price or even less. They have so bad service, stratospheric costs, lack of integration with the digital agenda, health system where ASLs do not communicate with each other because each has its own garden to keep up with computer science. I, who am president of a movement called Liguria Civica, would no longer like to have a small and devastated region; I would like to be part of a large region of at least 5 million inhabitants, after all the Regions have been redesigned, including those with special status and perhaps keeping a particular attention to linguistic minorities. For this reason, I have tabled amendments for the establishment of macro-regions or, alternatively, at least for the establishment of macro-regions of health, aimed at eliminating waste and duplication, and also at rebalancing the average age of patients. Lower costs and higher services: this is an objective that we certainly cannot achieve if we maintain the current regional geography. In Italy we have different types of regions. First of all, there are the autonomous regions, with privileges that, seen from Liguria, obviously cannot be pleased and cannot be conceived to maintain for the next fifty years. Of course, today the votes serve the Government which, therefore, bends before the Autonomous Regions. Then there are the Regions of the South, which however have different privileges vis-à-vis Regions that have similar situations in other parts of the country. Finally, there are the large Northern regions which, although they also have problems, are more efficient and have lower costs per capita for citizens. Then remains the Liguria, the South of the North: beautiful, but small, without any national political weight, poorly managed, totally isolated as infrastructure despite the thousand promises of many governments (also of the current minister Lupi). But of course there are strong regional responsibilities. So I cannot share the Senate reform as it is presented today. I really find it a provocation to think of putting in the hands of the Regions, as structured today, the election of its representatives to the Senate and I think I have given ample motivation. On the other hand, we take the opportunity to redesign regional competences, but especially regional borders, resulting in macro-regions of equal size, dignity and parliamentary representation. A recommendation to all parties: better look who you put in the territories, stop putting the vote hunters, clean up your insides. We will also see this in the forthcoming regional elections if you give more or less space to those involved in the various scandals on regional funds, remembering that even those who knew and kept silent have great responsibility to the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sposetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators, I certainly do not ignore the decisive and non-recidable links between constitutional change and the political battle that sustains or opposes it, but I move on a path of modest, I would say very modest, technical because it is not appropriate for a constitutional revision operation to remain flattened on contingent grounds, although not subject to circumvention from the political profile, owing in my opinion to a good Constitution or, as in our case, a broad revision of it, to strive to escape from the present and propose itself as a balanced regulator of the future, without expiry of time limits. In this parliamentary term we must recognise that the first steps in this direction were first taken by the President of the Republic, with the appointment of the so-called wise men, and then by the President of the Council, Mr Letta, who set out a path - I must admit - which is welcome as it is characterized by caution. He realized, President Letta, that the subject deserves attention and caution: we are talking about amending our fundamental Charter. President Letta, in this direction, appointed a committee of scholars who started an excellent work with the utmost attention. However, I must remind you all, if anyone ever liked not to remember, that there has been a first political man of the last twenty years who had grasped the need for a modification of our Constitutional Charter in order to adapt it to the changing times, to a society now globalized and also to give an answer to an economic crisis that had already been understood, at least from this one, to invade (and so it has been), our country: well, who can deny that the first man to feel this need, to grasp the need for this reform was Silvio Berlusconi? This particular, these aspects, and not other issues that are of nature I would say almost vulgar, place him and place him in history as the only true statesman of the last twenty years of our Republic. There's no argument about that. What I am saying is so true that it is documented, because we, in past legislation, have drafted and proposed a reform of our Constitutional Charter; but we have clashed not with intelligence, not with wisdom, not with wisdom, but with those who, on the other hand, at that time political adversary in Parliament, rather than recognizing the goodness of a decision, of an essential activity to be adapted to the times, to Europe and to other countries, only for a matter of principle and - I would say - of mental dullness proper to a conservative culture of the left, said no regardless, just because proposing such a reform was another political force. Well, we are different, and history says so. What does that same conservative left do today? It proposes with a bill a reform of the Constitutional Charter, worse than ours, because it affects only the profile of representation and representativeness and, in part, on Title V, but leaves unchanged, then, the whole basic aspect of the architecture of the State. Our reform intervened from the change of bicameralism to presidentialism; this is nuca, it is arranged, it is patched up. Nevertheless, on this side, because there is no conservative culture, but there is a strong need to modernise our country, we say: despite everything, it's okay. We do not allow ourselves to be caught up in those works, in those sentiments which cannot be present in a House of Parliament. A Member of Parliament must leave out of this door possible antipathy, sympathy and feelings, understandable from the human point of view, but which have nothing to do with a correct behaviour as a representative of the people. Having said that, I do not think I should add anything else from a political point of view, because I pointed out in the preamble that mine would be more than anything else the intervention of a very modest technical person. I would therefore move on to an exquisitely technical profile. The first point I made earlier and I repeat it again: this reform is essentially about representation, in its various aspects, without addressing in an accomplished way all the profiles of the form of state and government, even if it affects both sides. I must say that, perhaps, from the bill that came from the Government emerges an incontrovertible fact, on which we all agree (and, to be honest, I also like to emphasize my sharing): the repeal of the Institute of CNEL. The CNEL is a body of corporate, trade union, entrepreneurial and professional representation that in our constitutional tradition had known its landing place in the Chamber of Fascism and, after the fall of Fascism, had found a further echo in some proposals supported in the Constitutional Assembly on one Catholic side and not only. I remember the hard-working defender of CNEL in the person of Meuccio Ruini, who was then also his first president. Over time, this institute has not played an incisive role in the form of government and legislative initiative, nor has it assumed that role as a possible obligatory consultant in economic and social matters, the relations between government and social partners have crossed paths, so this body has remained only as a useless body; therefore, from the perspective of spending review, well done those who thought to repeal it and, when a decision is correct, we support it. However, an opportunity has been missed. There was a project that I call caldariano as launched by the president of the Campania Region Caldoro, refined politician with a particular acumen, which spoke of macroregions. Perhaps the territorial organization of our country could have gone in the direction of saving public expenditure and, especially today, in the context of the interventions made in the matter of relationships and competing subjects between State and Regions, it would have been useful not to miss the opportunity to imagine a territorial organization that went in the direction of large macro-regions, eliminating therefore many offices, saving a lot of money spent on unnecessary activities and that will be even more useless with a depletion of the legislative activities of the Regions. A delicate theme is then that of the composition of the Upper Chamber, that is the appointment of the senators: this is the central theme. Let me remind you that the debate on the item is not current, it is not today; this is a debate that has also been held in the work of the Constituent. At that time there was a strong need to affirm the centrality of Parliament in the face of the prevalence of the Commission which had characterized the fascist system. The aim was to achieve a bicameralism of guarantee, in the sense that double reading was intended, on the one hand, to improve the quality of the legislative text and, on the other hand, to achieve a unifying, delaying and controlling function. The basic positions are known: the Christian Democracy in those years, during the works of the Constituent, was favorable to a corporate Senate, the republican component was for a Senate of the autonomouss and the lefts advocated the monocameral solution. It seems to be in the current times: there are those who support a certain type of Senate and those who support another and I think the issue is very topical. A convergence between the left and the Liberal Party determined the rejection of the then majority party, the Christian Democracy, but a timid attempt by a senator who was called Tosato to assert a profile of territoriality of the Senate, initially weak, took shape during the discussion and then was approved the amendment that provided for the election of the senators on a regional basis, which went in the cultural direction of assigning to the High House a representation of the territories rather than of central politics. Today the moment is painful; it is a moment of contrast on how we want to carry out this operation of parliamentaryization of the territories and local authorities. The prediction of a high chamber with functions of control and political direction, with senators appointed by regional councils and mayors, or of a direct election of senators: this is the question that is leading to a close confrontation between political forces and also within them. From my point of view, there is an error in the wording of the text which came out of the Commission of a terminology nature, but not only. In fact, it defines itself as the Senate of the institutions, providing that the number of members that each Region will send to the Senate is proportional to the number of inhabitants. Of the two: if we qualify the Senate of the institutions, in this case we must bear in mind that the institutions are all equal, of equal dignity; in fact, one institution cannot be thought to be less institution than another because it has a smaller number of inhabitants; therefore (and in this direction there are some amendments that I have tabled), the number of senators sent by each institution must be equal throughout the national territory. Otherwise, agree and call it the Senate of the territory: in this case, give importance to the numerical profile of the number of inhabitants of each Region. Colleagues, the profile of the composition and mode of appointment or election cannot be without the intended functions that are to be attributed to this Upper Chamber. It is not possible to determine a priori who should appoint the senators, how they should be composed and what the number of participants in this House is, except in a way connected and closely linked to what are the functions that we want to attribute to this Upper Chamber. If we believe that the Senate House does not have legislative functions, it must necessarily leave the trust circuit and, therefore, it must be correctly imagined a House that does not give confidence to the Government because the only House of political direction and relationship with the Executive must be the Chamber of Deputies. Otherwise, everything changes. It seems to me, therefore, that there is a somewhat schizophrenic attitude because one tries to solve individual problems without framing them in a broader and more general context. In any case, I would like to say something that I think is important to everyone: I am determined to support the battle to avoid the so-called double hat, that is to say the duplication of assignments for the same person. It is unthinkable, as Senator Caliendo well explained yesterday, that at the same time one can hold the position of regional councillor and the office of senator of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] This is impossible from a practical point of view and also has a strong impact on the whole incompatibility regime. In fact, reading in our legal system that there is an incompatibility between the position of mayor of a city and the position of regional councilor, even the most inattentive scholar will wonder how it is possible to imagine an incompatibility, precisely, between the position of mayor and that of regional councilor, leaving out instead the incompatibility cited. And this is without prejudice to the fact that the senators are appointed by the Region, which may possibly appoint personalities of the territory and thus avoid the double hat. I believe that the new Senate must give voice - and here, perhaps, colleagues of the League a little applause could also do so - to the vital worlds of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u16	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u17	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). A little more, thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've already reached the 20 minutes at your disposal. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I said that we must also take into account experiences from other countries, where even in the Chamber of Control the use of the regional language of that particular territory is allowed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Thank you, colleagues. I should like to end, Madam President (and I apologise), by stressing the age aspect, which I would like the Government to pay attention to: according to the current organizational hypothesis, the Member must be 25 years old to be elected, while the Senator will be 18, so we will have a 25-year-old Member and a 18-year-old Senator; I wonder if this anomaly should not be corrected. Finally, I will end with the senators for life: the prediction that the President of the Republic can still appoint personalities who, however authoritative, are absent in the work of our Parliament, is unbearable! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I cannot allow there to be a name without a person to compose and control: I do not want to see ghosts in Parliament anymore! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Liuzzi.]] I want live and fresh meat that comes from the territory and brings its own experience... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Falanga's protests. Senator Candiani's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u18	Conclude, Senator Falanga, because we've reached 24 minutes and I don't think it's useful for everyone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u19	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I have concluded, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has already said twice that he was about to conclude: as he knows, he can also hand over to the documents the full text of his speech, so he only finishes the sentence he was saying. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). In conclusion, I would just like to say that after the outcome of the parliamentary work, after the individual amendments have been tabled and examined, I shall evaluate the text in its final composition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as people, even words get tired, says the book of the Ecclesiastes: under the weight of promises, deceptions and disappointments, the word'reform' has faded; let us give them some rest, at least in this debate. None of the institutional problems have been resolved and many have been aggravated by the proposed constitutional revision together with Italicum, including four points. Firstly, for almost a decade, the voters have been asking to be able to look the elected ones in the face, but here we decide to turn our backs on them. Citizens will continue not to choose MPs, nor will they elect senators, nor the President of the Metropolitan City, nor the councillors of the Province (who live under the bad name of "large area"). The result is that the political class will elect the political class: it is a great gamble, in my opinion, to restrict representation, just as we live perhaps the most serious fracture between societies and institutions in Italian history. Regional councillors who have problems with justice will be encouraged to be appointed senators to enjoy immunity extended to non-elective positions and for citizens the instrument of referendum is weakened: for example, that of Mario Segni in the post Tangentopoli would no longer be possible. It is a sign of the times: it happens in fact to revolutions failed to be then also denied. On the whole, we miss the opportunity to regain popular trust in the elective Assemblies. Secondly, a step backwards is taken at the most delicate point of power balance. A minority party, which collects less than 20% of those entitled to vote, can win the majority prize and use it to win the highest positions of the state, such as the Constitutional Court and the Presidency of the Republic. The rapporteurs acknowledged that the problem existed, but they did not know or wanted to solve it. The proposal to raise the quorum in the first eight votes does not prevent the first party from waiting for the ninth vote to impose its candidate. We would be faced with a savage presidentialism, without counterweights. But I am told that it was already so with the Porcellum. Well, then, it should be corrected. Instead, the text aggravates the imbalance. The House, in fact, retains 630 Members with the power of the majority prize, while the other branch of the 100 senators deprived of the freedom of mandate weakens, which can only be based on direct election. Better balance would be achieved by reducing the number of Members, the highest in Europe today, in relation to the population. No one has explained why it cannot be done. Why? Yet, Matteo Renzi, who wanted to save the allowance, should be thrilled. And the PD in the past years has always considered it a priority. And my fellow Romans, Sacconi and Casini voted for it when they were in the majority, in 2005. Why did everyone reconsider? Thirdly, overcoming the bicameralism of equality was an opportunity to strengthen parliamentary democracy. Instead, legislative power is finally subject to the executive, who will be tempted to use the majority prize, not only to govern the country, as it is entirely legitimate, but also to upset fundamental legislation as he pleases: for example on freedom of the press, the secret services, the autonomy of the judiciary, the amnesty, the indult, religious sensibilities, personal freedoms; or to modify in his favor the same electoral law in order to obtain the victory in the subsequent elections. Ladies and gentlemen, it could also become the most serious decision in part: that of war. Never again!It is the admonition that will give us as inheritance the constituent Fathers with that verb: "Repud." Yet today the war has become a daily event, a banality of evil, which arrives at home on television and today with this terrible, dramatic photo of the unarmed bodies of four children in front of the mosque of Gaza. "Never again!" we scream today, with the Constitution in hand. All these guarantees in the Chiti proposal were taken away from the spirit of partisanism, so as to force the parties to share the fundamental rules in the Senate elected by non-majority law and to compete for the Government in the House of Confession of the Vow of Trust. It was the long-awaited step forward in Italian history towards a mature democracy. Instead, the absolute premierate feared by Leopoldo Elia is being carried out, weakening the separation of powers as is the case in no European democracy. Fourthly, the State-Regions report becomes even more confusing, also because of the lack of care, I would like to say, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has devoted itself to this subject, although it is technically more complex than the others. It is a serious mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to abandon competing legislation, which is the essence of a cooperative regionalism, the only possible in a country marked by historical fractures, as the constitutionalist Massimo Luciani has emphasized. On the contrary, it chooses a clear separation between the exclusive competences of the State and the Regions, which no longer leaves any margin for mediation, thus making the conflict of competences irresolvable. How these are attributed is not relevant here, because a simple logical consideration is sufficient to recognize that any exclusive model increases litigation compared to the cooperative model! The latter model did not work in the years two thousand not because of its alleged defects, as has been repeated banally by many colleagues in the context of this debate: it did not work because of its pointless application by governments, right and left, which should have elaborated only frame laws and, instead, they continued to legislate in detail, inciting the Regions to excesses of opposite sign. The Senate of the Autonomies will not be able to resolve conflicts, indeed it could exasperate them. Now a phantom linking function is attributed, with a rhetorical expression devoid of any binding legal meaning. In reality that assembly will be called to approve legislative texts on which majorities and minorities will be formed based on the relationships of strength between rich regions and poor regions, failing the political mediation of territorial representation, which despite its limitations in recent years has contained the separatist drives. The new Senate will accentuate the North-South divide, with the risk of further weakening national unity. I sincerely hope that the final text will allow me to review these negative judgments. Ladies and gentlemen, I have faith in this House and, above all, in the possibility of a truly constituent spirit among us. There are amendments from several political parties that can improve the essential points: the elected-elector relationship, the independence of the Quirinale, the guarantees of the new bicameralism, cooperative regionalism. But let me appeal to my political side. We've had a lot of discussions in the Democratic Party Group. The differences are clear, but for me common visions are more important. We also share some dissatisfaction with certain articles: let us not leave them to the speeches of the corridor, let us not abandon them to silent regrets, let us turn them into proposals to be shared with the other Groups. The long constitutional duration does not allow anyone to recognize a mistake without committing to correct it. In this House, the first party must be the protagonist until the end in improving the Constitution. The improvements will be all the more intense as we move away from the motivations and methods that have so far distorted the debate. For the cancellation of the elective Senate, occasional reasons were brought, some surreal, of the type: it serves to create jobs; other reasons typical of the Italian provincialism: Cameron, Merkel or Hollande would never have gone to the European summit to make a good impression by deleting the constitutional bodies of their countries. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC groups and Senators Candiani and Mussini.]] But there is an older motivation that returns: to remove the government's brake, to remove the brake that prevents the government from deciding. It is the hoax that politicians and journalists have been telling the Italians for twenty years. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC groups and Senators Candiani and Mussini.]] They say falsehood on the shuttles of laws that go from one branch to another in Parliament more than once, but they are only 3% and concern very badly written texts by governments. [[Applause from Senator Taverna.]] On the other hand, it is too easy to pass laws, and indeed the fastest are even the most harmful: it took a few weeks to the right to approve the Porcellum and the laws ad personam and left to contribute to the mess of the exodates and to the constitutional eviction of the tie of balance in the budget, which, incidentally, here is also extended to the Regions. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC Groups and the Senators Candiani and Mussini.]] All the fields of public life, it is our daily experience to confirm it, are stifled by the asphyxiating legislative production of these years: in the school, in the tax, in the administration, in the pension, in the territory; every week omnibus decrees arrive in the Hall, drafts of law pompously called reforms, which are often piles of improvised norms, heterogeneous between them, often harmful or useless, so much so that 750 implementing decrees have remained in the drawers. Here we should really change towards: few laws a year, delegations to force ministers to administer, rather than legislate (that should be their task), and parliamentary controls on the results of these laws. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC groups and Senators Candiani and Mussini.]] To this innovation it was worth dedicating the new Senate as the High Chamber of Organic Laws, of the great unitary codes, of the principles of constitutional implementation, of the collection of the fruits of the knowledge and culture of the country, involving the best national competences. With the production of frame laws the Upper House would also bring order into the State-Regions relationship, more authoritatively than the Senate of the Autonomouss can do. Overcoming the bicameralism of equality was an opportunity to dedicate a branch of Parliament to long thoughts, to reformative intelligence, to public wisdom. Italy would really need a high House, as an aristocratic will of democratic derivation, so called the constitutionalist Mario Dogliani. Italy would need a high chamber to counter the ancient and modern vices of pressapochismo, improvisation and the new media plebeism that softens the Italian public spirit. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Corsini]] As far as the method is concerned, so many tears have been ringed, never seen in republican history: never had the government imposed a constitutional revision; never had the rapporteur been forced to present a text that almost no one shared, as was seen then by the many necessary changes. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Campanella]] Never had the senators been dismissed by a Commission for reasons of opinion. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Useless arrogance, which has only wasted time. If Parliament had been able to work peacefully, the reform of bicameralism would have been approved for months. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Endrizzi.]] I have never said that this is an authoritarian turning point or that constitutional principles are being distorted. There is not even one, my word, that can give rise to these interpretations. I would like to stress this, and I would like to point out that I voted against the preliminary ruling with my group. It is in danger, however, a simpler and, so to speak, more intimate aspect: the style of the constitutional debate. Critics of the proposal have been defined as "gufi", "sabotatori", "rosiconi", "ribelli", "sabotatori", "rosiconi", "rebelli". These words would never have been spoken by the Constituents, certainly divided by the cold war, by the twentieth century ideologies, but always available to the conversation of ideas. It is precisely today that we have all become liberals that respect is lacking, in the debate and in the confrontation of ideas. It is the paradox of our time. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Albano]] Post-modern politics in fact always needs to make an enemy. As in a video game one monster is eliminated and immediately another one presents itself to keep the emotional tension high, so here the symbolic operation wins on merit: conquering the scalp of the elective Senate seems part of a spell that serves to reassure and console citizens for the lack of true reforms. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]] After this revision, who will read the Charter all of a breath will exclaim: "What is beautiful is not new, what is new is not beautiful." The elegant Italian language of the constituent Fathers with its simple and deep words (recognition, work, dignity) is suddenly interrupted by a neurotic and technical vocabulary, marked by referrals to paragraphs, as a normal regulation of condominium. That's the part you're writing today. Language is the revelation of being, the philosopher said. The Constitution is like the language that allows different people to recognize, meet and talk to each other. The Charter is the public discourse between citizens and the Republic; more, it is the story of the past addressed to the future of the country. If the Constitution is the language, style is everything; if it lacks style, it is possible to complacency of the political class, but not republican recognition. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD, M5S, FI-PdL XVII, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Torrisi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u21	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u22	Madam President, let's get Senator Tocci to give his applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u23	I gave her the floor and she's starting the minutes count. I call on the House to allow this to happen. I think Senator Bencini has a right to be heard, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u24	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Tocci for his great speech, which I share. Like him, I, too, signed the Chiti Constitutional Bill and supported some of Senator Chiti's amendments, also signed by Senator Tocci. Talking after him is not easy, in fact I think it was quite exhaustive, and I also ask myself a question. He is a different voice within a majority, which, however, has not been given enough credit. So, I wonder how much credit can be given to my voice, since I am part of an opposition that may not have enough weight. I still give her a voice and say mine. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come. We have been talking about constitutional reforms for twenty years and more: actually, since the 1980s, when the music was better and when our young and run-up President-in-Office of the Council was not even old enough to vote, but he already had in mind how to do it. His actions are a little different from my wishes, and this is evident from the amendments I have tabled and signed and which I will support in this House. They are all motivated by considerations that I want to share with you and that I can be from many of you already shared, but not from him. However, after my words I hope it can change: maybe it meets me, or comes to meet us oppositions, thus avoiding a frontal contrast, as has been said several times. In fact, we could get hurt, but we would hurt an entire country if we were wrong about the decisions that are to be taken in this House today and in the next 15 days. A profound reform of the architecture of the State, which assigns new roles and functions to the institutional organs, must be addressed with the same collaborative and responsible spirit that the constituent Fathers had: the respect that must be recognized to their work is not ritual or commemorative, but the due recognition to a constitutional system that allowed Italy to rebuild democracy, unity and development on the ruins of war, fascism and rhetorical nationalism that had not created a true and strong national identity. Italy, in these decades of the Republic, has experienced very difficult moments, but the constitutional guarantees enshrined in our Constitutional Charter have been able to cope with the most serious threats. It is true that they have not been able to defend us from the establishment of a de facto corrupt and irresponsible partycracy, but any serious attack on the foundations of the democratic order has been rejected. This happened also thanks to the ability to ennoble anti-system dissent when this manifested itself in the country, allowing it to choose the democratic way to express itself and guarantee its representation in the institutions. As we prepare to amend the Constitution, we must first of all remember that the best comparative approach is to compare, first and foremost, with the text currently in force and with the history of our country, which is an indispensable resource for ours today to avoid the repetition of mistakes of the past. The greatest risk for democracy, as for peace, is to take it for granted, immune from dangers, deprived of the need for our constant and watchful attention. Attention to the health of our democracy is also reflected in the need to verify the opportunity to adapt the institutional structures of our country to new needs and challenges. It is right to update our Constitutional Charter, but not to upset it. It is right to make innovations in order to respond to the good and needs of citizens. However, reform projects that meet the needs of a political system that is incapable of promoting consensual and participatory democracy are not acceptable, and that is why it is willing to offer, as the only solution to the inefficiency of its way of making politics, a governmental and hyper-majoritarian democracy. While discussing overcoming the perfect bicameralism, changing Title V of Part II of the Constitution and how to do so, we must also bear in mind the reform of the electoral law voted in the House of Deputies. We need to analyse the entire reforming system and ask ourselves what result we are about to be led by pacts established outside the parliamentary classrooms. A basically monocameral system in which legislative power belongs to an elected Chamber with an electoral system that artificially creates a majority of government and, at the same time, prevents representation to unaligned political forces by providing a threshold of mad barrier of 8%. An ectoplasm Senate composed of post-laborists, committed to playing their main institutional role in the territory and who are not selected by citizens to play the role of senators. A reinforced government, also in its impact in the legislative process, which dictates priority, timing and modalities of approval of laws. A Parliament which, despite the limited representativeness and substantial governmental control that the electoral law and Senate reform recognize it, is still called upon to elect the guarantee bodies: the President of the Republic and, directly or indirectly, the members of the Constitutional Court. While it is true that democracy is based on independence of powers, representativeness and respect for minorities, this reform project needs profound changes. The changes made in the Commission are absolutely insufficient and there is a prospect of a reform which aims, in fact, to change our form of government, abandoning the idea dear to our Members of Parliament of the centrality and the vision of a consensual democracy and attentive to representing the existing political pluralism. Incrediblely, we are also losing the opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity to take a step forward, to meet the citizens, to their obvious desire to participate directly in the decision-making process. The crisis of politics and public confidence is not solved by arming the palace and focusing powers. It is right and acceptable that it is clear, immediately after the vote, who governs and who goes to the opposition and that those who govern can count on a stable and certain majority. But this major thrust must be balanced with the right counterweights of guarantee and representativeness. Precisely the Senate can play the role of Chamber of Reflection and Warranty without prejudice to the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. With respect to the Government's proposal, however, it is necessary to strengthen its role in the legislative process and in the control activity. Consequently, it cannot be abandoned to strengthen its popular legitimacy by providing for the direct election of senators with an electoral system that guarantees greater pluralism and representativeness compared to Italicum. If it has not been understood, I would like the senators to be elected by the people. Two curious objections have been raised against the elective Senate. The first is to justify the decision not to have senators elected by the citizens with the will to lower the costs of politics, eliminating the 100 parliamentary allowances that would otherwise have to be paid. The second considers the election of senators by citizens to be incompatible with the new reduced functions planned for the Senate. I have heard support for the principle that if the senators were elected by the citizens, then the Senate should have a greater role and should vote, perhaps, also for trust and therefore not be overcome by the perfect bicameralism. If this is an accepted and acceptable principle, then we should also deprive the Senate of the task of participating in the process of revising the Constitution. What greater responsibility can an Assembly have than that of influencing the Constitutional Charter? It cannot, therefore, be the consequent impossibility of overcoming the perfect bicameralism the reason for rejecting an elective Senate. The overcoming of the perfect bicameralism has suddenly become, and after having remained buried for years as a topic from university classrooms, the mother of all the reforms, so much so as to become, we might say, the title of these reforms, at least mediatically. It sounds good - we cannot deny it - the slogan "we cut chairs and shorten the times of politics," if it were not that certain times of politics are also the times of democracy. Consensual democracy provides for variable times based on the consensus that is created around a proposal. The wider the consensus, the more rapid the adoption of a measure will be; otherwise more work will have to be done to reach a wider consensus and find a more shared and therefore more democratically legitimate solution. It may take time and effort, but in the end the result will rest on the stone and not on the sand or at least this is what anyone who declares himself democratic must strongly believe in. The consensus in Parliament that has a measure, the importance and complexity of the subject, the dynamics within the parliamentary groups and various opportunisms are all factors that can influence the legislative process even more importantly than double reading. Of course, perfect bicameralism can actually create stalemate, more the result of politics than of the expression of the will of the citizens, especially in the case of uneven compositions of the two rooms. That is why I personally, and I also believe the majority of those in this House, agree that the possibility for the majority, an expression of the result of the elections (which, at this time, is represented by the Democratic Party which joined the New Right Centre), is to overcome at some point the possible legislative muddle. This cannot be done, however, when it comes to fundamental rights and matters of constitutional importance and not before an in-depth discussion has taken place that has involved a wide range of voices to enrich the debate, also giving time for citizens to inquire and possibly mobilize. Efficiency is not synonymous with hastyness, but means doing things well in the shortest possible time. The queen excuse of every tyrant and authoritarian regime has always been the one that is urgent to do; citizens are in a hurry to have answers; politics is slow, but fortunately now I am there. In fact, the Latins already said: "The hasty cat makes blind children" and certainly not farsighted. The Senate, as it has been conceived, will not even be able to play the role of a valid Chamber of Reflection; nor will it be useful to correct technical errors, since it will presumably rarely intervene on matters in which it will have no binding opinion. In order to bring citizens closer to politics, it is not necessary to speed up the legislative process to such an extent that it cannot be discussed carefully and consciously in Parliament and among the public. The problems of democracy are solved with more democracy. Rather, we vote on the obligation to discuss the laws of popular initiative within a fixed time limit (which we did not want to set) and introduce the proposed referendum (which we did not want to introduce). The citizens are additional elements of guarantee in a democratic process that sees them as an active and vigilant part of it. It has been said that reforms must be made because the citizens are asking for them. I have the impression that these reforms are actually an assurance for the current political system, which in turn guarantees the Italian ruling class, against what unfortunately - from what we hear - is waiting for us in 2015. It is no coincidence that the President of the Republic, who has long been the guarantor of the pacts with the European Union rather than the pacts for the Constitution, has a certain concern. The economy does not start again, 2015 is getting closer, other provisions tears and blood are at the door. We do not need to be a magician; therefore, we do not need divinatory powers to understand that with the new institutional structure and the new electoral law we will immediately go to the elections to give Italy an armored government, more stable, that has a white card to face the unknowns of the coming years. The citizens ask us for governability, but they also ask us, above all, for honesty, transparency and decision-making power regarding the choices to be made and the power to sanction their representatives. They also call for the political class to make sacrifices and there are those who claim that these reforms respond to this request. So I come to the other objection to the elective Senate, the one that is based on cutting the costs of senators' allowances. The most laughable argument, given that amendments have been rejected that would have reduced the seats more while allowing citizens to choose directly their representatives in the Upper House. Let us stop being afraid of citizens and abandon the idea that sovereignty belongs to parties. It is not like that or else you have the dignity to write it in the Constitution. The debate in the Commission has been and has been interesting to see how the need to innovate our Charter by promoting greater participatory democracy was shared by more voices, even of different political colors. And we cannot say that the rapporteurs have been completely deaf to the demands made. Having brought the quorum of the referendum to half of the voters in the last parliamentary elections, it was a necessary, but not obvious, choice to safeguard the referendum institution. With an adequate and reasonable quorum, the real popular will on the proposed questions will be consulted with greater correctness. On the other hand, the number of signatures needed for referendums and popular initiative laws has been raised. An understandable choice that does not make me shout at the scandal: those who believe in participatory democracy really believe that citizens have the desire and the ability to mobilize and the new media and information undoubtedly make it easier to achieve the goal of collecting signatures. It is also important that there is no instrumental abuse of institutions of direct democracy, precisely in order to safeguard its validity and to ensure the maximum understanding and participation of citizens. However, more courage was possible and needed to be given. Were these the only politically possible reforms? I don't think so. With a different approach of all, with less attention to the elections and more to the interests of Italy, we could have seen in useful times at other tables, at other negotiations, at other proposals. Personally, I would have liked to talk about reforms and new electoral law from the beginning of the parliamentary term. I immediately argued that, as a new political force in Parliament - belonging to the 5 Star Movement, which is the new political force of this Parliament - voted by the citizens for a radical change, it was necessary to assume the responsibility of opening a dialogue with the other political forces, precisely in order not to passively suffer their choices. I have paid personally, like other colleagues, this need to contribute to a real change, right away, and to implement the programme that brought me to this House as quickly as possible. And I have not paid in political terms, but as a citizen who sees reforms profiling before him that do not respond to his demands nor to those of millions of people who have voted for me bringing me here. I would have liked my former Group not to have left the alibi to the Democratic Party to argue that it is too late to make further reforms. I fear that a great opportunity for change has been wasted to pursue a total and absolute electoral victory. A suicide strategy to which intelligent men and women have not wanted or been able to oppose. Ladies and gentlemen, M5S, it is not Grillo who dictated the line. The fault is ours that we did not have the backbone to oppose the necessary correctives to that line. However, the game is still long and not everything is lost, perhaps tomorrow, after the sentence of July 18, if Berlusconi is sentenced to seven years, then disproved the farce voted by 314 servile MPs who said "Yes, it is the grandson" - at that moment you demonstrated that you belong to the party of Cetto La Qualunque "Chi più p 'all, demonstrating the ancient conviction that pulls more a hair than a cart of ox - here, in all cases after the condemnation, if there will be, maybe the dialogue with the oppositions could become active and constructive. As far as I am concerned, we former senators of the 5 Star Movement, today belonging to the member of the Mixed Group Italy Work in Course (tomorrow - I hope - Active Democracy Group), we are available for a dialogue. The amendments to change the Constitution, remaining faithful to the innovative and democratic spirit of the constituent Fathers, are there. In this Parliament, in which the mantra of Razzi has been schooled ('My friend's facts... yours!'), I say: we are responsible. It is up to us alone, in the freedom of our mandate (Article 67 of the Constitution), to do the interests of the nation and future generations of Italians, by popular suffrage, as a garrison of public freedom and as a certainty of civil progress (it is written above your head, Madam President). We continue to guarantee the Italian Democratic Republic. I also want to thank all the people who participated in this very interesting debate. Today is the fourth day of general discussion, during which many senators of the various political groups, of majority and opposition, participated, carrying out very interesting interventions, which made me know and see aspects that I had not noticed during the examination of this constitutional law revising the Constitution. I thank, therefore, all these senators, I thank the opposition and, in particular, I thank some people who have further opened my mind, such as Senators Chiti, Tocci, Stefano, Petraglia, Montevecchi and Volpi, who said very interesting things to me. Sorry if I don't mention them all, I'm definitely forgetting someone, because it was a really interesting debate, which personally increased my culture. Thank you all, and we hope to work with conscience and knowledge in the coming days and really bring an improvement to this constitutional bill. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u25	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea and the Minister for Economic Development: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 100 of 16 July 2014 introducing urgent measures for the implementation of the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities for enterprises subject to extraordinary commission" (1567).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore here to discuss, in this long debate, which has been uninterrupted for four days, Renzi's constitutional reform. The overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution on the legislative competences between State and Regions, the transformation of the Senate. We of the North League immediately say that the original layout of the text presented with so much boredom by the Government was bad, dangerous, absolutely messy. The changes especially to Title V of the Constitution were unacceptable, deprived the Regions of important competences, had a centralist and centralizing system, i.e. going against the objective - so flagdierato by the Government - of valorizing and representing the autonomy and the Regions, in reality trampling them. Thanks to its rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, the work of improving the text carried out by the North League in the Commission has corrected many centralist distortions. We also thank the rapporteur, the President of the Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, who, however, together with our rapporteur, has managed to gather many of the requests that emerged during the debate in the Commission by all the groups to try to improve the text. However, the text that came out of the Commission is not yet what we want to go forward here; a text that is still too centralist and needs to be improved. Returning to the original text, the Renzi Government started with it a strong neo-statist regression, bringing fundamental choices on the central state, such as that of health care. This was not and is not the promotion of autonomy. With regard to the members of the Senate, for example, always in the original text, the Government did not consider the representation of the Regions. According to that original text, my region, Veneto, of 5 million inhabitants, would have only six senators, like the smallest regions. It is clear that on these points changes were needed, which fortunately came thanks to the intervention of the North League in the Commission and the work of the two rapporteurs, who introduced the criterion of proportion to the population living in each region. The Government's proposal was a starting point for reform work that is however very complex and still requires further study, despite some improvements. The initial article presented other absolute problems, such as, for example, the absurd issue - and fortunately also this correct one - of the 21 senators of appointment of the President of the Republic, the competences (unclear and without any guarantee and control role) that the Senate had in relation to the Chamber of Deputies, the centralization of regional competences in the government, also considered the serious deletion of article 116, third paragraph, on the additional forms and particular conditions of autonomy that the Regions can negotiate, as well as of article 117, third paragraph, on the concurrent competence. It is also a good thing that much has been done in the Commission on these two articles, but let us say at once that there is still much to be done. There was originally a confusing and dangerous reorganization of the division of competences between the State and the Regions. The new Senate conceived by Renzi did not and does not have any say in the matter of trusting the Government, which remains at the head of the Chamber of Deputies alone, but did not derive and unfortunately does not derive from any direct election of its members and, since it will be composed of Presidents of the Region, mayors of important cities and regional councillors, it is thought that they have nothing to do to stay in Rome, or in reality the real objective of Renzi is that the Senate counts nothing, is only an empty box, to the face of the representation of the autonomous and the territories. So, if that is to be the case, at this point it is better to just close it down, as other Members in this House have also said. In short, while there would really be a need in the country for a true and serious reform of the Constitution and its organs, for a thoughtful reinterpretation of the whole architecture of the State - in order not to do harm - and for a reduction of all the parliamentarians (also of the MPs), as well as of the apparatuses and of the state bureaucracies, the Renzi mechanism seemed at the beginning, and unfortunately still seems, only an unrealizable announcement. We have said that in the Commission, the North League and its rapporteur have done a great deal of work to improve the text. We have safeguarded the regions and the virtuous administrations, we have finally put in the Constitution a sacrosanct principle, that of the standard costs marked by levels of efficiency. It is a historic turning point that will bring positive effects to the country, will allow it to be modernised, responsible for all administrations in the use of public money, thus eliminating waste and inefficiencies and recovering resources for the empty coffers of the state budget. However, much can and must still be done, improving the text and giving more expertise to regions and local authorities. They must be given more competence and more responsibility; only in this way can one look at a modern state that gives answers to citizens, saves public resources by rewarding those who manage well. This reform is still too centralist, so we invite you to listen to us, ladies and gentlemen, and to change some of the points of the reforms in this House - we say to the representatives of the Government - still. Let us be clear: either we vote on our amendments, or the proposal remains inadmissible for us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We await a signal on our proposals, which we can summarize as follows: less Europe, the possibility of referendums on international and Community treaties and territorial authorities that are no longer bound by the European Stability Pact. More federalism: for us the exclusive legislative competences of the Regions need to be increased; corrections to Article 117 still need to be made. If anyone thinks they want to bring everything back to the state, we will always and totally put ourselves across and at this point the reform, even with the referendum, since it will not reach the quorum of two thirds, will stop. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We must give more power to the people for a true participatory democracy: therefore, direct election of the Senate, the one that you want to cancel, democracy. It affects your stubbornness to want to make the Senate an appointed body, subtracting Italian citizens, who are now entitled to it, the right to directly elect its members. You want it to become a State House and not a people's House. But we want to remember that Article 1 of the Constitution, dear Prime Minister Renzi, still reads: Sovereignty belongs to the people. This article derives from the long and very hard anti-fascist struggle, the transformation of the State into the Democratic Republic by popular referendum and the vote of a constituent assembly elected by the people. The constituent Fathers wanted it because they thought of a representative and progressive democracy, that is, more and more participated by the people. On the other hand, you want to start a reverse process: deal with a narrowing of citizens' voting rights. We're not in. We have also helped to improve the text in the Commission on this point: we have looked for viable mediation hypotheses, but always aimed at democratic representation and the true participation of citizens and we will continue on this path in this House as well. Part II of the Constitution needs to be reformed but in line with its roots. Of course, the perfect bicameralism must be overcome, but it confirms the popular right to directly elect all representatives, regenerating the indispensable balance between the powers, the popular control over the government and that of the citizens over their representatives. Again, with regard to our amending proposals: we propose the direct election by the citizens of the President of the Republic, the lowering of the number of subscriptions necessary for referendums and popular initiative laws. The number of signatures required to submit a referendum is excessive, i.e. 800,000: this number must be reduced. For us, then, it is very important to introduce the deliberative referendum, on the Swiss model. Still: less public expenditure: we also propose a reduction in the number of Members. It must be reconsidered, ladies and gentlemen: 630 is an objectively too large number, which unbalances the relationship between the Senate and the House when they meet in joint session and a Bulgarian Parliament is created. We have made a sensible proposal in this respect: it is better to set the number of Members at 500. Let's think about it. On the issue of immunity, the amendment will have to concern both the House and the Senate. We are for abolition, even total, but it must apply to both rooms. If not, the vote given and the opinion expressed in the light of the exercise of the parliamentary mandate shall remain indisputable. We can also reason on the solution of entrusting to a third body, and in particular to the Constitutional Court, decisions on requests for arrest to parliamentarians. There are three hypotheses in the field. Accept them! As far as the matters of competence of the new Senate are concerned, it must also deal with great ethical issues - our rapporteur has emphasized - of the coordination of public finance and the system of equalization. Otherwise, how can a representative chamber of territorial autonomy be? Is it conceivable, ladies and gentlemen, that - for example - religious freedoms, the rights of minorities and ethical laws can be subjects on which to give the last word only to the House, voted with Italicum? Consider: this is absurd and very dangerous. Finally, a popular referendum on constitutional reforms is planned even when it is approved by a qualified majority of two thirds. In short, these are our amending proposals to ensure that this reform is of substance, capable of giving a real turning point to the country system, with the benefits that citizens and businesses are waiting for. The debates, even at a distance, between the head of PD and Forza Italia, and now also of the 5 Star Movement, are the plastic representation of the fact that you are looking for an agreement on how many parliamentarians will take one party or take the other with the electoral reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Let's face it: only guaranteeing seats and seats is of interest to you, but no real commitment to creating new jobs. Yet this is the real emergency, given all the data, even today, that tells us that youth unemployment is 46 percent, while the general one is 13 percent. One million jobs, more than half of them in employee work, and especially in self-employment, disappeared in the six years of crisis between 2008 and 2013. Renzi, Berlusconi and Grillo, if you think that discussing electoral law will help you get closer to the citizens, you are totally out of line. You have, apparently, perfectly conformed to politics style before Republic: so much smoke, so much chatter and no answer. Why does the question of electoral law come up here? Because the question of the new Senate necessarily intersects with it, to the point that it is almost impossible to separate from the negotiation that you are pursuing the two aspects. Yours is a negotiation for known positions. The Nazarene Pact has so far taken into account the needs of your two great parties, drawing a bipolarism in which all the other political formations disappear or are reduced, with the effect of freeing, by Renzi's express admission, the Democratic Party and Forza Italia - by chance - from their respective blackmailers, as he defined them, namely Left Ecology and Freedom and, perhaps, we of the League. The threshold for access to the majority premium is individually low. The barriers to the representation of parties are very high, for everyone. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] In particular for those who run alone, but also for those who join an electoral cartel and risk seeing little representation of their strength in terms of seats. In the face of respect for pluralism and the representation of all political forces and whole slices of electorate. The transformation towards which the entire Italian political system is sailing, designed by Renzi, beyond the technical details, is that through the so-called Italicum, a hyper-majoritarian law, a reduced form of democracy is achieved, by force of things, so that the party that becomes hegemony, perhaps at the ballot, without therefore having earned 37 percent, can do the beautiful and the bad time, let's be clear: first, by obtaining by prize the majority in the Chamber, the only one at this point that will count; secondly, by obviously conquering Palazzo Chigi; thirdly, determining, which turn does not matter, even the choice of the President of the Republic, that is, that office that should be above the parties (in fact, should); finally, by appointing the judges of the Constitutional Court and the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And for counterweights? Nothing. Because the Senate will become irrelevant, because in Renzi's plan the Regions will be resized and will count less and less, the same parties that are part of the winning coalition will be destined to appear. Not to mention the others. Here, it is above all on this reduced idea of democracy that probably the Nazarene Pact reveals all its ambiguities and the desires of its two performers, Renzi and Berlusconi. Faced with this prospect, of course, that we are alarmed, of course, that there is tension in these classrooms, of course, that we in the North League will always be on guard. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bell and Di Maggio Senators]] I just want to remember the situation in the country, to draw some attention to the issues that really matter to the citizens and to us of the North League. We are in one of the most difficult moments: just think of the 9 million Italians who do not have work, are cash-integrated or have insufficient work to their livelihood. Together with their family members, they are the majority of the population. We have never had such a broad social distress in recent decades. We are close to social and economic collapse and all indicators indicate the state of alarm: industrial production at peak, rising unemployment, recession and deflation, with over 6 million poor, public debt at maximum, real deficit over 3%. Businesses are choking between an increasingly exotic tax and an increasingly inefficient bureaucracy. The leverage of credit is blocked and there are mountains of loans in distress, consumption still downhill, despite the fake 80 euros in paycheck, and this Europe of bureaucrats, which - as always - does not respond to any appeal. We need to change the register, lords of the Government, to change the country, to trigger confidence and growth and we need real reforms to restore competitiveness to the Italy system: tax, bureaucracy, public administration and civil justice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Faced with this situation, however, you continue to deal with internal issues, often personalistic, that do not affect and do not make the difference compared to the prospects of the country. Worse, since you settled in, you have said that we must give citizenship to everyone, that we must abolish the crime of illegal immigration - and you have done so, so the landings have increased - and open the doors of the prisons; and now, there is the novelty of the allowance to prisoners in restricted cells: congratulations! What is certain is your non-political action, the non-action with regard to the problems of the country. When a country decides to create a Government of broad understanding, it is expected that such an opportunity will be accepted to address structural problems. At the moment, however, we must note that, beyond the usual roboating announcements of the young and launched Premier, nothing concrete has been done, except the usual increase in taxes. Thus, it is virtually impossible to adopt the true reforms that the country urgently needs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Your policy is more concerned about the forthcoming elections than about doing real things to revive the country: institutional and economic reforms are needed. In the face of all this, we frankly do not care about the division of armchairs and we gladly leave them to the young old people. If you, the Government and the majority, really want to turn the page and show that you want to make reforms seriously, then give a precise signal, accepting our proposals: either you change the register in a democratic, participatory and more federalist way, the only way, otherwise already drawn, to give the country a change of register, or there will be the revolution of the people. If a tangible signal is not given to us on the issues we have raised, which I have indicated to you and which, in summary, translate our amending proposals, that is, if the current text retains its serious limitations, we will not vote for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u28	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech comes after many others, which are critical of this reform. The previous speakers, in favour of or against the proposed constitutional changes, have already addressed their words to other senators, of course, to Mr Boschi or the President-in-Office of the Council. Some of them have also favoured techno-juridical aspects of the fearful regulatory intervention, while I, who are not a constitutionalist, do not come to me on strictly techno-juridical aspects, but I would like to address the main and final recipient of the decisions of the policy, that is to say those who are outside the walls of the Palaces, the citizens, who perhaps have not quite clear what is the fallback of this wretched government bill, "maquillaged" in the Commission, just to be able to tell us then that it is a text on which the examination carried out there has affected deeply and profitably. I want to address especially young people and young people, that is to say those who would find themselves - but we really hope not! - to live these constitutional changes for most of their lives. Yes, because these changes start an irreversible process of transformation of our democratic order. Someone is talking about innovation in order to take advantage of positive feelings: bullshit! It is a question of reducing the prerogatives of the people, who in a liberal democratic society are summed up in a concept, in a word: "sovereignty"! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What is sometimes lost sight of here is the result of this work, which will not only be transposed into legislative texts, but lived by the citizens. Dear young people, we are discussing something that puts democracy in crisis. The first question I asked myself is where this came from. How has it come so far, to the point of not fearing to come out in the open and declare openly the will to overturn the Constitution of the Italian Republic? Because this is what it is: to destroy by vanity what our grandparents have conquered with blood! Well, I replied that all this comes from far away and is the result of a very precise plan, which over the years has led to a progressive departure from those who are the founding values of our splendid Constitution: freedom, justice, equality and solidarity. Little by little, thanks to the wise use of the press, television and the media in general, the news about what concerns the life of the State has become less precise, less clear, less critical. The attention has been carefully shifted from the political life of the country to what we today call gossip. So the average man, who perhaps returns home tired, after an honest day of work and has time to inquire only by watching the news, has gradually lost sight of the political evolution of the country, until he does not become scandalized more than anything, not even of this indecent idea of constitutional change that represents the final phase of this process of demolition of our democracy. Using the weapon of gossip, of the effective news, with the help of the media, they created, on the one hand, the terror of dissent, framing those who do not believe in these changes, this abomination to the Constitution, as saboteurs, brakers, owls, rosicons; and, on the other hand, making believe that this change is beautiful, innovative, that fights the caste, that abolishes the Senate and that it is therefore a saving of the costs of politics and goes towards a true efficiency. It's fake! But lies can become truth. The creator of Nazi propaganda said that any lie, if repeated frequently, will gradually turn into truth. The Senate amendment, for the lie, becomes then: abolition of the Senate. The replacement of the senators elected by the people by nominations of the Regional Councils, by deception, becomes: away the senators. No savings for the state coffers, for the lie, become: the savings for the state coffers would be huge, represented in over one billion euros. The increasing difficulty for the people to propose popular laws and referendums, for the lie, becomes: more citizen participation in decisions. The centralization of powers, through the reduction of guarantees, for the lie, become: efficiency, modernization, innovation. But let's tell the truth here, and let's see what it is. A Senate composed of five appointed by the President of the Republic and 95 appointed by the Regional Councils among the same regional councillors and mayors of the Municipalities of their respective territories. These nominations - not by the people - will have decision-making legislative powers over constitutional reforms and constitutional laws. They will choose the President of the Republic and have the immunity of a Member of Parliament. These people, who are representatives not of the people, but of a new category, a new corporation, that of regional councillors and mayors immune from justice and who have the direct thread with the Government, can never be fully free men, because they will always have the worry that any possible action against the Government can have negative effects on their regional councils or on their own municipalities, since both are subject to the Government anyway. 11:39 a.m. (Follow PUGLIA). But what institutional monster are you going to give Italy? There will be an elected Chamber without preference, with Italicum (but the lie in the electoral campaign - remember? - gave preference great importance, it was a priority) and there will be a Senate not elected by the Italian people but by regional advisers, and this, let's face it, is a regression in the level of popular impact on the decision-making process. For bossitarianism we want to transform the Senate - which will always be there, let us remember - into a Chamber of enslaved and maneuvered consents: a bivouac of the delegates of the parties, instead of a deliberating body of representatives chosen by the voters. The President of the Republic will be more expression of government and therefore also the senators appointed by it will be increasingly politicized. The judges of the Constitutional Court will be more and more expression of the Government. The same will apply to members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. You're creating a dangerous facility! This is the triumph of the anti-state! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Dear young people, citizens will no longer be able to choose the people they want to be governed by. You will certainly wonder what this has to do with saving. In truth, I understood it a little too: the Senate Palace, with its total costs, remains standing; the House of Deputies remains the same, huge, number of members (630), no intervention on the allowances, no intervention on the vitalities, no intervention on the privileges. We had proposed a 50% reduction in members both in the Senate and in the House, along with a 50% reduction in allowances, but nothing. To think about it, there is a saving: they want to save on democracy! But there must be no savings on democracy, because democracy is priceless, young people! On the contrary, wanting to reason in economic terms, democracy is an investment for the future of all of us, especially for the future of those like you, young people, who still have to build so much. Young people, be angry, have no respect, be unmerciful, just as they are with your freedom! Get angry at all those who will vote in favour of this constitutional change and will allow the expression "city participation" to be expressed in their speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In fact, they decided to intervene to remove the possibility for citizens to influence legislative choices, as well as not to let you vote anymore the senators - who, let us remember, will still exist, just as the Senate will exist, but the parties and not the citizens will vote for them - have complicated access to the most important instruments of participation that the Constitution has assigned to citizens: the referendum and the popular law initiative. Going by order, what they propose to us is to raise to 800,000 the number of signatures required for the indictment of a repealing referendum: 800,000! It's a very high number! We ask ourselves: why this hostile attitude towards this institution? Well, perhaps because - allow me to digress - it is thanks to a referendum held in 2011 that Silvio Berlusconi, that is the condemned with whom they make agreements, is officially a criminal? Yes, because only thanks to the referendum - and not to a law made by them - it was possible to abolish the legitimate impediment of the President of the Council of Ministers and of Ministers to appear at a criminal hearing and, therefore, it was possible to proceed in the trials against Berlusconi and reach a final judgment in Cassation; and they, precisely with Silvio Berlusconi, have put in place this shameful reform. Will you be surprised that they are seeking an agreement with a convicted person for tax fraud, even if other convictions are not excluded, to amend the Constitution? Young people, we hope you can always keep your amazement. I quote Massimo Ottolenghi, who is fit: "You young people must be the first to react, no one else does, has the strength and urgency to do so. Your future depends on you, therefore, you can and must claim it new, clean, free, uncompromising, without waste, cleansed from the mistakes of those who preceded you. Try to think of the future in your image, not according to that of your fathers who are crushed on the present and unable to go beyond this mud. It is not over here; I have urged you to rebel because they have touched on another tool of citizen participation in the legislative choices of the country: they have raised from 50,000 to 250,000 the number of signatures necessary to be able to exercise the initiative of popular law. Five times the number requested. But they gave us a little contentment; they said that, it is true that there has been an increase in the threshold, but this is offset by the introduction of the obligation to schedule these bills. And what's the term? And the penalty if you don't happen to? Shoulders. With regard to all this that I have described, dear young people, Mr Renzi, that is to say the gentleman who was elected mayor of Florence and who is to be President of the Council without having ever presented himself at the elections, he spoke of a great opportunity that should not be wasted. Sure! When will it happen more than destroy democracy in general condescending? Our Constituents had in mind a pluralistic and participatory conception of democracy. Article 1 of the Constitution says that sovereignty belongs to the people. What is proposed here is even able to empty this article of meaning, even without repealing it! A professional job, you know. Daughter, we are at the Shoah of rights and values. Your dad was here to fight this authoritarian drift. If there are popular riots that will see you in the streets fighting for your freedom, know that I was among those in the Senate who were reacting. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] Be careful, however, you read not only the speeches of the House, but you also see what they voted for, because there are so many people who say they are against it, but in truth they vote and perhaps they have already agreed to vote for this crap. Some will pretend to have passed some very important amendments and to have changed what was wrong. They use, you know, my daughter, the lie I mentioned earlier. Daughter, as you know, I am not a constitutionalist but, unlike some young lady who has the presumption of being able to give lessons to those who know more than her by virtue of the investiture of Minister, I have humility. I have the humility to listen to those who, with contemptuous sarcasm, the lady in question calls professors, as if having dedicated her life to seriously studying constitutional law was now a fault, something old-fashioned and outdated. Blessed are the humble! Finally, I appeal to those who will have voted on these amendments. I accuse you of having attacked popular sovereignty in its bases and I accuse you of having given Italy norms that will make her slave; of having damaged freedom and of having given way to that tyranny that demeans men without tormenting them! I also accuse you of the blood that will be shed by our children to regain freedom! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u30	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u31	Mr. President, we've done the begging! Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on reforms I appreciated - I think it is a common feeling with my colleagues - the determination and courage of colleagues who, with intellectual honesty, wanted to represent their thoughts as free men. On the other hand, we did not appreciate the resignation that cross-border pervades this House. I would remind myself of the privilege of sitting in a democratic Parliament and being able to participate, as a free man, in the change of what is called the summit in the hierarchy of sources of law, I refer to the Constitution; it is a unique opportunity for us and for the Government. At this time of the debate, we want to reiterate our thought that - I can assure you - it is that of all the territories we proudly represent. But let's proceed with order. There is one thing that unites your Government with the Government of Monti, the Government of original sin: the will to centralize the powers of the State, freezing the local realities and decree, in fact, the tomb of the autonomy. This is your design. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is deeply contrary to the thinking and principles of the Northern League. But, then, why are we devoting so much energy to this reform? The North League has always been a democratic political force that aims to bring its own contribution and that of the many territories that we administer. Regardless of our temporary and variable geographical positioning in the constitutional arc - whether we are in majority or in opposition - we reaffirm that you must never forget that the League will always be that of struggle and government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The League is the League of Fight and Government. We are not interested in historical memory in the political scenario of this country: it would be too easy and certainly more rapid. We are aware that our voice is not that of the voting percentages that place us in the political chessboard of the country. Our voice is the voice of the Municipalities, it is the voice of the Provinces, it is the voice of the Regions that we administer; Regions, Provinces and Municipalities where the Northern League is the first political force. As far as the reform we are dealing with is concerned, let me make one thing clear: the constitutional model of reference for the Northern League remains and will always remain the devolution. Devolution is our reference model [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Yes, dear Undersecretary, precisely the devolution, that of the Federal Senate, the one that reduced the number of MPs (senators and MPs), the one that bestowed powers on the Premier, the one that conferred exclusive legislative competence on the Regions in matters of health, school, local police and so on. This was devolution. For us this - I repeat - remains the reference model for the country. This was the reform that would guarantee the country the possibility of projecting itself in the third millennium with solid and concrete foundations: a modern and competitive country also in the international context, given that however what happens in these days shows us that in the international sphere who commands it is always those who command it, they are always those. Today, dear Undersecretary Pizzetti, the political force that presents itself as an innovator of the constitutional structure of the country is the same that with the deception was responsible for the failure of the reform that I have just mentioned: devolution. You told the Italians that federalist reform would undermine the unity of the country. You terrified the Italians by telling them that federal state reform, devolution, was a selfish form all northern and that it would penalize the Mezzogiorno for the sole benefit of the North. Liars and hypocrites! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Unfortunately, the silly servants were also responsible for this affair, the same ones who today, increasingly embarrassed, are wandering in this Chamber, the same silly servants who, more or less unaware or with flaunted conviction, have given birth to the absolute evil: the Monti government, the dark evil, the absolute evil. That's him, the professor! The cure of all evils, save Italy, grow Italy and so on. Same as no-one else's doing it today. In fact, someone also makes the beggars when - rarely - he sees it appear. But why am I talking about Monti? Simple. The principles that inspired the politics of the Monti Government are identical to the principles that are inspiring the policy of the Renzi Government: Renzi equals Monti, Monti equals Renzi. Mr Casini, who I do not even share in punctuation, reminded me of this in his speech. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is, more powers to the central state and so on. Well, Pierferdi, I had no doubt! Here, too, the principles underlying your common policies are based on falsehood and prejudice. In fact, you as Monti tell the Italians the story that all the evils and problems of the country are generated by local authorities and, in particular, by the Provinces, which must therefore be eliminated: liars and hypocrites! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Your political mission is clear: it is only that of wanting to relegate the Provinces to second level entities. Second level? Who are you to deprive the Italians of the right to choose their representatives directly and democratically? Who are you? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Santangelo.]] I am quite mature, Mr President, for having attended (I speak in temporal order), not as a protagonist, to the low-political theatres in the choice of mayors before the citizens could do so directly. Today, thanks to the so-called Delrio law (I do not understand why I always have to say "delirious": excuse the joke, but it is the truth), we are already witnessing the return of these theater. If only that was the case: in fact, the first law you have aborted is so badly done that it projects into uncertainty the local reality and you, now aware, try to remedy by sticking in the constitutional reform attempts to correct. Pizzetti, I never expected this! With an attempt to erase the Provinces, you created institutional chaos. You compromised a political and administrative system that worked, replacing it with uncertainty and disorder. I repeat: with uncertainty and disorder. The wiser colleague Roberto Calderoli was right, who, in times of suspicion, proposed to abolish, not the useless Provinces, but the useless Provinces. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] If it is true that the chains of slavery bind only their hands, it is the mind that makes man free. Then, at the disposal of the master of duty, the foolish servants, ready to digest anything, including the fact that the Senate, by the will of your morphogen Renzi, is the remnant of an election; the rest or the free interpretation of a popular will. No elective Senate, so I'm Sandokan! If it is not yet clear, on behalf of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, I must reiterate that at the heart of our policy there is the interest of the people and territories in which people recognize themselves, made of institutions chosen directly by them and not by parties. Some have convinced themselves that the North League sits at the negotiating table with the reverential fear of those who fear the judgment of the people. Let it be clear to all that we are not afraid of the electoral gabby; we are always ready to face the will of the sovereign people; we are always ready for elections. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, intelligent people do not use silly servants; if anything, they should strive to awaken them and bring them back to normal life, as do the people who care about their dignity and their future. This is us! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u32	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a constitutionalist and, therefore, I will not go into purely technical matters. However, I had in my political activity various experiences (in the municipality, in the region and today in the Senate) and I approached the politics of the early nineties: at that time, since there was a breakdown of traditional political parties and above all a manifest disaffection by the electorate, some reforms were made to try to bring citizens closer to politics and above all to give citizens and voters decision-making ability, the ability to influence politics and institutions. There was a great change in the direct election of mayors. Before, as Mr Crosio mentioned earlier, it was in fact the political parties who, for various balances, decided who was the mayor of a city. In my opinion, it was rightly decided to give stability and capacity to voters to freely choose their own directors, to make direct elections. It was a conquest. I would remind you that at the time the percentage of voters in local, regional and, above all, political elections was between 75% and 80%. I have recently noticed, on the contrary, that there is a systematic decrease in the percentage of voters. It means, in my humble opinion, that there is obviously a disaffection on the part of the voter towards politics or rather that he does not think he can choose his own representatives directly and therefore feels a discouragement. Not only that, there is also the wish, recently expressed, to vote for some parties that represent the protest of the system. That is why I have considered and believe that policy should be to try to regain the confidence of citizens and, above all, give citizens the opportunity to choose. Unfortunately, I have noticed with regret that this has not happened lately and with just as much regret I have noticed that, during the institutional reforms made by the Berlusconi Government, there were political forces that tore their clothes because they thought it was an attack on the Constitution and especially that the Constitution was a moloch that could not be changed. And then they moved authoritative constitutionalists doing interviews, proposals, fierce criticism of the constitutional change. And those parties that were then absolutely opposed, stood up to defenders of these constitutionalists for what they said and that they clearly shared. It is with surprise that lately I know, on the contrary, that the constitutionalists themselves who express reservations and doubts about unconstitutional reform are being set aside, not considered by those same political forces. So I ask myself: is it not possible for some political forces to use this for their own electoral benefits and not in the overall interest of the country? That's the question I asked myself. In fact, I can support or oppose constitutional assumptions, but I claim my autonomy to be able to decide on the substance. It is said that some want reforms, others do not. I have listened not all these days but most of the speeches, I have not found a person who objects to constitutional reforms. They simply ask that constitutional reforms be done in the most general good of this country and not by making calculations of the votes expressed or not expressed by this or that party. And above all it is asked if possible to create order in what some consider a disorder of the local autonomy. I remember, having also had the experience of regional adviser, when one said - and I still share it - that the closer the power is to the elector and the better, because there is a possibility of control of its administrator. Well, today I discovered, on the occasion of the first constitutional bill, that on the contrary the famous federalism, the famous autonomy of the Regions were seen as something to be deleted. We moved from a moment of exaltation of regionalism to a form of control to remove competence to regionalism. I am the first to argue that the Regions have not always given a good image of themselves - for goodness' sake - but I would like to remind you, being a Lombard citizen, that thanks to that type of reform some Regions have dramatically and greatly improved the services to their citizens, in every sense, maybe even with some sin but who is without sin throws the first stone. I do not agree to make - as always - immediate choices, daring them and immediately after, on the contrary, throwing the child with dirty water. Some changes in the substance are probably necessary, but from this to what was done in the first draft we are going through a great deal. Therefore, there has been an amendment to Title V in the text proposed by the Commission. I would not, in fact, like this attempt to bring back to the central level all the competences, in a form of neocentralism that hovered in some political forces, determine the flattening down of the services that the Regions have proposed to their citizens. If there is any region that has misbehaved, that has spent beyond measure the public resources, not in the interest of the citizens but for other interests, this must be policed and put under control; but it is not conceivable that the Regions that have the lowest management costs possible and the services to which they look not only from Italy, but also from abroad are not safeguarded. I come to the fundamental question: how can politics take back, in particular, the confidence of its citizens? I am in favour - and I say this - of the direct election of the Senate. I do not understand those who say that the Regions are a den of evildoers and who, at the same time, want to assign to the same Regions, to the regional councillors, the appointment of senators. Something doesn't add up to this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] I am a guarantor and I am convinced that the regions have done their job and above all that regional councillors, as well as mayors, if they want to play their role, cannot have double and triple positions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] This, in fact, had always been told to me: we must fight double positions; everyone must have his own task to carry it out to the best. I do not understand why now, on the contrary, we must have double and triple assignments. I am told that one of the reasons is savings in allowances. But it is the same parties that at other times told me that every citizen must be given the opportunity to deal with politics and that it cannot be allowed only the wealthy and the caste to be able to approach politics. Then, administrators and politicians must also be given some guarantees of an economic nature in order to be autonomous, not to be subject to offers and not to be conditioned. If that doesn't count anymore, let's say so. I, therefore, personally, if you want to do, am for direct election. Then we also change from the point of view of macro-regions or other aspects that lead to political savings; but cost policy, hiding behind these, is cost democracy and I think it is a mistake. They are for direct election or in any case to introduce the changes that some of my colleagues, including Senator Caliendo, and other senators have stated. [[Recalls of the President]] I agree with all this, and I therefore call for the incompatibility between the position of regional councillor and the position of senator to be established. It is said: you can find different ways of election. Why is it not said to a citizen who chooses his own representative in the Region that that regional councillor could become a senator? There are different areas and ways to do this. I don't understand why you don't want to do this. I believe that the speeches I have heard in this House are about the need for a change. I am not prejudiced against it and, when I take decisions, I am used to doing so at the end of the debate, because I believe that there can be a great chance of improving the text that came out of the Commission. Finally, I would like to make a suggestion to the President-in-Office of the Council: in politics, as in life, we must also be humble, we must never be arrogant. There is a small problem that I think concerns Premier Renzi: he presented himself as the premier who would bring a reform a month, but so far I have not seen one. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Pelino and Minzolini]] He went to Europe saying he wanted to make a big voice, but so far, as far as I know, he has brought nothing home, but a few wands from his so-called German allies. Then I ask him more humility, more sharing of choices and give him advice: come, please, here in the Senate, where the first time he presented himself in a rather arrogant way and I dare say uneducated; visit the Sala Maccari of Palazzo Madama, where there is the following sentence of Niccolò Machiavelli referring to the Roman Senate: No bad luck ever made them abject and no good luck made them insolent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Di Maggio and Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u34	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u35	Mr President, we have appreciated the understatement and sobriety with which the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, introduced the debate on the amendment of the second part of the Constitution, which finally arrives in the Senate with the credible prospect of final approval within the technical times of the constitutional revision. This is an event that has been expected for more than 30 years, during which endless discussions have developed. It was remembered by President Casini, evocating the myth of Sisyphus, and some time ago Gian Antonio Stella remembered how already in 1985 Pietro Ingrao in the correspondence with Bobbio wished for the monocameral solution and wrote: By maintaining the pluralistic system of the Constitution one can and must go to a simplification and rationalization of the system of parliamentary government. Here is a key reform that is even symbolic: I am referring to the single-camera solution. It is before everyone's eyes the absurd repetition of debates, legislative decisions, inspection interventions, the exorbitance of the number of parliamentarians (about 1,000!), the heavy defects of coordination in the action of the two branches of Parliament, the archaicity of the subdivisions and the number of the Commissions. I would also like to remind my friend Tocci, who at that time was very close to Pietro Ingrao. I therefore believe that it should be stressed with due emphasis that we are on the eve of an important change in the culture of our political system; a culture too long characterized by the fear of change, by the spirit of conservation which, even in constitutional matters, has concerned the left who, hiding behind the alibi of the uncomfortable authoritarian risk, has constantly, if not opposed, surely postponed any modification of the institutional system that went in the direction of simplification, efficiency, a strengthening of decision-making capacity, which was consistent with the changes and complexity of the phenomena to be governed and the interaction between the plurality of the levels of government in which sovereignty was articulated. The result was a immobility that had the only and very imperfect exception in the modification of Title V which, approved without a simultaneous adaptation of the constitutional organization of the state level of government, had the effect of accentuating the fragmentation of decisions, localism, the expansion of spending, weakening the already weak competitiveness of our economic system, with the result that the alleged defence of the Constitution has produced the effect of a serious delegitimization precisely of that constitutional system that was wanted to defend and which instead was increasingly perceived by citizens as incapable of responding to the needs of the economy and society. Even today we see the same culture re-emerged in this House with the repositioning of the fear of oppression and authoritarian risk, when it is before everyone's eyes that the Italian problem was exactly the opposite, that of the decision-making impotence produced by the reciprocal powers of prohibition. And it is this inability to decide and respond to social needs that has made the cost of institutions intolerable for citizens and transformed in their eyes the whole political class into parasites that consume public resources without producing useful results for the country. It is an opinion that weighs on all of us and that I believe should make us, first of all, exponents of that political class so poorly respected, feel the urgency of a ransom that, apart from the good will of the individual, can only result from a reform that makes the institutions functional and useful, that only in this way will they become truly representative of the will and interests of the people. So the acceleration that the Government has impressed on the process of constitutional revision is not a symptom of superficial hastyness, but it expresses the urgency to recover lost time. This said and acknowledged to the Government the merit of the strong push for the realization of the reform process, it must be said, however, that at least in the initial proposal, a strong, coherent and convincing vision of bicameralism differentiated from which to bring down the functions of the Senate and, consequently, its composition. The Commission has worked usefully on this, which, abandoned the possible suggestions of a Senate of competences, has instead outlined a Senate of legislative link between State, Regions and European institutions, with a contained presence of mayors able to represent the needs of the local government, a government that remains the real hinge between institutions and citizens. Of course, it is understandable and I understand that a government permeated by the culture of the mayors, their tradition and the culture of the local administrators can hardly accept the idea that the regional councillors, perhaps the least qualified and statistically corrupt political class of the Republic, can be entrusted with the relaunch of our parliamentary institutions, a doubt that I personally share. But then it would have been necessary a far more courageous and radical revision of Title V, a definitive overcoming of Regions historically defined as statistical entities and terminals of decentralised functions of the State, in order to arrive at a revision that would make the physiognomy of the Regions consistent with the different mission that the reform of 2000 had entrusted them: a drastic reduction then of the number of Regions, that would configure them as strategic planning agencies and promotion of the economic development of the territories. For example, Germany, with more than 80 million inhabitants, has 16 Länder, while Italy, with 60 million inhabitants, has 20 regions. But this hypothesis, of course, would have found a formidable resistance: not only the opposition of the regional political class, but now that of the strong political, economic and administrative interests, coagulated around the regional management of health expenditure, a sixth of the public expenditure, which was the true centre of gravity of the regional institution and whose force of attraction effectively prevented, after 2000, a qualification of the identity and role of the Regions. Beware: to those who believe that the only way to legitimize the institutions is the direct election I would like to point out that, in the case of the Regions, the direct election of the Presidents has pushed the regional institution to continue to play a role of direct administration in direct contact with the citizens - obviously the contact is essential for the collection of the electoral consent - rather than the less visible one of programming and legislation that should instead have assumed the Region with the reform. In the absence of this qualitative leap, however, today it is essential to complete and make more rational Title V approved in 2000: first of all to correct the system of competences (we think only of the large network infrastructures, energy and telecommunications, whose regionalisation has slowed down strategic investments for the country or the problems that have resulted from the absence of an efficient clause of national supremacy); but even more so to straighten out that exclusively intergovernmental twist that the absence of a participation of the Regions in the process of formation of state legislation and the concentration in the State-Regions Conference of all interinstitutional coordination functions has determined in recent years. The State-Regions Conference over the years has transformed itself from an intergovernmental coordination of public policies to a opaque legislative codecision forum, with the further, I believe, non-secondary, effect of increasingly marginalizing the elected assemblies of the Regions. If this is the key to drawing the physiognomy of the new Senate, i.e. the key to the completion of a federalist state on the model of other European democracies, certainly, which cannot be called authoritarian, then it is necessary to draw the full consequences of this choice. A choice that profoundly differentiates the two Chambers by title of legitimacy, reason of representation and functions. Moreover, Article 1 of the Constitutional Charter, often - not always in this regard - invoked in this debate, legitimizes this choice when it states that popular sovereignty is exercised in the forms and within the limits indicated by the Constitution. Thus the exercise of sovereignty does not end in a single form, that is, in the direct election of its representatives, but can be articulated in a plurality of forms aimed at the most effective functioning of the institutional organization, of the powers and prerogatives of the different organs. It should be pointed out that, on the finalistic level, the different configuration of the Senate compared to that of the Chamber is also based on Article 5 of the Constitution, which lays down among the fundamental principles the promotion of local autonomy by requiring that to this end not only the principles of the Constitution but also the methods of legislation should be adapted to the needs of autonomy and decentralisation. Therefore the indirect election of senators also meets the criteria of differentiation and appropriateness that we trace in the entire constitutional plot of the organization of the Republic and that the Charter uses to ensure a better coincidence between the characteristics of the organ and the exercise of functions. We may be opposed to this reform, but we must honestly state the reasons for it. Because the unspoken rejection of the senate's non-electivity is the non-acceptance of a depowered Senate on the political level. The electivity is actually the Trojan horse through which we think we can gradually return to a bicameralism tending to be equal; the transformist illusion of a reform that, in the end, can bring everything back as it was before, as many times has happened in Italy. However, once the choice of differentiation has been made, it must be followed consistently. And here, in our view, the text presents several critical points on which it will be good to speak now, in this debate and in this debate. We cannot allow ourselves to be mistaken because our approach to reforms, and even more so, to the reforms of the Constitution is not pragmatic and experimental. The amendment of the Constitution is for us a very complex, almost dramatic, political operation. We have seen what has happened with Title V: it has taken 14 years (as long as this is really the good time) to introduce some changes on which for years there is a very wide agreement and the failure to introduce those correctives has produced enormous failures. That is why we cannot make mistakes, because we cannot afford a reform in half or a reform that does not work. The first point then is the competence of the Senate. The subjects in which the Senate's proposals can only be overcome by an absolute majority must be reviewed and limited: first, the budget laws, but not only; the measures relating to the activation of the national supremacy clause and the exercise of substitute powers. In this case, the power to ban the Senate would weaken the State's ability to guarantee its interest and national unity, with the risk of re-proposing the quo ante situation. And again, there are the laws related to federalism, to assimilate to the fiscal and budgetary laws that have a profound impact on the political direction. Another point is the question of the rules on the immunity of senators, whose equivalence with that of Members is not consistent, in our opinion, with the choice of differentiation. In fact, the senators, unlike Members, will have a mandate, because they are elected by the Regional Councils to represent their bodies. They will not therefore represent the entire nation, like the elected by the people, for the exercise of a full political mandate. The arrest of the senators does not affect or affect the political majority, nor the stability of the government. It is difficult, however, to distinguish the acts carried out as senators from those carried out as regional advisers which, therefore, as senators, would have a double status. Moreover, as has been pointed out several times, the power of the majority in the election of the guarantee bodies will certainly have to be rebalanced, bearing in mind, however, that this problem does not arise with the current reform, but it has been posed for a long time, that is, since the transition from the proportional electoral system, on which the qualified quorums provided by the Constitution were built, to the majority electoral systems Mattarellum and Porcellum. It is therefore also the electoral law that will have to guarantee the pluralism of representation and guarantees. Finally, we will have to put a few posts - and here my opinion is exactly the opposite of that of my colleague Bisinella - because the regional system, now guaranteed by the new Senate, exercises its autonomy in the interests of the whole nation and there are therefore the instruments to prevent the harmful results from the financial point of view of the degenerative self-referentiality that characterized the management of some regions. Colleagues, I believe that the Senate in these days is called, by this decision, to a great test of responsibility and also of generosity: it must show that it knows how to proceed to its self-form in the name of such virtues, responsibility and generosity. Citizens, national and international observers look to this discussion and to the outcome of our work to understand if it is really possible to believe in the capacity for change of our country, to which we look with suspicion, mistrust and disenchantment. In order to get Italy back on track, to create the conditions of growth, of the attraction of investment and of job creation, we expect reforms that are equally demanding - if not even more - but decisive for economic recovery: I am referring to labour market reform and that of justice, issues on which, as for constitutional reforms, politics has been postponing every decision for decades. The credibility of this path lies in our hands today: for this reason I hope that we will not disappoint the hopes that have been aroused in the country. Another failure would not be forgiven and I believe that, first of all, we could not forgive ourselves for it first. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Finocchiaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u36	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, after the attempts that lasted more than 30 years, we should finally come to the conclusion in the coming months of a debate on the renewal of the institutional structure of our country. In fact, following the examination in the Commission of the constitutional revision of Title I and Title V of the Constitution - and I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senators Finocchiaro and Calderoli, for the great work done and for their competence - we are at a parliamentary stage that sees us as protagonists of a challenging epochal turning point for such reforms that involves the same credibility of the entire country system. In this sense, 2013 was decisive, because those resistances have begun to fall, especially of a substantial part of the media and academic world, which cleared every attempt to reform our Parliament, with pre-emptive and prejudiced positions, perhaps the result of unjustified fears for the proper reorganization of the institutional and democratic structures of the State. In fact - and we know it well - some resistances against constitutional innovation are still present, but we think it is an anachronistic attitude of conservation and a immobilism that does not hide the unjustified fear of alleged authoritarian curvatures behind the reforms. In fact, we are not here to change everything so that nothing changes - to quote the ingenious Cattopardiana expression of Tomasi of Lampedusa - but I believe that the return of a more responsible policy is finally the premise for the updating of the Italian Constitution. That of the Senate is an important reform because it concerns the constitutional architecture that supports the rule of law, namely the relationship and the separate autonomy of the constitutional powers: the legislative, the executive and the judicial. And in this direction goes the constitutional bill presented by the Government, with the important changes made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which is based on some fundamental pillars such as the overcoming of bicameralism, the new composition of the Senate of the self-governments, the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution and the reorganization of the system of territorial autonomy and the abolition of CNEL. With regard to overcoming the bicameralism of equality, the realization of a Senate representing the autonomy seems to be able to overcome the difficulties that have emerged in recent years. The perfect bicameralism was obviously a form of guarantee wanted by the constituent Fathers at the beginning of the republican experience, in order to highlight the strength and the need for a democratic dialogue in Parliament at the expense of the restricted decision-making of the Executive; but today this decision-making mechanism seems to be no longer adapted to the speed of the times we live. Hence the need to specify and alter the functions between the two branches of Parliament in order to make each Chamber a single chamber for functions, which is indispensable for a smooth implementation of the legislative procedure. Therefore, the Chamber of Deputies will be the sole holder of the relationship of trust with the Government and will function as a political orientation, as well as the legislative function and control of the government's work. It therefore goes beyond the idea of two parliamentary assemblies in which the one constitutes, by identity of composition and functions, the mere duplication of the other and outlines a different articulation of the bicameral system, a bicameralism "asymmetric" on the basis of experiences of other European countries, in order to create a Senate of the autonomouss for one verse, representative of the territories and, for the other, not connected to the Government by the trust relationship. The new plant, inspired by the solutions chosen by the great European democracies, is based on the different representation between the two chambers: national for the Chamber of Deputies and territorial for the Senate. There is also a different structure of relations between the House and the Senate within the legislative process with laws that are the main competence of one of the two branches of the Parliament and of laws with equal competence. But the new composition of the Senate is functional also from the point of view of the numerical composition; a lightening that allows speed in the decisions and easy to find agreements in the different issues or simplification of the political and territorial representation. The appointment of a part of the senators is entrusted to the Regions and municipalities that have already obtained legitimacy by universal and direct suffrage by the citizens. As is clear, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not at all in front of an assembly of 'named' but elected, with a number of members whose composition between representatives of regions and municipalities is in full harmony with the principle of equal ordination and uniformity also in terms of democratic representation as enshrined in Article 114 of the Constitution. I note, however, that the state remains an imbalance, as has been pointed out by the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, between the numerical composition of the Senate and that of the Chamber that remains unchanged, of which I hope a reduction in order to achieve a fair proportion in the composition between the two Chambers. In addition, and I say this in my own personal capacity - while remaining in line with that of the New Right Centre - I would have preferred a system of direct election of the new senators combined with the injections of the Regional Councils. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of an asymmetrical bicameral parliamentarism is also a useful corrective to the dysfunctions that have been highlighted because of the schematicism resulting from the list of subjects, as currently provided for in Article 117 of the Constitution. In fact, a first positive aspect of the proposal contained in the constitutional revision bill is that it has brought back to the competence of the state legislature matters that need a discipline inspired by the principle of national interest: for example, the large transport and navigation networks; the production, transport and distribution of energy; the organization of communication; the coordination of public finance and the tax system; the national system of civil protection; the general rules on the government of the territory and urban planning. In a framework of simplification of the criteria of division of legislative competence the concurrent competence is exceeded and all competences not expressly attributed to the State competence are assigned to the Regions, including a clause of state supremacy to protect the unitary interests. Therefore, in matters of residual regional competence, legislative power could be attracted at State level, if it were required to protect legal unity or economic unity, or if it is necessary to implement economic and social programmes and reforms of national interest. It is quite clear that the current reform strengthens the decision-making power of the Government and the political majority that expresses it, and it is therefore necessary, if Italy wants to approach a liberal democracy not only in its name, that it endows itself with a strong Executive, also with equally strong political and institutional balances, indispensable for a Government that does not become a "regime," no matter what color. A joint House, thanks to the majority with full powers over trust and budget, will therefore have to be joined by a Senate that is an expression as well as of the territories also of the pluralism of the guidelines, so that it can perform without conformism to the delicate functions of the constitutional, electoral and control laws as well as to European and regional affairs. At the top of the institutions it will be more than ever opportune to elect a President of the Republic who is not the expression of pre-established Bulgarian majorities, and hence the need to broaden the audience of voters. It will also be necessary that courts and guarantee bodies, such as the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, are not a monopoly of the governmental majority, and therefore are composed of non-monocolour bodies. On these points, I hope that the text we are debating in this House will be improved. All Western countries are based on balanced mechanisms that guarantee the proper functioning of democracy and marginalize the totalizing powers; only in this way can we be the "normal country" that we all want to reform. There are, of course, more ways of reforming the institutional order, but it is clear that the more rightly the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism is accentuated and the option for a Senate of guarantees is discarded, preferring a second-degree expression of the Regional Councils, the more the system of election of the only representative House of popular sovereignty, must be the result of a high mediation between the different needs to be compose and not of a downward compromise. I believe that the Italicum bill approved by the House is overly unbalanced in favour of governability to the detriment of representation. Some changes are needed that would make the positions on the reform of the Senate much more readable, allowing to distinguish, inside and outside the majority, the virtuous objections from the instrumental oppositions. It is clear to all that it would be wrong to consider the constitutional reform that we are dealing with outside a systemic and organic vision and the new electoral law. I shall conclude, Mr President and colleagues, of course, that what has been said so far shows the validity of the draft in question, in which the key words that emerge are'sovereignty', 'governability','simplification','responsibility' and'subsidiarity': change, in short! Someone said that some changes are so slow that you don't notice, while others are so fast that they don't notice you. This is a reflection that must make us hope that the debate can have a favourable and shared path, so that it can expand the parliamentary basis of consensus, because our time requires the necessary innovations of the institutions, and that politics has a duty to carry on and conclude. And nobody can escape the historical significance of this reform, as I have already mentioned before, certainly the most important of our Republic, a reform that must now be done but that must be done well. We are far beyond simply reducing the number of Members, a context in which each of us must be as responsible as the protagonist. As for responsibility and commitment, the reform also offers us a reason for satisfaction, because out of all rhetoric we are definitely starting to give a new structure to the institutions of the country. Begin by doing what is necessary, then what is possible. And all of a sudden you'll be surprised to do the impossible. This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is a phrase by Saint Francis of Assisi. And with the words of a saint and not of a politician - who constitute a concrete life programme applicable also to the action and morale of politics itself - I conclude my speech, urging everyone to share and therefore approve in the right times this reform, also because in the immediate future there are other challenges, namely the many, real problems, that afflict Italians: issues (such as the serious economic crisis and unemployment) for which citizens ask us and will rightly continue to ask us for the necessary and urgent solutions. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u38	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there has been a parliamentary phase which I do not hesitate to define as historic because several years have passed and many political scenarios have taken place since the last time something similar to constitutional reform has arrived in this House. I have forgotten in recent years, but there has never been the courage to propose such an ambitious reform. This is a sign that we are aware of the need to start a change. Already awareness alone represents a first major reform. I would therefore like to thank those who are making this path possible, the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli, the colleagues from the 1st Commission and all those who, with willingness and humility, are making themselves available in this debate. It is as if a project was being realized that for years has been limited to being a distant wish, a project that has all been vague, but lacking that political input able to move to the so delicate implementation phase. The question of whether or not to make reforms, as I said, has distant roots dating back to the late 1970s, when internal crises and social demands highlighted the inadequacy of traditional representation dynamics. In Italy, however, from the emergence of the problem to the unfortunately time-consuming awareness. Over the years it has won that faction which has preferred to condemn the country to a comfortable democratic backwardness, fueled by the lack of representation and by majorities never fully such. So, with this heavy legacy, we are all faced with a choice: to choose to bring Italy among the democratic powers by opting for a multi-level constitutionalism harmonious with the European parameters or to remain immobile just because they made us believe that Italy is a different country. Different from who, gentlemen? Are we not in this House making a difference or do we have to admit that there are lobbyists who should decide for us the best institutional structure in this country? As has been said, today we are discussing the urgent need to contextualize the instruments of legislative power and democratic representation to a changing scenario, because the most critical point has been reached in the aftermath of the 2013 elections, where it has become clear to us all the unsustainableness of institutional immobilism that we have been dragging for 60 years. In fact, it is no longer possible to overcome institutional impasses with coffee table agreements; it is time to assume its responsibilities and I decided to do so, from the first moment, by taking sides with those who proposed the reforms and by signing all the bills inspired by the models of institutional and European reorganization. Let us be clear: reforming the Constitution to overcome the much-criticized perfect bicameralism does not mean neglecting the problems. We are a firm country and the immobilism of the labour market, of economic growth are only the socio-economic back of a profound limit that concerns precisely the functioning of these classrooms. Instead of looking at all this just as a test bench for the Renzi Government waiting passively on the river bed, we should all put our faces on after thirty years of hypocrisy. Those who point the finger at this reform are the same ones who cyclically shout at the scandal before yet another decree-law. On the contrary, paradoxically, some of those who call for the defense of democracy and the urgency of a reform programme are the same ones who occupy the parliamentary ranks even for decades, children of that same political season that literally bogged down the country, boycotting any hypothesis of change. This confirms that when it comes to changing the rules of the game you prefer the quiet living. We have heard a bit of everything in this House. There are even those who claimed that, with this reform, an authoritarian democracy would begin. These are statements that, seen from the outside, would seem to foretell a coup rather than a constitutional reform. One thing is to say that this structure must be changed, another is to speak free of charge of authoritarianism at such a delicate time for the country: we risk to confuse the citizens further. But what do we want? The continuation of immobilism with a democracy that can be adjusted to our party moods? Or change the rules of the game to do better and better? Let it be clear that, without the reformer courage, the country risks being held captive by a perennial "inciucio" inherited from the First Republic and based on a constant game of balance, able to conceal the real responsibilities of an entire political generation. The Cattopardesca machine of the maintenance of the institutional status quo has made Italy the most stable country in Europe in particular from the point of view of public affairs. This is a limit that emerged more with the current crisis. Precisely for this reason, wasn't overcoming the perfect bicameralism the common goal, always flagged as the only solution to lighten the decision-making process? So, why are we talking about authoritarian drift today? The Senate, in the new constitutional model, is a body of verification and control and is completely not subordinate to the Chamber, also in view of the fact that full operational equality between the two Chambers is a contradiction of which Italy has the primacy. It is worth pointing out that the modification of the constitutional architecture must be a priority over the same electoral reform, because without one we cannot hope to arrive at the other. The debate is certainly necessary, but it cannot be confused with a lawful amendment or the accusations of illegality, fueled by those who want nothing to change. This measure has the ambition of harmonising two constitutional presuppositions, the subject of historic debate: on the one hand, bicameralism; on the other, regionalism. This quest for harmony has led to a redesign of a Senate representative of territorial realities, reflecting the experience of European democracies. An important feature must be sought on the side of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, in particular as regards overcoming the most critical points, extending, among other things, the exclusive competence of the State on certain matters of strategic value. The text also addresses the strengthening of the role of the Government in Parliament. In order to exorcise the continuous recourse to the decree of urgency, which represents one of the most critical instruments of the current system, this project, despite the insinuations of the detractors, leads to a greater responsibility of the Government, failing the laces and laces that have so far represented an alibi for the action of the Executive. As I said, the text before us is certainly not a panacea, with delicate issues that deserve to be resolved. This is a lawful and non-instrumental observation. Let us consider, for example, the rewording of Article 57 of the Constitution. From the new parterre of members, is excluded a representative presence of the foreign circuit, understood as twenty-first Italian Region. By contrast, the current Article 48 of the Constitution provides for the exercise of the right to vote of citizens residing abroad only for the election of the House, introducing a disharmonious level of representation in the two Chambers. But the foreign constituency - like the others - is one of the electoral districts in which the territory is divided for the election of a collegiate body. Therefore, the overcoming of the direct electivity of the representatives of the new Senate should not correspond to the removal of the foreign constituency, but to its recontextualization within the new parameters of representation. The failure of the conditions of direct elected representatives has legitimized a transition of the concept of representation area from the regional electoral constituency to the region itself. Therefore, the abolition of such representation would be tantamount to admitting its subalternity with respect to the other Italian electoral districts, which today are equivalent, in accordance with the new Article 57, to the individual Italian Regions. With these reflections I do not intend to defend a partisan interest, as I myself express that area of representation, but to conduct a reasoning of law that drives the taking of responsibility of which I spoke before, convinced that constitutional renewal and legitimacy must follow the same path. I wanted to put this issue right from the start of the parliamentary reform process, discuss it with Minister Boschi and compare it with the first Commission, always taking care to distinguish it from my desire to support the reform process, since it is two distinct paths. It is this awareness that has led me to table amendments and to table an agenda. With this I do not want to attack those who maintain a different position. I understand who, with a different opinion, believes that the representation, within the new Senate, can assume a different physiognomy. One is intellectually free and each works by implementing the bearing of his own experience. I wanted to make a different choice by transforming my political experience into a proposal, perhaps taking the most complex path: to put myself at the forefront of the challenge of reforms and not backing down, however, from pointing out what still is possible and necessary to do without barricading me behind comfortable positions of unproductive condescendingness. There are no party interests, party agreements or personal ambitions behind this. There is only the sincere and transparent will to be the bearer of a change. And that is precisely the bravest choice. Ladies and gentlemen, the prerequisites for overcoming the ford are all there. It is up to us to assume the responsibility of passing through it with awareness, putting aside, once and for all, that computer approach from First Republic whose trail of damage is still before our eyes. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have thought for a long time about how to intervene in this House on a reform which, after almost seventy years, is going to radically modify our Constitution. I have retraced the course of these decades and reflected on the significance of the current political moment also in relation to what happened in the months preceding the entry into force of our noble Constitutional Charter. I will not talk about it with nostalgic deference, I am not old enough to look at the Constitution of our Fathers as an untouchable totem. My brief parliamentary experience, then, has made me firm in the awareness that as long as we do not break down the logic of corporate defense to the extreme (and by corporation I do not mean only that political) you will never get the sign of true change. I feel that today I represent that generation that with almost movementist courage wants to update, compared to an Italy that no longer exists, the rules underlying our civil coexistence without giving in to the temptation of a sudden and fruitless anti-political. De Gasperi and Togliatti, Calamandrei and La Pira were far from being able to discuss the great issues that guaranteed a stable future for a troubled country: the defence of the rights and the recognition of the duties of every Italian citizen, the principle of secularism of the State, the defence of the pluralism of ideas, the protection of work and the family, the principles of equality, unity and indivisibility of the Republic. Yet, today as then, we are called to rebuild. Then it was a material reconstruction: Italy was to be rebuilt from the ashes of a war that had changed the face and destiny of our country. We came out of five years of conflict and winds of fascism, in some way, commissioners from those who had freed us and brought peace back. Much, if not all, of what was then written in the Charter responded to the need to protect our fragile democracy. Today we are called to another reconstruction, no less challenging from the point of view of democratic value: today we must rebuild the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions. We must do this in order to consolidate a democracy that is no longer fragile, but sceptical, and even today it feels somehow under the control of that Europe that asks us for courageous and modern reforms. Dear colleagues, we are not the constituent Fathers of the Nation and we will probably not end up in the bust room of this noble Palace. However, a Palace that, like our Fathers, we want to continue to honor with a reform that contains all the traits of a profound change. The text that we are about to debate and vote responds to many indisputable needs of a country that wants to look to the future. Our country needs institutions capable of timely and effective political decisions and stable and lasting governments. There is a need for a greater link between the two entities with legislative power, the State and the Regions, in order to avoid overlaps and conflicts of competence that generate constitutional litigation and legal uncertainty. There is also a need for a greater link with Europe and the European Parliament, because if we ask for a different Europe, then we cannot have a Parliament that simply ratifys the directives from Brussels. We must also recover the errors of the reform of Title V of 2001, bringing back to the State a number of matters improperly attributed to the Regions. To these and to other needs we are called, with responsibility, to give answers. There will be only one Chamber that grants and revokes the confidence to the Government and finally approves the laws, overcoming that perfect bicameralism that now only Italy preserves in Europe. Then there will be the new Senate that will increase and enhance the role of the Regions, but at the same time it will ensure that the implementation of the autonomous principle takes place in a framework of interinstitutional cooperation and composition of the authorities of the territories with the general interest of the country and that such composition takes place in political and non-judicial. The new Senate will also participate in both the ascending and descending stages of European standardisation. It will therefore play its role as a link both in the substate direction, that is, towards the regions, and in the suprastate direction, that is, towards Europe. Finally, with regard to Title V, Part II, of the Constitution, we are finally changing towards a profoundly wrong and incomplete reform, which had given the Regions matters as it does not happen even in federal states, without the necessary counterweight and link. The reform we are debating brings back to the State a wide range of matters unduly attributed to the Regions, abolishes competing matters, introduces the state supremacy clause and above all gives flexibility to the division of competences precisely because it assigns the political-parliamentary seat the fundamental task of settling disputes and determining who does what. The reform also introduces responsible federalism through the introduction of so-called standard costs. What we are talking about is a reform deeply improved by parliamentary work and which nevertheless bears the sign of the contribution of the New Right Centre in terms of general installation because it reproduces in almost all the text proposed by the committee set up during the Led Government by the former Minister Quagliariello and also in the specific contributions approved in the Commission. We would like to make a final contribution here in this House on the part concerning the Senate's participation in the draft budget law. We believe that this part should be thoroughly reviewed to eliminate an abnormal conditioning power in the absence of a trusted relationship with the Government, which would inevitably lead to an increase in public finance. What we today, after these months of work, provide are some of the possible answers to the needs of modernising our institutions, but we do not want to hide behind the usual practice that requires decades of debate on the best possible solution, and then not to make any political decision. It's time for responsibility. It is time to decide on reforms. And we assume that responsibility. The rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, pointed this out that doubts and uncertainties similar to ours also gripped the constituent Fathers, who finally made decisions that were the daughters of that historical period. Well, here today we give our answers, with a reform that is certainly the daughter of our time. It will judge the time if it will be, as we believe, also an epochal reform. Will it suffice how much we are deciding to give back to the Italian institutions better and, above all, a better relationship with the institutions? It'll depend on us. Because even the best reform will fail without good politicians who will make it live and implement it. [[Applause from Senator Giuseppe Esposito.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u43	Mr President, Senators and Senators, in waiting for my turn to take the floor in this exceptional parliamentary marathon, I have been seized by various states of mind. I also thought I'd give it up. I fear the fear of echoing high-profile interventions and end up damaging the meaning and meaning of the speeches here uttered for which - for my personal use and consumption - I have prepared some unique rankings divided into categories, such as the depth of the arguments, the ability to use appropriate quotations and quality, for the detailed legal contributions and, finally, for the exercises of style. And the ranking - I can assure you - consists mainly of prominent positions, all from podium. I have listened to high speeches, I have heard extensive interventions on constitutional reforms and the Senate reform law with pangs and emotions of mind. And I've learned a lot. But I consider it useful to participate in the debate by providing a modest key to my reading of what is happening, the risk already feared by some authoritative colleagues on the negative results for the nation and for the citizens that this bill bears with it. It is my personal interpretation of the serious moment that we live in the Senate and in Italy for the accelerated integrity impressed by the Government to the discussion of a contradictory model of reform of the so-called Upper House and the generic action provided by the Government in an attempt to manage Italian emergencies. All this revolves around the sudden concept of doing as if it were. It's the greatest danger. As if employment, investment, production were not already a red alarm! As if the vote on Europeans had changed the balance in the Italian Parliament. As if the comparisons - between bon ton and hardness - with Merkel, Barroso, Schaeuble were harmless skirmishes. Above all, make it as if the time for truly urgent reforms, which are truly priorities, was not a decisive variable. Assuming that Senate reform isn't smoke in the eyes, when will it begin to affect concretely? When will the shareholders - that is, our fellow citizens - collect the dividers? And what is the rating attributable in Europe to a hypothesis of reform of the Senate of the Republic? When will the symbolic character of the 80 euros become perceptible, albeit slight, growth in consumption? When will the assumption of consumption growth become investment growth? Monti, Letta, Renzi. We have witnessed a kind of peregrinatio. Too soon, but to look at the results, very little in a long time. With regard to the variable time in Italy and Europe and its insufficient appreciation by the current political governance, I would remind you that the original idea of Prime Minister Renzi and Minister Padoan was to ask Europe for even more time without allowing anything to predict whether this plays for or against the interests of Italians. The headlines are all dedicated to the half full glass. The emptiness of the debt to 135% of GDP, destined to increase again this year while the fiscal compact requires it to go down at a certain speed, is relegated in line with the articles. The same is true of the growth forecasts and the deflation threshold. While nothing has spared us of the political policy, between the end of the 2007-2013 cycle and the start of that 2014-2020. There are some €170 billion in European funds and national and regional co-financing at stake. I note, in the astonishing general indifference, that 70 percent of this mountain of money is destined to the South where, for one verse, the collapse of investment and employment is well beyond the guard threshold and, for the other, survival strategies - from black money to the immense areas of tax and contributory evasion - are increasingly consolidating a fearful culture of hostility towards the State and the institutions (including the Senate, but then it will be the turn of the House, hoping to stop us here). In this scenario, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is vital that national co-financing quotas be decommissioned from the European Stability Pact and those of Regions and Municipalities from the Internal Stability Pact. If this does not happen, we are not facing the umpteenth opportunity lost by this nation, but the loss of the last opportunity to combine financial recovery and growth. And our European semester could be an opportunity not seized by this Government and this majority to make a new spirit of time blow, in the firm time of the clichés in our past, of which the current Premier feeds his communication to special effects. The worries, if not the angers, that shake the politics on the reform of the Senate deserve great respect and there is the certainty of assisting helpless to the destruction of Sagunto, dum Romae consulitur. Well, what does the Renzi Government do in this delicate passage of national life, while the European and global crisis asks us in urgent terms about the timeliness and effectiveness of the measures taken? The Renzi Government forces us to a debate marathon between the Commissions and the House's work, giving rise to the goal of doing as if it did, but actually doing nothing concrete to find the square. The time of the crisis and the time of politics must find harmony, like the link between words and things. Out of metaphor, if the whole story of the 80 euros were to be, as is likely, revealed a colossal nonsense, an atrocious electoral mockery to compensate with those that ECOFIN has defined with explicit hardness additional forces (which translated into common language means financial maneuver of autumn, made of taxes and taxes), then it would be shown in all its miserability this time wasted in the declamations: thunder over everything; affect nothing or almost. Maybe, dear President Renzi, time is running out. It is time to ask ourselves, therefore, whether the Renzi Government is a luxury that we can afford. In the same way as these considerations, the call to the Government to apply to real emergencies, those that can - ahinoi - become exitial, becomes more pressing. The arm of iron on the new Senate, already amply opposed in the speeches of authoritative colleagues and cut off by doctrinal contributions of illustrious constitutionalists like a next Senaticchio, a "after railway work" has all the air of diversion maneuver, of the mirror for the lark, wanting to divert the attention of the national community from the authentic priorities. This bill is full of contradictions and inconsistencies. The defense is entrusted to smoky theoretical principles when it does not come to invoke modernity that will never arrive in Italy if the reform of the Senate is not soon done. This bill overflows with leading signs of authoritarian turning. Too high is the threshold set at 800,000 signatures to request the popular referendum. "Sovereignty belongs to the people" - says Article 1 of our Constitution - and, therefore, I ask for a Senate of direct election. The mayors make mayors and regional councillors apply to the laws applicable to the Regions. Imagine the dysfunctions, the trouble and the embarrassment of regional and municipal assemblies because it is necessary to wait for the return from the Senaticchio of the counselors and the first citizens to celebrate the meetings? It is so strange, then, that the government asked us and told us the times for a constitutional reform that, at other times, would have made everyone shake his wrists: Government, majority and opposition. I hope you all feel this embarrassment, this maneuvering tension that must fight against time aware of the importance of the goods transported by the train. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us all ask ourselves, together, for an effort of parliamentary and political wisdom. A further period of reflection is needed. And those who have government responsibilities need an extra ambition: to reform well. The economy requires it, the Italians and Europe ask for it, democracy requires it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Liuzzi, I invite you to conclude, because you have run out of time at your disposal. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President, and I will be very brief. Democracy corrects - explained Alexis de Tocqueville - by adding democracy. It is not wrong to rely on these giants of Western thought from time to time. Then Telemaco will come, and he's in. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u44	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - in particular the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli - and the Government for their fruitful work. With intense activity they healed the initial vulnus constituted by the anomaly of a profound constitutional revision that started from an initiative of the Government. I think that the quality of civil coexistence at every level is better, if everyone adheres to Voltaire's modus operandi: I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend until death your right to say so. Always, but especially in cases like this, it is essential to have total interest and respect for the opinions and words that we do not share. Having said that, I would like to stress my concern at some of the statements made in this House. It has been said that we want to proceed too quickly. For decades we have been talking about the need to amend the second part of the Constitution. In April 2013, all the senators and deputies, with the exception of those of the 5 Star Movement, applauded with enthusiasm and conviction the calls to change President Napolitano, just re-elected. It has been almost a year and a half since then; we are at the first of four readings. I think it is difficult for those who follow Parliament's work to think that we are acting too quickly. Some colleagues argue that the proposal of the new Senate is not good as formulated, but that it would be good if it provided for the direct election of future senators. At the same time, he argues that the election by the citizens of the President of the Republic would mean even more questioning democracy in our country. I cannot understand the logic of such statements. I would like to focus on the fifth paragraph of Article 70, as mentioned in Article 10 of the draft law, which provides that the budget laws are examined by the new Senate and that the same, in fifteen days, by an absolute majority, can decide on modifications that the House will be able to reject only by an absolute majority. I am opposed to this rule for institutional and practical reasons. The philosophy of the measure we are examining is to make Parliament's work more streamlined and adapted to the times. For decades the main problem of our state is the size of the public debt. Politicians, jurists, economists, opinionists agree that the successive governments in Republican Italy, all based on varied coalitions, had to subjugate to the blackmails of the different lobby and so the spending laws and, in particular, the budget laws produced a debt out of control. Some will be able to say that since 2012 the Italian Constitution obliges us to balance the budget. I remember that, if the constitutional dictation had always been respected, which requires that every spending law should have full coverage, we had not accumulated the public debt we have today. In my opinion, the mechanism introduced by the fifth paragraph of the new article 70 already mentioned places the premises for the future Senate to agree with representatives of the Regions and Municipalities to ask the central State more and then to predict that, in order to reject these proposals, the House needs an absolute majority, it means giving back strength to the lobbies. The Italian system of double reading of budget laws is an anomaly. In fact, the economic situation in our country should suggest that we imitate the English model, the oldest democracy in the world, which provides that the budget law cannot be amended: it is approved as it is or rejected. The Government, before preparing it, listens to everyone, takes into account all opinions, especially those of the majority, then takes its responsibilities. Parliament approves or rejects. The fifth paragraph of the new Article 70 is also illogical in practical terms. The philosophy of the measure we are examining is to reduce the competences of the new Senate, to contain the number of senators, who will operate part-time, and to simplify all support structures. It makes no sense to require such a reduced body to be able to influence the budget law, which is the cornerstone of the state's activity, in a country where citizens are rightly dramatically concerned, because their accounts do not return and jobs are falling. For this reason, I have tabled only one amendment: the one that provides for the abolition of the fifth paragraph of Article 70 of the Constitution, as reported in Article 10. I hope that it will be taken into account. [[Applause from Senators Gasparri, Liuzzi and Zanettin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u46	. Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u47	Mr President, in recent months, since the new government was established, the relevant political mission, almost crossed to the limits of mystical orthodoxy, has seemed to be this desire to operate the radical reform of the essence and institutional function of the Senate. All the other problems that grip Italians - from the exorbitant fiscal pressure to galloping unemployment, from the inhumane problem of immigrants to the unchangeable justice denied - have all fallen into the deepest oblivion and deafening silence of the media and an increasingly dazzling public opinion by the advent of the Man of Providence. Italians don't count: they came out of the Commission's radar, forgotten in their miserable problems, after being seduced by the pre-election spot of 80 euros. We cannot understand why, at the moment when the country asked for a leap of pride from the political class, we pay it back with a reform that will not bring any benefit to it. Let's face it, let's face it, with great honesty and without infinity: this constitutional bill does not have the objective of improving the efficiency of the state machine, it will not advance the level of quality of our institutions, it will not make the legislative mechanisms faster, it will not restructure the hinges of Italian democracy for the better; in short, it will not do in any way a good service to the country. The only beacon that drives it and urges it is demagogy, the only ingredient that this Executive has been feeding on since the very first moment. In five months we have heard only promises, resolutions without any political support, questionable media marketing operations, missed deadlines and little more: not a response to Italians, not a concrete plan, aimed at resolving some structural inefficiency that determines the stagnation of civil and economic progress in Italy. Unfortunately, the prevailing idea is that this reform - limp or limp or inconceivable - has to be done, as Manzoni would say. The Senate, as we have known from the Constituent to today, must be sacrificed on the altar of demagogy. The topic is tough and certainly few are passionate about this connection between reforms so far from the daily life of the Italians. Moreover, we cannot forget that the real reforms that Europe is urging us to do, as other Members have already mentioned, do not concern the parliamentary mechanisms: they concern the terrain of the economy, the public debt, the labour market. The flexibility we are talking about these days is achieved only after we have done the reforms, but the economic ones. The sense of this self-referential and authoritarian drift is this: We want to change our Parliament, we are the new, we are the young, we are the good ones, we do not count how it is done; the quality, the opportunity and the goodness of what is done do not reveal. The reality that the country needs to know is another: the entire legislative system of the bill that is debated is centered precisely on what the Italians do not want and that disgusts them, that is, the sum of an indefinite set of double assignments and conflicts of interest. It is a legislative structure that does not stand up and that makes water on all sides: let us not make this resounding mistake, colleagues, we are still in time to save the face and our dignity, as well as the future of the Italians. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u48	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u51	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, in a city in deep mourning for the death of a 14-year-old son, who, while walking, was killed precisely by the neglect of that same city, which collapses to pieces, today there are 500 days from two events that we want to remember... (The senator is moved.) Excuse me, Mr. President. It is March 4, 2013, when two facts, a few kilometers away and a few hours away, shake Naples and its sleepy civil conscience. It is 10 a.m., when, due to the works of line 6 of the subway, during the excavations of the station Arco Mirelli, a whole wing of the Palazzo Guevara of Bovino collapses, on the Riviera of Chiaia, fortunately without causing victims. After a few hours, in the evening, a fire flares to the west, in Bagnoli, razing the City of Science to the ground. To date, 17 July 2014, 500 days have passed and there are still no answers: the judiciary is at work, but justice is proceeding too slowly. Only in these days has the CTU report of the Public Prosecutor been filed on line 6, but deafening is the silence of the institutions. The metro line 6 is a useless line, first of all, because there are already two (and there was also the tram). It should also be remembered that the work began in the absence of environmental assessment, based on a lack of study of the subsoil and hydrology, which was the cause of the devastation of a valuable territory, bound for its historical and landscape value. We have denounced, asked for information for citizens on security, reason for the river of money spent (1.6 billion euros of public funding and structural funds), and on the entrusting of the works in concession to direct negotiation (only works). There were two questions and one agenda on this, but no answers. The other tragedy of that March 4, 2013 was the burning of the City of Science: a great wound, from which could result more serious damage for the future. A program agreement, in fact, between the Municipality and the Region would like its reconstruction on the coast line, preventing its original redesign and the beach for Naples. A reconstruction on a sediment that is not known if it has ever been reclaimed. It would be a bolt to undo the glorious variant, the CAP and circumvent the constraints and rights. A bolt that would open the way for speculators to the detriment of the many and to the benefit of the few. We are also preparing a full-bodied question on this. 500 days have passed and we are still waiting for answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-282.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 3 p.m. on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.31 a.m.
