ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00223, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to article 156- bis of the Regulation, on the aggression suffered by the federal secretary of the North League, Matteo Salvini, in Bologna. I call Senator Centinario to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u4	Mr President, first of all we would like to point out that this request comes not only from the Group of the North Legacy but from a good number of senators from various political groups who, at the time when we proposed the presentation of this questioning, made themselves available and in a few minutes joined by asking a loud voice to be able to sign it. We've been wondering in these hours why they did it. Simply because, like us, they are concerned about the situation in our country at this moment. A situation that goes beyond the fact itself, the content of the questioning; an ugly situation that sees a small part, fortunately, of the citizens of our country who at the moment they must protest and express their opinions do so violently. The thing that arouses concern, but that also makes us smile a little, is the fact that these violent acts come from those who very often say they practice nonviolence: maybe they show up with the flag of peace and then destroy everything. Everyone, however, makes their political mission inconsistent. Let us briefly retrace what is happening right now. We have witnessed in recent months, by these characters, an assault of the headquarters of the Northern League of Parma. Then a similar situation occurred in Trento, and finally the fact that we are going to analyze. What happened? I don't have to be the one to explain what happened, because we've seen it and seen it, read it on the pages of the newspapers. A few days before the episode, a city councilwoman was slapped by the residents of the Roma camp in Bologna and the federal secretary of the Northern League, authorized by the municipality, decided to go see what happened and visit this camp. Before arriving at the camp, while the secretary of the League is talking to journalists, we witness the aggression broadcast on all the news and published in the newspapers in the following days. What is perplexed is the violence with which this aggression is perpetrated, during which the rear window of the car is split, the car is kicked, try to stop it and constitute human shields against a car that had the only defect of being there at that time. The event has left everyone very shaken, but not only the representatives of the League, also many citizens who immediately stormed our email boxes, newspaper e-mail boxes and social networks of expressions of outrage for what happened. It is unthinkable that the secretary of a political party will not be able to act in accordance with his mandate, trying to do political activity on the territory, and that he will be attacked in a barbaric way by four scalmanati. Among the various statements following the event we are puzzled by those of the city council member of Bologna Frascaroli, and other personalities that we do not list, who accused the federal secretary of the Northern League of having made a provocative choice, thus putting on the same level as aggressors and attacked, with a sadly known logic of legitimizing the use of violence in the political struggle. We cannot compare political statements, even if strong, important, made by the leader of a political party to the squeezes, to the buckle of a belt that splits the rear window of a car, or to an exaggerate of a social center that kicks a car. So, it leaves us worried and perplexed, but it leaves us even more perplexed that when one of the attackers was interviewed by a well-known television network - it also puzzles me that he was interviewed on the shoulders, with the hood raised, as one who attacked and carried out acts against the law, which in fact is - he said it was a completely normal fact, that they would do it again and that it was lucky that the Secretary-General of the League was escorted. This means that an Italian citizen cannot go to the national territory if he is not escorted. This also leaves us puzzled because, after a few days - after a few days, for the truth - the seat of the Democratic Party, the party belonging to some of those phenomena that in previous days had said that Salvini was a provocateur, is attacked in a barbaric way, always by representatives of the social centers, who decide to blow up a meeting in which people talked about housing. During the election campaign in Emilia-Romagna, again in Parma, the federal secretary of the Northern League, Matteo Salvini, went to Piazza Garibaldi for a rally and the lords of the social centers - those of nonviolence - decided to use violence against some militants of the League, including a gentleman of a certain age, who remained content with the clashes. Again, I wonder if this is nonviolence! Subsequently, a few days ago, there was the assault on a headquarters of the Lombardy residential building company (ALER): seen and considered that at this moment there is talk of occupation of popular houses and that the social centers have decided to take sides in a certain position, once again an ALER headquarters is stormed, therefore an institutional seat. Not to mention that a few days ago also the Forces of the Order suffered an act of violence, at the time when they were trying to clear a people's house occupied in an abusive manner. Again, we believe - and this is not said by Senator Centinario or the North League - that representatives of the social centres decided to launch fire extinguishers against the Forces of Order. We think that the launch of fire extinguishers is now a fashion when it comes to social centres: that must obviously be one of their weapons of battle. The representatives of the government know this well, better than I do: we do not count the damage that is caused every time these gentlemen go to the streets to peacefully manifest their initiatives. Such peaceful initiatives are always a ground of confrontation with the Forces of Order and do not count the damages caused by all that is done against multinational brands or banks. Again, we would like to know why these people are always unpunished: there is never anyone who is punished. Also in this case I am smiling that people are allowed to participate in political demonstrations with the face covered or maybe with the mask of Anonymous, without being done or told anything, when then at the demonstration of the North League, in Milan, on immigration, the protesters were made virtually X-rays to see if they were good or bad, violent or not violent. I am almost finishing, Mr President: we believe that the political opposition - we have seen it in this Parliament on more than one occasion too - is democracy and therefore we also believe that democracy should be protected. The right of criticism is democracy, because unfortunately only our President-in-Office does not accept criticism. Criticism is democracy and it is also democracy that a citizen, a politician, a trade union representative or anyone else can turn around on national territory and do their duty. It is not democracy when there is someone who violently does not allow someone else to do their duty. Consequently, if this Government - and unfortunately the previous ones - is unable to guarantee public order, even more so at this time of crisis, our proposal is to establish a DAMPO, i.e. a ban on access to political demonstrations. If it is not possible to protect and keep public order with good will, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that perhaps the state should show a little more muscle. If not, I don't mean civil war, but the law of the taglion is implemented: you do something to me, I will do the same to you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u5	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard from the interrogation on the agenda, Senator Centinario, together with other senators, drew attention to the attack on the National Secretary of the Northern League, Matteo Salvini, which took place on 8 November during a visit to the nomadic camp in Via Erbusa in Bologna. Senator Centinario therefore asked what measures the Government intends to take to guarantee all citizens the freedom of expression and expression of their ideas. It should be pointed out that Mr Salvini, as Secretary of the Northern League, has been the victim of a series of threats, for which he is currently receiving a fourth level protection measure, consisting of a protection service with two police officers from the Milan police station on board a non-specialized car. On 8 November, Mr Salvini went to Bologna with his private car, without communicating the time of departure from the house (as it would have been appropriate and as it was agreed to be done), thus not allowing the said protection service to be activated. The attempt to obtain information on Mr Salvini's movements, first of all from his escort, then also from the stock office in Bologna, was worthless. This has also frustrated the protection services for the visit to the nomadic camp, which had been arranged by the police with staff of the DIGOS and the mobile departments starting from the arrival at the motorway exit of Bologna. The police have managed to acquire the news of the presence in the city of the secretary of the League only when the same was already in a parking lot located little more than a kilometer from the access to the nomadic field. DIGOS personnel were sent to the site immediately to carry out the planned escort service. In the meantime, however, some members of the antagonistic collectives have tried to block the Honourable's car, repeatedly hitting it with blunt objects, kicks and punches and determining the dent of different parts of the bodywork and the rupture of the windscreen and rear window. DIGOS personnel have only made it in time to intercept and follow the damaged car and to direct other police officers to assist and protect the vehicle and especially the occupants. The investigations conducted by DIGOS itself allowed to identify in a very short time the authors of the attack, ten young activists of the university collective Hobo, who were all denounced to the prosecutor of the Republic for the crime of competition in aggravated private violence. Three of them have also been reported for offences of aggravated damage and port of objects liable to offend. On the same day, after the event, a journalist from the editorial staff of "Il Resto del Carlino" was attacked by a group of antagonists. For such aggression, three activists from the anarchist area have been denounced for private violence, insult and threats in competition. Further investigations are under way. This is the illustration of the facts, which I think should be noted. After considering the scope, I can only express my condemnation of the aggression suffered by Mr Salvini, all the more serious because it is aimed at limiting the exercise of the free expression of the thought of a democratically elected Member of Parliament, as well as the secretary of a political party. I also believe that the facts of Bologna must lead to serious reflection on the values of tolerance and the need for even wider diversity of opinions not to become a source of violent and superffactory opposition. In this respect, I assure you that the commitment of the police forces is constantly aimed at guaranteeing the exercise of the fundamental rights of citizens, such as those of peaceful assembly and freedom of thought, and at safeguarding - even through preventive measures - the conditions necessary for peaceful civil and political coexistence. Finally, I come to the request made by the honourable Members to know the regulatory measures that the Government intends to take to stem violent actions by antagonistic groups, with particular reference to the extension of the DASPO to political demonstrations. The latter theme, as you know, has been raised several times in this and other legislatures, last during the work of conversion of Decree-Law No 119 of 2014 in the matter of violence in sporting events. I would also like to point out that a number of Members of the Northern League have recently tabled a draft law on this matter. In this regard, I would like to point out that there are still serious problems with regard to the fact that the parameter of legitimacy of the DASPO, also in the light of the constitutional jurisprudence that has been formed in this area, is given by Article 16 of the Constitution, relating to freedom of movement, while a similar measure which can be adopted with regard to participants in forms of political demonstrations would be limited to the requirements contained in Article 17 on freedom of assembly. This does not prevent, however, from deepening the problem and from studying other possible interventions that increase the penalty treatment for those who, repeatedly, participate violently in public demonstrations. Nevertheless, there remains the seriousness and violence exercised in this situation, which calls on all of us to exercise a great responsibility to avoid building conditions of political and institutional confrontation that can promote the spread of the culture that takes on violence as an instrument of political confrontation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u9	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Vice Minister, if there is a responsible party in Italy, I think it could be the North League party: I have been a member of the North League since 1990 (my colleagues more or less since the same year), but I do not remember an act or a violent demonstration carried out by the League, not even in response to provocations from social centres or other such amenities. That day it is true that MEP Matteo Salvini did not inform DIGOS of his presence, so his position. However (without wanting to accuse anyone), if journalists knew where Salvini was, if the militants of the League knew, if the social centers knew, I wonder how DIGOS, which theoretically should have control over politics and territory, did not know where Mr Matteo Salvini was, and know it after too much, too long. What pains me to point out (in this regard I have also put a question to Minister Alfano) is that there is too much lightness (and that is the thing that honestly scares me) by the Forces of Order regarding the movements of a leader of a party, such as the North League. When Mr Salvini, on the occasion of the election campaign for the municipal elections in Pavia, arrived in a closed room and the Pavia police station and DIGOS authorized ten members of Forza Nuova to enter in order to aggressively and violently challenge Mr Matteo Salvini, I also expressed my opposition to the work of the Forces of Order. You can't think that things never happen. In a closed room, as in that case, with ten people and 200 militants of the League, if there had been a person out of his mind who responded to the provocations that meeting could have turned into a disaster and today we would not be here to talk about how quiet the League is. Articles in the newspapers would come out with titles like "fights between the right" or other ridiculous things. I have expressed this view on several occasions. You can't think that there are party leaders who go around the world with a stock of dozens of people and others who go around Italy abandoned to their own destiny, thinking that nothing happens anyway. This is, in my opinion, unacceptable. As I have already said, we act responsibly. We have always done so; we act and do not respond to provocations because we do not want to mix with certain people. We're not like certain people. We repudiate violence, therefore we do not respond and we will never respond to certain people, but we do not even want to be compared to those who use violence. We have always used politics, political debate. Not provocation, but political debate. We have always answered questions, we have always asked questions, we have always reasoned and tried to reason with the citizens. I am sorry that every time there is an initiative, a manifestation of the North League or Matteo Salvini, there are always the usual ten or fifteen scalmanati of the social centers that can say and do what they want. I believe that this is unacceptable. Then there is a whole series of situations and events that I have listed. Unfortunately, at this moment in the eye of the cyclone, it is no longer just the Northern League, but the entire political system. What happened to Salvini could happen to any other party leader who moves on national territory. I correct myself to any party leader who, unfortunately, does not have the same escort as our President-in-Office. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u10	Question 3-00823 follows on the new registration requirements imposed by the European rules on olive oil producers. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to what my fellow Members have said on a subject that is particularly close to our Ministry, I would like to point out that the Department of European and international policies and rural development of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, on 20 December 2013, with Circular No 7524, has explained how the European Union Regulation 299/2013 on the characteristics of olive oils and olive-pomace oils, and the methods relevant to them, is implemented in order to ensure the best effectiveness of controls and to reduce the risks of fraud to the consumer. In addition, the abovementioned Regulation referred to by the interrogators introduced the obligation to keep entry and exit records for each category of olive oil and pomace oil, for all persons and groups of natural or legal persons holding such products, for the purposes of their profession or for commercial purposes, from the extraction to the mill to the bottling included. This place, the Ministerial Decree 23 December 2013, published in the Official Journal of 8 February 2014, transposes the provisions of the aforementioned EU Regulation and reaffirms that the keeping of the registers is in telematic form within the national agricultural computer system (SIAN). In fact, the aforementioned ministerial decree extends the obligation to keep records also to traders of oil olives (understood as buyers and retailers of olives), in order to have the complete traceability of the olive oil chain. Therefore, olive growers are only required to activate the register in question if they are also covered by one of the abovementioned categories of operators. However, I would point out that the obligation to keep this register is not provided for operators who only hold: oils used as ingredients in food other than mixtures of oils covered by Article 6 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 29 of 2012 (i.e. mixtures of olive oils with vegetable oils); oils intended for non-food uses; oils intended for self-consumption; pre-packaged and labelled oils. I would also point out that with Article 5, paragraph 5, of the Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2013, a simplified way of keeping the register has been provided for olive growers who only hold and market oil obtained from olives from their own farm, being able to carry out within the 10th of each month the records of the operations of the previous month, provided that the oil obtained from the milling is not more than 500 kilograms per marketing year. However - and I would like to stress this - we are increasing this last quantity to 700 kilograms. In this regard, I stress the full willingness of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy to take further measures of deburocratization and simplification - as requested by the interrogators - towards small olive producers, whose role we know is essential in Italian agriculture and, in particular, in some territories of our country, while remaining - and we believe that we find in this also the consent of the interrogators - the need to guarantee the traceability and safety of a product, olive oil, which unfortunately in recent years has been subject to many serious food scams. Finally, in this regard, I would like to point out that this legislation and obligations are intended to protect the final consumer both at the level of specific properties of virgin or extra virgin olive oil and as regards its origin, in the interests of all olive producers, of course, starting from the smallest ones, which often show a very high quality level and are therefore interested in the fact that this is somehow made recognizable within the same market.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u14	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on two points. In the meantime, I am satisfied with the Government's response, because in it we can see the direction of the road, a direction that we want to see. It is true that those who produce 500 kilograms of oil today are not subject to this obligation, but we know that this is a very small quantity. The fact that we reach 700 kilograms is already a first step, but we can expand it. We can extend it not because we do not have the concern of traceability, anything else, but simply because the mills already have the obligation to record the quantities of olives loaded and unloaded, the quantity of olives processed and the oil produced. Olives and derived oil are defined by the fiscal code of natural or legal persons and by the fiscal, administrative and sanitary documentation of each individual supplier, in order to verify the traceability for commercial purposes. This result already exists through the mills. Such records made by the mills identify exactly and punctually who is the recipient of any quantity of oil, even in the case of farm mills that exclusively work the olives of their own production and therefore codified with their own tax code. Under the new rules, the obligation to keep the loading and unloading register has also been extended to olive growers who hold bulk oil for commercial purposes, even if it comes exclusively from their own plants. With a view to bureaucratic simplification, Mr Vice-Minister, especially in the agricultural field, it is necessary to make procedures and obligations for operators in the various sectors more streamlined in order to prevent too strict bureaucratic constraints leading to the abandonment of production and marketing of products. For us it would be advisable to leave - I say this on behalf of the PD Group - the registration at the SIAN portal directly to the individual mills for small olive producers, implementing different methods of recording, modulated according to the production capacity and safeguarding the traceability of the production. In conclusion, based on the observation made in this House by Deputy Minister Olivero, I think that is the direction, but we expect - and we will be careful - that in the short time the quantity will increase from 500 to 700 kilograms in order to avoid this unnecessary correspondence (let's call it that). In addition, we will ensure that we go in the direction so that if it is the mills that already guarantee this result the operation does not have to be repeated. It would be useful to others, and certainly not to olive growers. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u15	Question 3-01163 on the pollution of the Calabrian coasts due to sewage treatment plants follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Tyrrhenian coast of the province of Catanzaro comprises, from north to south, the municipalities of Nocera Terinese, Falerna, Gizzeria, Lamezia Terme and Curinga, for a total coastal extension of about 34 kilometres. On the alleged criticalities of some purification plants present in the province of Catanzaro, on the basis of the information received from the competent prefecture, is represented the following. In the area of the lametino flows the river Amato, which welcomes in its stream also the discharges of municipal purifiers and industrial settlements in the hinterland. In the course of the years, the command of the Harbour office of Vibo Valentia Marina has carried out with own staff numerous investigations finalized to the verification of the operation of the purification plants and the regularity of the authorizations to discharge and the disposal of the waste. The activity of environmental police called Marechiaro 4, ordered from the marine environmental department of the general command of the Corps of the captains of port, has seen to operate numerous controls from which have emerged various administrative violations as well as 30 news of crime, reported to the procures competent for territory (Lagonegro, Paola, Lamezia and Vibo Valentia). Among the checks carried out, were highlighted obvious criticalities of management of six purification plants, reported to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Lamezia Terme that issued as many emergency preventive seizure measures, carried out with delay of thirty days from 14 July last, in order to allow the authorities responsible to provide for the works of immediate urgency in order to remove the inconveniences detected by the judicial police. Specifically, the purification plants subject to the seizure measures are: the consortile purification plant located in Marina of the Municipality of Nocera Terinese; the purification plant located in Guarna of the Municipality of San Pietro a Maida; the four purification plants of the Municipality of Serrastretta, located in the localities Timpa Gate, Trempa Migliuso, Fossa d'Angoli and Costa Capopoli. Currently, the only municipal purification plant in San Pietro a Maida has been seized since the elimination of the identified criticalities has been established. It is also represented that, in the context of the summer Safe Sea operation, the Vibo Coast Guard has carried out daily controls on the Tyrrhenian coast without detecting any further abusive discharges of sewage or other polluting waste. The Regional Agency for the Protection of the Environment of Calabria, for its part, following the monthly sampling carried out, confirmed the non-balneability of the sun foci of the Amato and Savovato rivers, from which came the orders of prohibition of bathing issued respectively by the municipalities of Lamezia Terme and Nocera Terinese, whose waters were likely polluted for the release of urban waste water not subjected to appropriate purification and coming from the various municipalities of Lametino, as established in the survey activity. With regard to the specific question put by the questioner to the Minister for the Environment, in stating that the sector rules attribute to the territorially competent bodies (Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and ATO) the identification and implementation of the interventions considered necessary by the same to the resolution of the environmental problems, it is emphasized the great sensitivity revealed on the point by this Ministry, aware of the widespread situations of inadequacy and inefficiency of the sewage system still present in the country, in particular in the areas of the Mezzogiorno. In fact, since May 2006, the Ministry of the Environment has signed and signed the framework programme agreement "New integrated water cycle" with the Ministries of Economic Development and Infrastructure and with the Calabria Region, financing various interventions aimed at redevelopment of the areas in question. These interventions, among other things, allowed in 2013 the infringement procedure relating to Case C-565/10 for the agglomeration of Lamezia Terme to be exceeded. The interventions concerned, respectively, the coastal pollution of the Belmonte-Amantea-Nocera Terinese stretch, the optimization of the purification platform through the realization of a system of sewage collectors at the industrial consortium of Lamezia Terme, the collection towards the purifier of the industrial nucleus of Lamezia Terme. Further economic resources were also allocated by the CIPE Resolution No. 60 of 30 April 2012, after an investigation that the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Department for Development and Economic Cohesion, led in the first quarter of 2012 with the Regions of the Mezzogiorno. On the occasion the Calabria Region has signalled 18 interventions of strategic importance for the water sector, among which the intervention ID 33736 "Dispolazione coastale vibonese" that affects, although marginally, the area in question. The intervention is included in the reinforced framework programme agreement signed by the parties (Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economic Development, Calabria Region) on 5 March 2013. The total cost of the intervention is equal to 30 million euros and the relative invitation to tender is soon to be published. The Ministry of the Environment, in any case, will be able to continue its institutional activities of solicitation of the WEU and the other authorities responsible for the prevention controls.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u19	DI BIAGIO (PI). Dear Mrs Undersecretary, thank you for your timely reply to my question and for the commitment that your Ministry is putting in place to resolve a problem which, as you yourself have rightly pointed out, affects not only the coasts of the Calabrian coast but also other coastal realities of our peninsula. Unfortunately, in the past, it was considered to address this problem without understanding its actual relevance, leaving room for clientele logic and purely localistic interests. In Calabria there are about 700 purifiers (between large, medium and small), many of which work poorly or even do not work at all, producing substantial damage to the river and marine ecosystem. Large resources have been wasted unnecessarily and the beautiful sea of Calabria has suffered, with the consequent penalization of the undisputed tourist vocation of that Region; a topic on which many local representatives have been fighting for a long time, among all the Faithful workers with its President Pino Giordano. In fact, I want to highlight that in Calabria there are 800 kilometers of coasts that can and must represent a wealth and a resource for the development of the Region and therefore of the entire Country. For this reason, it is essential to intervene concretely with a serious plan of redevelopment of the territory and the water system, which is managed by competent technicians and wise administrators. It is in the eyes of all that in our country there are many situations of inadequacy and inefficiency of the sewage system and sewage treatment. A problem that represents only a chapter of a more general problem that I would define as irresponsible carelessness and superficiality towards the territory, which unfortunately dramatically conditions our country and from which it is indispensable that we distance ourselves, strengthening all the instruments of prevention and protection of the territory, but also actively and forcefully contrasting that culture of the superficial and the derogation with which it is assumed to be able to operate in an undisturbed and irresponsible way to the sides of legality. In the light of these considerations, I believe it is absolutely important that the Ministry of the Environment, as it has already done with the framework programme agreement of 2006 and 2013, should continue to work (I say this very firmly), even beyond its specific competences, in support of local institutions, through the coordination of local authorities and a work of information to ensure the sharing of objectives, the flow of financial resources of competence and the effective use of them effectively. Initiatives that, among other things, put our country in a position to be in line with European requirements and to overcome, as highlighted, any disputes that may be opened in Europe towards Italy. With particular reference to my question, I would therefore like to express my full satisfaction with what you, Madam Undersecretary, have told us today, both for the framework agreement of March 2013 that will allow, thanks to the allocation provided by CIPE, important interventions of strategic importance for the water sector in the Calabria Region, and for the confirmation of a continuous commitment of your Dicastery in the institutional work of control and stimulus to the authorities responsible for the prevention controls. At this moment, the particular vulnerability of our territory is emerging in all its dramatic disruption, with devastating consequences and the road that the Ministry is undertaking, through the strengthening of the principle of legality, represents a fundamental step. I therefore renew my satisfaction and my support to Minister Galletti - and to you, Undersecretary Degani - for the work undertaken, which stands in the correct direction for responsible and effective protection of our precious territory and to restore dignity and beauty to the Calabria Region.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u20	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u21	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-357.ana.u22	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 25 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
