ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure on energy policy initiatives and industrial policies and trade regulation, to which the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on energy policy initiatives. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u6	MUCCHETTI (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, the Government has reiterated the commitment of Italy and ENI to South Stream to diversify the supply of energy sources from the eastern front. I would like to understand more, and that is why I am going to ask eight questions, plus one, without adding considerations of merit. The first: can the gas coming to Europe via South Stream compensate for what is coming from Ukraine today via Baumgarten? The second: considering that the South Stream should be ready in 2019: does the Government believe that by then the Ukrainian Russian conflict will still be open? The third: once the Russian-Ukrainian conflict has been resolved, will the South Stream gas replace what comes from us via TAG (Trans Austria Gas), or will it be added? Fourth question: if this gas is substituted, what effect will it have on the value of the TAG just bought by the Deposit and Loan Fund? Fifth: do you find that ENI has already made commitments to withdraw more gas via South Stream, in addition to what it already withdraws via TAG, and if yes, will it still be through take or pay contracts? Sixth: Will the shareholder Government authorize the ENI to subscribe to the capital increases of the South Stream building company to maintain the current participation of 20%? Seventh: in 2009 the cost of South Stream was estimated at 36 billion euros in ENI. Do you confirm that estimate, or do you have a more up-to-date estimate? Eighth question: Do you think that an IRR (internal rate of return) of 10 percent, after taxes for the manufacturer, cannot be negatively reflected on the final cost of gas via South Stream? The last issue concerns domestic infrastructure. A central role can be played by storage. The Ital Gas Storage project for Cornegliano, in the Lodi area, is ready. This is an investment of one billion financed from abroad: only the signature of the MISE is missing. Are you gonna put it before the permits expire at the end of the month?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u9	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Mr Cucchetti, as always, has covered all the possible questions that could have been asked. I will try to eliminate what has already been said by those who have spoken before me, remembering only that natural gas is certainly the most important component of the national energy mix and represents about 40% of electricity production. Russia remains the largest gas supplier to Italy, providing 43% of total demand. We then have ENI and SAIPEM, where the first is a 25 percent strategic partner of the South Stream pipeline while Saipem concluded a contract a few years ago of about 2 billion for the laying of pipeline pipes in the Black Sea. So, two very important Italian companies participating in this adventure. The South Stream, Minister, should cover 63 billion cubic metres, against an Italian requirement of about 75-80 billion a year, so a good part. It could possibly be substitute as a route to today's one that passes with pipes in Ukraine. What worries us, Minister, is that, having met Commissioner Oettinger more than once, who has always performed in enterprising participations in favour of Nabucco, who we know can have access to Shah Deniz deposits in Azerbaijan, but who are already covered today by the TAP for about 8 billion cubic meters, instead it has always been fundamentally contrary to South Stream. Unfortunately, this has recently led to an infringement procedure against Bulgaria, which has interrupted the work of the pipeline which should start from the Black Sea and - then - to send gas to Western Europe, with very serious words, which I quote, of President Barroso, who said: The Commission ensures that all energy infrastructure and related EU projects, such as South Stream, comply 100% with the European rules on public procurement in the field of energy. We have just started an infringement procedure against Bulgaria, and that shows that we are serious, which means that there is a very harsh, rigid, peremptory and evil opinion about Bulgaria by the European Union, probably participated by that gentleman, whom I mentioned earlier, who is called Oettinger and who has probably determined this position absolutely unacceptable, as far as we are concerned, with respect to the strategic interests of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u12	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam Minister, you have stated that you are in favour of increasing the current oil extractions at sea and on land. Foreshadowed the opposition, not only to a possible increase, but also to the current extractions at sea and on land (as the Mediterranean is a closed sea, full of unique biodiversity, put at risk by offshore research and perforations, and because Italy is a seismogenetically very active land), my question is to know if you, Madam Minister, has redone the accounts in the matter of financial revenues coming from the taxation of new quantities of hydrocarbons that, indeed, would be favorable to extract. Just by doubling the extraction on land, you said you could make about EUR 30 billion in 20 years. I do not contest the extent of the tax calculated (even if I have an idea, listening to it, that it is a little random), but I do context the 20 years of mining activity. This is because both the Independent Association ASPO and Nomisma energy clearly write - instead - of a maximum of ten years of mineral reserves in Italy. At the current rate of drilling, if you allow the doubling of the barrels extracted, I believe that, mathematically, you reduce the years of energy reserve, and also, therefore, any hope of new tax revenues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u15	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, Minister, the MISE is the reference entity for the International energy agency for the collection of data and information aimed at drawing up the report on the state of the electricity markets. In these days it is hosting the auditions of the Agency towards various Italian representatives of the energy supply chain. Consumers, in particular Luigi Gabriel, representing the National Consumer and User Council, were also heard. Based on the experience of the consumer association, three main anomalies and criticalities of the Italian energy system have emerged. Firstly, the concentration of power, especially in the management of data of network management measures by energy and gas distributors, with the lack of real separation between sellers and energy distributors, which has generated a strong market concentration at national level of incumbents, dominant agents, and at territorial level of former municipalities. Secondly, the excess of improper charges and cross-subsidies in Italian bills, which end up weighing 50% on the final cost of energy and gas. Thirdly, the lack of seriousness of many free market players, who in recent years have confused, intimidated and deceived consumers with often illegal and inappropriate methods. These are the main reasons for the static nature of consumers and their backwardness in moving from one operator to another, from one market to another. I would therefore ask you, Madam Minister, whether you intend to take concrete steps to ensure the freedom of choice of the consumer by protecting him from fraud and thereby freeing the country from market monopolies disguised too often by de facto monopolies on distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u18	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam Minister, there is an increase in oil extraction activities in our country, both on land and at sea. In view of this, we believe that there has been a justified alarm on the part of the regions and local authorities concerned in particular, also because research and extraction could have a particularly negative impact on agricultural activity, fisheries and tourism. In addition, the Mediterranean Sea is a closed basin, affected by 25% of world oil traffic in the presence of an already very high density of pelagic tar, where a major accident could have devastating effects on the quality of life of the populations located. We therefore ask you whether you do not consider it necessary and urgent to adapt the national rules on this matter, making the prohibition of granting to all types of areas for research and extraction within 12 miles of the coast, and to remove any derogation from the obligation to submit the granting procedures for exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons at sea to the EIA, respecting the orientation of the regions and local authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u21	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, the question I ask you is about the facts that we read every day about the press. The government has repeatedly said that it wants to reduce the cost of the energy bill of our companies, but we still have many doubts about the ability to find the resources to be able to finance these incentives. Then there are further statements from the government that do not leave us at all quiet. I am thinking of the cost of motor vehicles or agricultural activities, activities which have always needed facilities relating to important fuels for the reduction of production costs, or, of course, for road haulage. Let us remember that everything about fuel and its cost then affects the final consumer, because it weighs on the cost of goods. On these initiatives, the Government has never clarified what resources it will draw from in order to reduce costs, avoiding speculative bubbles in this case. Above all, we ask the Government to know what levels of seriousness the declaration has of wanting to reduce the cost of energy for companies. It is not only a question of the supply of methane gas rather than the main hydrocarbons, but also of telling companies that over the years they have been encouraged to invest in renewable energies, whether they will still be able to enjoy incentives from the State or they will have to give it up, even being exposed with investments made that they will not be able to recover. In this regard, we want to understand from the Government what the resources will be and where it will draw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u24	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Madam Minister, the objectives of the 20-20-20 package are crucial to energy efficiency. In this context, various initiatives have been promoted to promote technologies from renewable energy sources and from high-efficiency cogeneration. However, the necessary synergy between investments, technology and market logic is still difficult to establish today, also due to legislation that is often unable to transpose and articulate the potential of this instrument. One example of this is the divergence between Community energy efficiency legislation and national legislation on the reform of buildings. On the one hand, in fact, it is expected the possibility to install plants in the condominiums, on the other it is limited the use of the electricity produced only to the common parts. It's a little weird! I therefore ask you, Minister: what initiatives are being taken to imprint Italian legislation on an effective and reasoned promotion of energy efficiency from renewable energy sources (ERF) and high-efficiency cogeneration (CAR), in the various situations affecting its implementation, in civil and services, allowing the energy generated can be used by individual end-users?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u25	I call the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi. Since it has ten minutes, I do not think it will be an easy task.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my first experience, you will have some patience if I am not good at trying to answer everyone. However, I will try to deal with the individual points as much as possible. The premise is that I will try to answer today and possibly supplement it by answering in writing in more detail as soon as I have the shorthand report if - as I believe - I have forgotten something and I will not have been able to respond on time. As far as energy policies are concerned, and therefore the subject of the South Stream pipeline, which seems to me to have been put in a clear way, the background data say that we depend from abroad on about 80%, as far as energy policies are concerned. Of course, the degree of security of our supplies must also be assessed in the light of the instability of many of the areas of origin and the crossing of energy flows. It also appears that our companies pay on average 30% more electricity than their competitors in other Member States. So, as we did at the G7 with the Rome initiative, we will have to focus on policies that give priority first of all to energy security, diversification of sources and price control, as well as environmental objectives, which are fundamental to some of us. Therefore, our strategy focuses on four main objectives: reducing the cost gap; achieving the (even if very ambitious, as we all know) targets for renewable energy production and energy efficiency defined in the 2020 Energy Climate Package; continuing to improve our security and independence of supply; fostering sustainable economic growth. On this (I make a small reflection) will also affect the theme of the relationship State-Regions. Priority should therefore be given to amending Title V of Part II of the Constitution in order to bring certain strategic energy competences to the State, as this is a matter of national interest. Of course, on the European front, the beginning of the Italian Presidency will be a useful time to make energy, security policies and energy diversification one of the points at the heart of the Italian Semester agenda. I now try to respond specifically to Senator Mucchetti and Senator Romani for the South Stream pipeline part. I have reiterated on several occasions that South Stream remains a priority and strategic work at the Italian level. Today, we are not directly concerned with management, but it is part of a European debate. I remember, and I hope to answer a first question from Senator Mucchetti, that the South Stream, however, is not a project that will bring additional gas to Italy, but a supply on a different route with the same volumes today. Today there are some critical issues (remembered also by Senator Romani) for the fact that the operation was expected, in a first phase, already for 2016, while now the project, for the offshore part, has been suspended by the Bulgarian Government following a report from the European Commission. I believe that this remains a work of national strategic interest. I think it is right that Italy should continue to push for this project to be pursued in the context of European Community rules. I'm now trying to answer some of Senator Cucchetti's specific questions. As mentioned above, there is no provision for additional gas supply. It is a different supply that allows to eliminate the problem relating to transit in Ukraine. It has been asked, in case it is replaced, what effects it will have on the value of the TAG. The problem is whether the point of arrival of the South Stream pipeline will be Baumgarten. If so, the TAG will have no damage. If instead the point of arrival was Tarvisio, the TAG could be recovered and used, even if on different volumes, with a reverse low system. As far as ENI's questions are concerned, I think I have already answered when I said that the same volumes of gas will pass from there (the contract, therefore, would be the same). With regard to the assessment of the 36 billion, I would like to point out that this is honestly the last estimate we have, but these estimates do not only concern our share, but they are in the hands of the part of the manufacturer, and therefore they are difficult to assess on our part. Even with respect to the evaluation made by Senator Cucchetti in relation to the IRR of 10%, I think it is difficult to answer today, because it is not yet possible to define whether this gas, or however this supply, will be subject to regulation. Without prejudice to the fact that ENI is a company that operates independently and on which we obviously have no power of intervention, I believe that, from an economic point of view, it can be reiterated that even the supply of the same volume of gas for an alternative route, as far as we are concerned, continues to confirm the strategicity of the work. As regards the Italgas Storage project, I recall that it was approved by a ministerial decree on 15 March 2011 and the start of the project was postponed in this case for financial issues related to the system of remuneration of the investment. Therefore, in this period, joint meetings and evaluations are under way by the Ministry of Economic Development and the Authority for Electricity and Gas, in order to allow Italgas Storage and other operators under such conditions to resolve the problem shortly. As regards the Commission's position on the project, I repeat that Italy has always supported South Stream, also indicating to the Russian side the opportunity to achieve its compatibility, for the land stretch that begins in Bulgaria, with the European rules on transport pipelines. The so-called third package of directives on the internal market in natural gas allows, in fact, to grant derogations from the European rules of ownership separation of networks and third party access to transport capacity, as done by Italy in the case of the TAP project. As regards the possible opening of an infringement procedure, it should be noted that Italy continues, together with other Member States concerned, to support the project, subject to compliance with the relevant European rules (as I have already pointed out). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Madam Minister, since you only have two minutes left, I would ask you to take into account the questions put by the other senators. Mr GUIDI, Minister for Economic Development. Sorry, I was out of time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not yet, but unfortunately the clock is ticking. Mr GUIDI, Minister for Economic Development. I hope I've answered the South Stream part, albeit slightly. As far as mining extraction is concerned, I have indeed said that I am in favour of the exploitation of indigenous resources. We think that a stimulus to national production of hydrocarbons, in addition to reducing the energy bill by EUR 5 billion, would have positive effects for the state through tax revenues and revenue from royalties and royalties. By relying solely on projects for the development of existing fields and resources already established in 2050, total private investment of 19 billion can be mobilised, capable of producing - in our estimates - 42 billion more revenue and in addition, according to Law No 239 of 2004, the territories can conclude with the concessional companies special compensation agreements and environmental rebalancing. Therefore, while remaining the prerequisite of respect for the environment and the protection of the communities, we recently reopened an institutional table (for example, between the State and the Basilicata Region) to address this issue, considering in some way possible the objective of converting these investments and these resources into factors of development from the occupational and infrastructural point of view, with a positive impact on the territories. This concerns both the on-shore and the offshore parts. As far as the latter is concerned, we are in the process of transposing a European directive (in order to transpose it, which we are working with the Ministry of the Environment). In general, I believe that, of course, in the first place respect for the protection of the environment and then the populations involved, we can try to improve the capacity to use the resources we have on the territory. On the other hand, with regard to Senator Mancuso's questions on the energy sector and prices on the market, we believe that it is possible to cut the cost of the energy bill by 10%, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which today are the ones that have paid substantially from 30% to 50% more energy costs than their European competitors. We believe that it is possible to do so through a system of fair redistribution of some inequalities that were present in our system. We will of course ask for a small sacrifice from certain categories which, in our opinion, have perceived a little more than we can afford today. Of course, far from us being opposed to renewable sources, which indeed in the decree we have encouraged, giving a strong boost to administrative and bureaucratic practices, essentially liberalising the use of photovoltaic and geothermal systems on all unbound buildings. At the same time, however, we think that rationalization and an attempt to achieve a grid parity also in the field of renewable sources are right. On the one hand, we believe that this supports the green economy; on the other hand, we believe that this will reduce the parafiscal burden, which today has essentially meant that our energy bill has been heavily burdened, especially on a certain group of small and medium-sized enterprises. Free market prices, as I said before, certainly incorporate a significant administrative component, and ensure that this burden of system charges also helps to curb the dynamism of customers on the market. On the part of the Government, with the legislative decree transposing the energy efficiency directive, we have intervened on some essential issues to make the market evolve and protect citizens of course, in such a way that even the timely billing of consumption and the best correspondence between turnover consumption and consumption actually found put the consumer at the center of the reform, in condition to choose according to correct signals of price and quantity. As we also heard this morning in the report by the President of the Authority, I believe that better readability and transparency of the bill will also facilitate this type of operation, so that the consumer has a clearer and more transparent view of what he is consuming. Forgive me for perhaps being too quick in some parts and getting longer on others, at this point, Madam President, I will stop here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u27	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u30	MUCCHETTI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking the Minister for the answers she gave, I hope to receive a written text with the precise answers to the individual questions that had a bit of the trait of what is used on a board of directors. As we face an investment that for ENI will be 20% out of 36 billion (according to the 2009 estimate: today I would say that if we talk about 50 billion we are not going very far from the truth), I think we need to be very punctual about the expected returns and the effects that such an investment will have on the price of gas that will come via South Stream compared to what comes today via TAG, which is a gas pipeline entirely cushioned, because mathematics is not an opinion. As for the role of the Government, I believe it is central, as it holds 30% of the ENI, it appoints its board of directors in its great majority and assigns to the council the mission on the main things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u33	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, I realize that ten minutes are very few to answer all the questions. I'm just gonna give you a little recommendation. I know that next week you have a mission to Germany, which is the seat, as you know, where the most important things in the European Union are decided. We had often dealt with the subject with the German Government, which was very deaf to this issue, since the Energy Commissioner is also German. I think that this is the right place to prevent the Germans, once again, from making their interests prevail. Our interests in this field are very different from theirs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u36	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am pleased that the Minister has been able to confirm on television that she is in favour of increasing on-shore and offshore oil extractions. I will be pleased with the answers that the Minister gave me when I actually see EUR 5 billion in reducing citizens' bills and EUR 42 billion in higher revenue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u39	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your commitment, your response and also for the feeling that you are very keen to understand the content of the matter that I have raised. The free market must ensure the participation of companies that must be strongly characterized by compliance with the rules of engagement. They must feel the breath on the neck of government control instruments, in order to avoid the creation of de facto monopolies that produce more revenues for businesses to the detriment of consumers citizens, forced to pay an additional share of charges which, at this very moment when they are burdened by taxes and taxes, becomes unbearable. So we have a duty to avoid this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u42	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam Minister, we are not very much in favour of the increase in oil extractions, and above all we are not in favour of this increase affecting the Region of Sardinia. We think, in fact, because of an experience gained over the decades, that such extractions and other types of extraction to that Region have left only rubble, problems of serious pollution, a particular aggressiveness to the perspectives of development of sectors such as tourism, besides having determined a condition of economic colonialism that has impoverished, and not enriched, our Region. This is the reason for the protest of the populations and communities in Oristano, particularly in the Arborea area, and the motivation for which there is generally a negative assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u45	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, unfortunately, your answer does not satisfy us because it has not been there. We would have liked her to have lost her doubts about the increase in fuel costs and excise duties, both for motor vehicles and for agriculture. This, knowing well that, in the end, this is a matter of giving certainties to those who do business. We have become accustomed to hearing great slogans from the government, without seeing coherent answers. A year ago his predecessor ensured that the IMU would be removed on productive property, but the companies still wait. If there is to be an increase in diesel for motor vehicles and there will be no reductions for diesel used in production activities (in particular agriculture), our companies will suffer a further loss of competitiveness. On this we need to have certainties. You can't just give slogans: people need to be sure, otherwise businesses close.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u48	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you in any case for the answers you have not received, and I hope for a long time, so I hope that you will give them to me later. I want to reiterate here that promoting energy efficiency means reflecting vision, leaving the logic of consumption to fully enter the logic of self-production. A vision that has a key point in the concept of self-producer, that must be remodulated to include the aggregations of utilities that characterize the residential, tertiary and industrial sites. As I reiterate my hope that these additional aspects will find a proper place in the legislation, the path goes ahead, the road is right, but we can and must do more.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u49	Let us now turn to questions on industrial policies and trade regulation, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u52	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, I am sure you will agree that a modern industrial policy in our country cannot fail to foresee a strong and solid presence of the national steel industry, which in Italy means first of all Ilva and the future of the largest steel site in Europe, that of Taranto. Having said that, I'm going to ask a few quick questions. In the light of the numerous positions opposed to the management of Ilva by Commissioner Bondi, which have repeatedly come in recent months, among others, from some of the owners, the Riva family (which has publicly subordinated its adherence to the capital increase provided by the last decree-law at the end of the commissioning or the change of leadership of Ilva), and by some associations like Federacciai, who strongly contested the environmental investments elaborated and included in the environmental plan approved by the Government, I ask you what is the mandate to which the appointment of the new commissioner, Dr. Gnudi responds. I now come to the second question. In this exchange, is there not, in your opinion, a substantial rejection of both the contents of the environmental plan drawn up in recent months by the Commissioner and the sub-commissary Ronchi, which provided for investments of about EUR 4 billion and of a hypothesis, never become official, of an industrial plan based on productions more compatible with the environment, such as the so-called "predotto"? As a result of all this, can we not imagine - I hope not - how realistic, in the face of likely lower environmental investments, a premise to a progressive decrease in production capacity and, consequently, of the same employment on the site of Taranto? Finally, I would like to ask whether there is, if it has been officialized and what industrial programmes the new rope has, which has often been mentioned in recent weeks, that it would intervene to rescue the Ilva steel site in Taranto.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u55	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Madam Minister, the Ilva Decree aims to restore the Taranto steel works from an environmental point of view with the resources generated by the management of the company without interruption. In this way we achieve the dual objective of protecting the health of the workers of Ilva and the citizens of Taranto and of safeguarding one of the few major Italian industrial groups. The recovery is achieved by implementing the environmental plan built on the basis of the AIA requirements and approved by the Ministry of the Environment only in early May. Can this plan, which involves investments of some 1.8 billion, still be considered valid? Even more, this decree provides that the Commissioner shall draw up the industrial plan within 30 days of the approval of the integral plan which forms an integral part of it. The five-year plan, drawn up by then Commissioner Bondi, provides for investments of 635 million to improve safety at work and technical investments of 1.6 billion. Madam Minister, do you think this investment is adequate, insufficient or excessive? Do you consider the Bondi plan valid, or do you need changes? In what time will the new Commissioner Gnudi have to draw up a new plan? Unfortunately, Ilva is risking financial asphyxiation. The banks call for an increase in capital to grant in turn the loans necessary to complete the financial resources needed and the companies currently providing goods and services for ILVA are in serious economic difficulties, sometimes risking bankruptcy, due to payments made with enormous delays. If there are insurmountable difficulties, can the Government envisage a bridge loan from the Bank deposits and loans? There was also talk of interest in the acquisition of the company by Italian steel companies, such as Arvedi and Marcegaglia, and international steel companies such as ArcelorMittal. Has the Government checked whether there are economic and financial capacities of these acquiring entities? Have you also noted the position of the Riva family and whether there is an intention to return the group to the Riva family before environmental restoration has taken place?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u58	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam Minister, let's talk about TTIP (Transatlantic trade and investment partnership). Last month there was the fifth meeting. The scope of the European negotiating mandate and the expectations expressed by the US side indicate that TTIP goes far beyond the framework of the simple free trade agreements. To date, three are the most complicated issues in the negotiations: the investment protection clause, the protection of personal data of all European citizens, the marketing of agricultural products and their food safety standards. It is precisely the investment protection clause that will allow private investors to sue national governments in an arbitration court. At political level, the biggest opposition to this is the German Government, which seems to lose its sovereignty. I would like to ask you what the Italian Government's position is on this matter. The second question I would like to ask you relates to the lightening of technical standards and standards, and in this area the European regulatory approach differs widely from that of the United States: the precautionary principle applies in Europe (the placing on the market of a product takes place after the risk assessment it presents); in the United States the opposite is true (therefore there is class action, monetary direction and so on). There is another difference: taking responsibility for the risks includes, in addition to those of consumers, those related to working conditions, health and safety at work. In the United States all this is beautifully ignored. I ask you, therefore, what your position is and therefore the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u61	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, Minister, it is news of the past few days that Italy has slipped to the last place in the G8 among the manufacturing countries, surpassed by Brazil, thus risking to get out of this body. The alarm comes from Confindustria who has developed, through its study center, the ranking of the producing countries. In six years Italy has gone from fifth to eighth place, and this is really very worrying. The Italian manufacturing industry suffers in relation to factors that intertwine and overlap, such as the decline in domestic demand, the asphyxiation of credit, the increase in labour costs untied by productivity and the profitability that has reached new minimum levels; but above all, in Italy industrial policy is still almost absent. It warns Confindustria that, in order to keep up with others, the country must identify the ideas of change in the needs of society and technologies and build around them a strategy of intervention that, with a system approach, maximizes the potential of our production system. I would ask you, Minister, what actions the MISE intends to take to reactivate the Italian production engine and, above all, to launch medium to long-term strategic plans for the national industry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u64	GAMBARO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, Minister, the news of the presentation, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, of the package of measures for growth is recent. Among these measures there are some concerning the issue of energy, with which - it has been said - it was intended to affirm the philosophy of taking away from those who had too much to give back to those who paid more. Of course, this seems to be acceptable, especially with a view to rebalancing the incentive system, but, overall, the rules touch on some critical points for the manufacturing system, typically with high energy use. We intend to refer to that energy which has represented for years an important gap in competitiveness and that our manufacturing companies, medium and large, even more than small ones, pay at prices much higher than those that pay the same German and French competing companies. We refer, in particular, to the payment of the system charges for those who do not benefit from the network, such as the companies that have invested for years to produce and self-consumption energy with high efficiency cogeneration plants and with low environmental impact. In addition to this, there is also a clause providing for the raising of the rate to lower revenue, as if to want to sink the companies that survive. Having said that, I would ask the Minister whether it is not appropriate to provide for the appropriate corrective measures to be taken so as to prevent a measure, even though it was born with the best intentions, from damaging other key sectors of our industrial system, or even from leading to other serious industrial crises, which would lead to job and GDP losses, as well as to the loss of the business world's hope in relation to the possibility that the Government will work in harmony with the real world of those who do business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u67	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to put a very simple question to you. Several times we have heard the President of the Council of Ministers encourage the arrival of foreign capital in our country, and this may seem, at first sight, something absolutely appropriate. Behind this, however, there is a grave concern for us: that these foreign capitals are not managed by the economy but by finance, which is the furthest away from job creation and from making our industry better, which is the small one, strong. The small and medium-sized industry, in fact, is the one on which the entire country stands. We have had striking examples in recent years of Made in Italy brands that keep only the name of made in Italy, but that in the property have now passed into foreign hands. We have an example in fashion brands such as Acqua di Parma, Fendi, Gucci, Pomellato, Bottega Veneta, Brijuni, and I could continue the list. But this, of course, also concerns important and strategic sectors, such as agriculture. I am thinking here of the olive oil chain (Carapelli, Sasso, Bertolli) or, again, other fields (Santa Rosa and others). What is happening, Minister, is a disbandment by large foreign financial groups of our productive capacities. We also had an example in the province of Varese, from which I come, with Husqvarna, and in the province of Cremona with Danone. All this must be stopped, and we want to understand from the government what actions and policies it intends to put in place. Let me give you the example that his predecessor had followed, that of Husqvarna, a company purchased by the German KTM, emptied in all its productive capacities and transferred to Austria, leaving in Italy only the families without work and the social cost of the unemployed to pay. This cannot be a European system that protects our best businesses, and it cannot be the policy of a government that wants to defend the Italian economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u70	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Madam Minister, following the entry into force of Ministerial Decree No 38 of 21 February 2013 on the rules governing the distribution and sale of smoking products, serious problems have arisen regarding the renewal of licences for traders with a reduced turnover. Paragraph 3 of Article 9 of the aforementioned decree lays down the criteria for the renewal of licences. Paragraph (a) of that paragraph provides - no one knows why - that the holder of the licence must have made a withdrawal of kinds of monopoly for an average annual value equal to or greater than 24,000 euros for the municipalities with population up to 10,000 inhabitants. For medium-large municipalities the threshold is even higher. However, just in areas with low population density and in mountain areas, as in the Province of Bolzano and Trento, there are numerous small municipalities and peripheral hamlets, with a few hundred inhabitants, with public establishments that do not reach such amounts and are now receiving denials of renewal of licences and, in the meantime, also withdrawals. The peculiarity of these exercises is that they are retailers who work in the tourist field and want to offer the best possible service to citizens. Madam Minister, I ask you a single question: do you not consider it appropriate and necessary to provide for an exemption from the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 9 of Ministerial Decree No 38 of 2013 for holders of the licence whose exercises are located in municipalities classified mountain and municipalities having legal seat in the smaller islands?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u73	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Madam Minister, in Italy and Europe we have a problem of growth, in order to tackle which we must firmly aim for reindustrialisation. Europe has understood this well, and in this context it has included the industrial compact, the strategy for relaunching European industry, providing EUR 150 billion of EU funds for innovation and competitiveness, also looking at supply policies, that is to say, all those policies that can simplify the lives of businesses in order to make them competitive and able to survive competition: they are policies for innovation and competitiveness. On the national side, on the other hand, if we look at the current reform plan, unfortunately there is still an explicit agenda, with a relative deadline, dedicated to industrial policy and to the effective and lasting relaunch of the Italian productive fabric. I therefore ask you what is the Italian agenda (the Italian industrial compact) that will enable us to achieve the objectives set out in the European Agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u74	I call the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u75	Madam President, there are a lot of questions, so I apologize if I lose a few pieces. As far as Ilva is concerned, the Government has commissioned Commissioner Gnudi to do something simple, but of course complex: to seek first of all an industrial revival of this great Italian society. This, because we need, as I heard from the two interrogating senators, a basic industry, because the steel industry in Italy is a condition for having other related sectors, such as automotive or domestic appliances, that need to have steel industries that produce in our country. This is therefore the main purpose. It is not to hide the fact that the financial situation of society is objectively difficult; the environmental plan is a necessity, and therefore no one thinks of questioning its implementation, also because it has been valued, there are investments that have been valued within it, and on that part none of us has doubts, neither in the timing nor in the values. As has rightly been mentioned, the industrial plan has been drawn up by the previous Commissioner; I believe that it has, like all industrial plans, margins of randomness (by definition all have). I think it has been done, of course, to the best of the competences that could be used; moreover, this plan has not yet been formally communicated to the Ministry of Economic Development, because it is still waiting for the technical time that shareholders have available to make any comments. In any case, the industrial plan is, of course, an industrial plan, of which it will of course be considered, and from my point of view I cannot rule out that an industrial relaunch of that company can also go through a revision of that industrial plan. However, the aim is to give this company financial stability in the near future, to re-launch it industrially, to naturally maintain employment levels, and above all to maintain stable production in Italy, in Taranto, for steel. It is true that there are Italian and foreign investors involved; there are letters of intent and - perhaps not yet, but hopefully shortly - two due diligences in progress; I therefore believe that this is something that we have, in a very complex situation, before us. The government is committed, and certainly Commissioner Gnudi is working, in a framework that we do not hide from being difficult. I believe - and this is also my personal vision - that Ilva is strategic for Italy from an industrial and employment point of view, but I would also like to say environmental, therefore the environmental recovery, sacrosanct and just, also passes through an industrial future of this company. This is the main objective that the Government has set itself. As far as industrial policies for the TTIP part are concerned, I respond to Senator Castaldi. I believe that this is a fundamental agreement for Europe, and Italy is more and more one of the countries that could benefit from it, so we will do everything in our power during the Italian Presidency to push for free trade agreements to continue and move forward. As you know, Italy has also often included the investment protection clause in its BIT (Bilateral investment Treaty) protection agreements, which have been substantially concluded over the last 40 years, so this is a highly rooted legal instrument in our international public law. At present, with the Lisbon Treaty, which called on the European Union to have competence in the protection of investment, with the simultaneous need to conclude BITs no longer at national but at European level, the problem arises, however, of considering whether these clauses should also be included in the various agreements under negotiation. The European Union is currently negotiating ISDS (Investor-state dispute settlement) clauses within free trade agreements with the United States, Canada, Singapore and Japan, as well as in the two BITs, so-called stand alone, with China and Myanmar. I believe that during the next Italian Presidency, however, we will consider starting a reflection on the creation of a model so-called template of the ISDS clause, which can be recognised as European and therefore differentiate itself from models from third countries, also to dissipate some concerns, particularly evident in the negotiations with the United States and in the attempt to avoid feeling ourselves subject to other people's rules. On the lightening of technical standards, the Government, even before giving consent to the start of TTIP negotiations, has resorted to an economic assessment of impact on our country, and the study has confirmed the benefits that could be had in the European Union, and in Italy in particular. I believe that the ultimate objective is to bring the industrial standards of the two parties closer together, or at least to mutual recognition, and I believe that this would be an extremely important result, which, from our point of view, could be of particular benefit to small and medium-sized enterprises. Senator Mancuso asked a question about the serious crisis in the manufacturing sector, asking what can be done. My origin makes me particularly sensitive to the world of small and medium-sized enterprises. Personally, I believe very much in relaunching private investment, as a first measure, in addition to those already launched, such as 10% less than IRAP and access to credit that you mentioned. Important credit access measures have been launched over the last few hours. We have just signed jointly, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the EIB, a very important agreement to make the best use of EIB financing, with a moderate guarantee from the Central Guarantee Fund, which can be a key driver for stimulating investment, especially for companies classified as small and medium-sized. There is also support for capitalization, and some of the measures contained within the publication package are fiscally conducive to the capitalization of companies; this, in addition to giving a tax benefit, allows companies to present themselves better at the time when they apply for credit. Then there are a number of other instruments, such as the so-called new Sabatini, which are producing an exceptional result, well beyond our expectations: more than one billion euros of plafond already withdrawn. Of course we don't have to stop here. In fact, I believe that support for investment and aid for taxation, and above all very strong and strong support for internationalisation (not relocation), are already, in fact, two of the strategic lines on which we are moving. With regard to growth measures, Senator Gambaro mentioned the cut in the energy bill with specific reference to renewable sources, so-called RIUs (efficient user networks) and SEUs (efficient user systems). I repeat what I have just said. We opened a consultation, which lasted months, and so we worked together with all the so-called stakeholders. It is clear that we have asked for a bit of sacrifice from those who, from our point of view, have benefited from a number of extra-rewards that the system cannot support at this time, so we are asking to restore equity and to cancel some inequalities in it. The sharing of network charges that you mentioned here today is minimal. There is no modulation; the decree will be published shortly, but it will propose an equal value for all. It is a sign of fairness to say that those who at any rate, even if self-producing with clean systems, use the network, must contribute with a small share - I think it is a correct principle - to bear the burden of the system. This is not to waste resources, but to put the same for the benefit of some small and medium-sized companies that today bear a total cost of about 15 billion energy bills, therefore from 30 to 50 percent more, also paying a large part of the network charges from which, for example, the RIU and the SEU have been completely exempted to date. It is almost more a principle than an economic one. Senator Candiani, on the foreign investor side and maintenance I can only agree with you that, if foreign investors are to arrive, it is clear that the message cannot be: they come to buy, close and take away the brand. That seems obvious to me. In some cases it is possible, in others it is not. You mentioned the case of Husqvarna, whom I know. In this case, the government has done everything it could to try to hold back the Austrian group which, however, for the time being, has not given positive signals. I would also like to remind you that there is a recent case, such as that of Electrolux, which gave a completely opposite signal: a foreign group not only maintained the productions, but kept them in Italy, rather than moving them to a country of Eastern Europe where there were, on paper, more advantageous production conditions. I believe that we must create - I have said this on many occasions - all the conditions so that, of course, Italian companies may remain and - I would say - even new ones may arise, or those that are making new productive investments, new factories (new factories, as I call them). I recently followed the Prime Minister on a trip to China, and I believe that there are plenty of opportunities around the world, and Ilva, of which we have spoken, is an example. It is an example of Italian companies that are also attractive for foreign investors. I think it is a positive sign of the dynamism of our industrial fabric. It is clear that it is necessary to create the conditions for these foreign investors to arrive in order to maintain productions in Italy. In my trip to China I have heard, from Chinese companies, that they choose Italy not only because it is a geographical location for commercial outlets on the Mediterranean, but also because there is competence, we know - how, excellent universities and an induced on mechanics of excellent value. There are reasons to continue to attract foreign investments in Italy, and it is right - and it must be so - that the Government put together all these conditions and ensure that a package is created for which to invest in Italy, maintain productions in Italy and enhance Italian skills is convenient for an Italian, as for a Chinese, an Indian, a Taiwanese or an American. For Senator Berger's part, I am sorry, I do not want to be elusive, but I do not know anything about it, in the sense that it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development. This matter is completely outside the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and falls within that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. So I cannot speak for my colleague, Minister Padoan. As for the intervention of Senator Di Biagio on the industrial compact part, I am convinced that we should look - I said it at the beginning of our mandate, from my arrival, and we will - to throw down some guidelines for what will become an Italian industrial compact. We're already working on it. We've been here for a few months, so we started the construction site. I also believe that the European industrial compact must be maintained and - indeed - the maintenance of 20% is an objective that must be put back within the European Agenda (while, today, Europe's attention has been somewhat distracted from this aspect). I think there are a lot of guidelines to operate on. Of course there is what I was saying at the beginning: consolidation to dimension internationalization and access to credit are all prerequites to build guidelines to try to stimulate industrial development in our country. I believe that a cross-cutting issue is and will be simplification. So, in addition to what is being done at government level, there will be proposals for what we have called a regulatory review, which we will do with regard, specifically, to our skills in relation to the business world, including the use of digitalization systems, which very often are considered little, but which, in reality, put together, I believe can lead to a substantial recovery in terms of cost and efficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u76	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u79	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, Minister, I would like to say very quietly that we feel reassured by your answers on such a complicated and delicate matter as that of Ilva. Of course we will be even more so in the coming weeks, when the new Commissioner is at work, although he has not genuinely understood the industrial reasons (and not linked to mere management, which goes beyond Parliament's tasks) that may have justified the change of Commissioner. In this sense, the hope is that in some way continuity will be ensured on environmental issues, and today I have read some agency launches about a meeting between you, the Environment Minister and sub-Commissioner Ronchi, which I hope will continue to carry out what was a very appreciated initiative on environmental issues. We will be even more reassured by reading in the coming days the industrial plan, when it will be ratified or updated and other documents will be announced (you mentioned a possible due diligence regarding the capital increase of Ilva and the entry of new members), in order to guarantee that liquidity and financial availability able to make investments both environmental and industrial. I close my speech by pointing out that the link between environmental investments and therefore the full implementation of the environmental plan already approved by the Government and the industrial future of Ilva di Taranto responds to the dramatic needs of a city raped from the point of view of the environment and health, but it is also a great bet to produce steel in an even more sustainable and compatible way, preserving this extraordinary atout for the industrial policy of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u82	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, I would like to welcome with some optimism the objectives you have just mentioned with regard to Ilva and therefore the industrial revival of the steel industry, environmental rehabilitation (which is a very important fact), maintaining employment levels and financial stability. It is precisely on this point that I would like to remind you that there are so many supplying companies around Ilva and that they do not receive payments to date, and that we are going to create further crises on those small and medium-sized enterprises that are already suffering at the moment. I would therefore like to ask the Government if it is possible to activate this famous loan-bridge of the Bank deposits and loans so that, in the meantime, we do not go to create further damage and favour the maintenance of those employment levels that we are trying to preserve throughout our country, and in particular in this specific case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u85	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam Minister, thank you for answering both my questions. I found quite reassuring the first part of his reply, bearing a more European than American vision, reinforced by the fact that Germany is opposed to approving an TTIP which provides for the introduction of the protection mechanism. For the second part, the one in which you said that it would favour small and medium-sized enterprises, I remind you that even in the Chamber's question time on 30 April last, you gave the same answer, but an evaluation commissioned by MISE does not say this: it says that the usual top ten will be favored, the ten companies, those that eat 72% of exports, and not the small and medium-sized enterprises that we mean, and that I believe that Senator Candiani also meant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u88	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam Minister, I welcome the good intentions of this Government, which seems to have clear ideas for restarting the Italian production machine, based above all on small and medium-sized enterprises, as you said, which are for us the excellences with exporting vocation. I am referring to the aspect of internationalisation, tax concessions, reduced labour costs, access to credit and so on: all necessary measures. I would also like to point out some weaknesses that we absolutely must remove and that we must act on, namely those concerning excessive energy costs (to which you referred), the inefficiency of bureaucracy and the rate of efficiency of justice, as well as the other problem posed by the lack of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u91	GAMBARO (Misto-ILC). Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which I consider satisfactory. I hope that the government will continue along this line in response to the needs of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u94	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, this time it has been more comprehensive. I'm appealing to you. Of course, my speech was addressed to the big companies that buy Italian companies in Italy: this impoverishes our productive activities, because the induced suffers. The French know how to defend their businesses very well. Italy does so in a more bland way. However, we must bear in mind, and our history certainly distinguishes us (I come from a reality of small and medium-sized enterprises), that Italy is not FIAT. FIAT is not the Italian industrial system. The Italian industrial system is based on those 4.3 million companies that link our typical industriality to small and medium-sized enterprises. Business costs must be reduced. The Government undertakes to remove the IMU on the productive activities, on the sheds and on the instrumental structures; this would be a real help to our enterprises, and through this will resurrect the desire of Italian investors to stay in Italy, of Italian entrepreneurs to maybe give up a few days of vacation, as happened in the fifties and sixties, and to stay in Italy and make some sacrifices for their own company and not sell it. This is what needs to be done. Get out of here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u96	You have the floor, although I think you have difficulty replying because you have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u97	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Indeed, Madam President. I thank the Minister for her clear answer. I'll try again using the other address you gave me, because I've already tried it, without success, without receiving an answer. I will try again, because it is totally unconstitutional that people living in certain areas are disadvantaged compared to others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u100	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam Minister, thank you for the evidence. I feel reassured by your commitment. Parliament wants to be a stimulus to it because the government's unavoidable commitment to business must consist in giving answers, including through policies capable of renewing our country's production system, cutting red tape, facilitating entrepreneurship, access to credit, raw materials and energy, through policies that maximise the potential of the EU's internal market by promoting the internationalisation of companies, stimulating mobility and improving training. Our country needs all of this in an unavoidable way. My wish, Madam Minister, as you have already pointed out on several occasions, is that we should not confine ourselves to statements of principle, but should commit ourselves to ensuring true coherence of policies with respect to the objective of reindustrialisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u101	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I very much thank Minister Guidi, who thus had his excellent baptism at the question time of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-267.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.16 p.m.
