ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-00621 on the rail transport of people with motor disabilities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u4	Mr President, the Senator brings to the attention of the Government the sensitive issue of assistance services for disabled people using the means of rail transport. I would point out that regional links, as far as the individual regions concerned are concerned, are also subject to the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371 of 2007, transposed by a legislative decree which, having closed its parliamentary process, is about to be finally approved by the Council of Ministers. In particular, the provision stipulates that persons with reduced mobility (PRM) must be granted access to stations, docks, rolling stock and all other services; it also requires railway undertakings to provide free assistance to get on and off the train and on board of the train; finally, it provides for an ad hoc sanctioning regime, regulating the extent of penalties and procedures for the application. Moreover, on the substance of the matter, the Italian Railway Network has pointed out that, in implementation of that Regulation, it performs the service of assistance to persons with disabilities and with reduced mobility since 2011, both by raising the quality of the conditions of accessibility at all the stations of the network that carrying out substantial interventions of structural adjustment. As regards in particular the service provided, the Italian railway network informs that the organization is coordinated by 14 blue rooms present in the main railway stations of the network, which manage the assistance within a circuit of 260 stations. In detail, the blue rooms provide information, service reservation, train guide and train guide, possibly providing wheelchairs, forklifts and free hand luggage service. The traveler can take advantage of several options, depending on his preferences and needs, for the reservation of the assistance service: by contacting the railway company with which he has chosen to travel, going directly to a blue room or sending an email or by telephone. The organization of the Italian Railway Network provides that the request for booking of the service by e-mail is made at least twenty-four hours before, time that is greatly reduced in case of request through the other channels available: in any case the notice times are always clearly inferior to the forty-eight hours provided by the European Regulation. The data reported by the Italian Railway Network, 170,000 services provided in 2012 and over 210,000 in 2013, demonstrate the intention of an improvement of the strategy of overcoming barriers and discrimination; among other things, in the perspective of the continuous improvement of the services offered to users, the Italian Railway Network has taken on the commitment, also in agreement with the consumer associations as reported in the map of services, of a progressive increase of the number of stations enabled to the service. As regards, then, the service of transport of the disabled clientele on the trains of the Venice-Padua route, I must point out that the programming and the management of the regional railway services, which mainly ensure the mobility of the commuter clientele, is the responsibility of the individual Regions (in the case in question of the Veneto Region) whose relations with Trenitalia are governed by specific service contracts, within which they are defined, inter alia, the volume and characteristics of the services to be carried out, on the basis of the economic resources made available. As reported Italian Railway Network, with the new timetable of December 2013 the number of regional trains equipped for the transport of disabled passengers on the Venice-Padua route and vice versa has been significantly increased regarding the previous offer, in force until 14 December last year; In particular, in the morning time slot from Venice to Padua - mentioned by the Senator - there are currently four regional connections on weekdays equipped for the transport of disabled passengers (against the three of the previous timetable), departing from Venice at 8.05, 8.35, 10.35 and 10.49. In addition, in the afternoon from Padua on weekdays, the regional trains equipped for the transport of disabled passengers today are six (against the two of the previous timetable), departing from Padua at 16.25, 16.39, 17.05, 17.23, 17.35 and 18.05. Finally, in response to the request for verification of the efficiency of the transport of persons with disabilities, I inform you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has started the control activities on trains in service contract for the average and long national journey, with special verification of the compliance with the obligations provided for there in the matter of PRM, including the verification of the reserved places or dedicated on board the train.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u7	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply and for the commitment he has made in the search for data. When I drafted this question, I was perfectly aware of the fact that there was a double level of competence: a national competence, with regard to the management of the railway service, with specific reference to the facilitation and non-discrimination of persons with reduced motor disability, and a specific case, which I would like to call a pilot case, which is that of Veneto. This is why, together with the question resigned to the previous Government, which she has now taken into her hands by responding to me as a representative of the Government, the Venetian Regional Council has also asked a similar question with specific reference to the routes and timetables of railway services. Mr Undersecretary, I am partially satisfied with the way in which Trenitalia has increased the time service on the Venice-Padua route and vice versa, partly because the problem, as it was stated, I would like to stress this, is not only in Veneto. The case of the Veneto Region has been pointed out to me and has been considered by the undersigned emblematic of a disservice certainly no longer bearable - I apologise I do not have the habit of being emphatic - in a country that claims to call itself civil. We cannot think that people with reduced mobility, therefore with motor disabilities, should see this discomfort highlighted when they access normal means of transport. It is very true that the Veneto Region, together with Trenitalia and the Italian Railway Network, has tried, specifically from December to the present day, to improve the service and, with regard to the competence and the regional functionality that she has rightly pointed out to be specific field of operation of that part of my question, this has partially buffered - and I emphasize the expression "tamponato" - a problem. That problem, however, has a much wider matrix and impact on that part of society that we want and must protect. I am not just referring to us as legislators, domestic and tax regulators of constitutional legislation which, in Articles 2 and 3, already very correctly confines the issue of non-discrimination and rights recognised as being equal. Article 2 speaks of inviolable rights, of fundamental rights, which must be recognized erga omnes and in this expression there is all the essence of the first and most general part of my question. Article 3, the cornerstone of our constitutional structure, speaks of equal treatment of equal situations and compensation for inequality in unequal situations, and this is the essence of the principle of non-discrimination. It is appropriate - and I would say that it could not have been otherwise - that the legislation of the European Economic Community which is now the European Union, both in its non-binding part, i.e. in the Treaties which recognise fundamental rights as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and even more so in the Treaty of Lisbon, deals specifically with the issue of non-discrimination for disability and the different structures and ways of manifesting this non-discrimination in social life and, in this sense, appropriately transposes a fundamental convention, which she has mentioned in part in her content. In this respect, I would like to stress, precisely because the subject is supranational, European and national together, what, in my opinion, are the general problems that this Government cannot but address. The first issue which concerns not only regional restrictions is the number of coaches actually placed at the disposal of people with reduced mobility, which is still too few. She spoke of 260 stations equipped for assistance to passengers, but I remind all of us - and I do not need to remind her - that the stations in Italy are 2,000 and 260 stations out of 2,000 are very few. I would remind you that access is also complicated and certainly does not meet the needs, so I cannot be satisfied, while respecting your work, with the data of your response. Access to assistance also does not meet the requirements of non-discrimination I was referring to earlier, because talking about 14 blue points (rooms or rooms) on 2,000 stations is really too little. Another important element, which I would like to stress once again, is the cost. On the regional train we should guarantee a free transfer to people with reduced mobility, where instead the Frecciargento, Frecciabianca and Frecciarossa, that is the high-speed trains, require the payment of the full price of the ticket for the person with reduced mode and for his companion. Other considerations I would like to make, but time does not allow me to do so. However, I believe that you have perfectly understood the subject that is at the root of my need not to declare myself completely satisfied with your reply. Many things are still to be done, many numbers are still to be increased, many sensitivities are still to be fed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u8	There follows the questioning 2-00146, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Article 156- bis of the Regulation, on the management of water resources by the Baraggia reclamation consortium. I call Senator Favero to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, my fellow Senators, the abbreviated question, presented with other colleagues on 2 April last, refers to some irregularities committed by the Baraggia reclamation consortium, an economic public body operating on the Biella and Vercellese area, which would affect the realization of a useless and costly work such as that of the dam in Valsessera. Before illustrating this act, I would like to remind you that water is a common good, a very precious resource, so much so that the plan of protection of the Piedmont Region imposes a rational use against all forms of waste. I come to briefly describe the facts. The court of Vercelli, by judgment No 430 of 8 November 2013, rejected the claim for damages for defamation proposed by the reclamation consortium of the Biella Baraggia and Vercellese against Mr R. D. It is proved, in fact, that the consortium dispersed, in 2006 and then also in 2007, a significant amount of irrigation water intended for farmers in the district of Albano Vercellese, first through the closure of the cable on the Lonza road (which serves the district of Albano) and, therefore, by conveying a large amount of water to the river Sesia, where it ended up in landfill. It also emerged through documentary evidence that the alleged fact was true that the amount of water destined for the land included in the Albano Vercellese district would have suffered a radical decrease. It is therefore established that the Baraggia reclamation consortium did not meet the water needs of the Albano district, having deliberately conveyed the available and already derived waters into the canals of the consortium in the Sesia river. This procedure, as would emerge from the complaints of the farmers themselves, would seem to emphasize the need of the rice sector and justify the need for structural works such as, in fact, the plan to redeploy the invaded torrent Severa, in place of the existing work of the agency. This project, Mr. Deputy Minister, as described in a previous act of inspection union (the 3-00405), signed by 60 colleagues, since its presentation has aroused concern and protests from most municipal administrations and from a movement of public opinion, represented by the voluntary association "Custoamo la Valsessera" which have assessed it negatively. The reasons for this opposition are primarily environmental: the damage caused by this hydraulic work would be irreversible and not mitigateable in a protected area of great naturalistic value and of Community interest. The economic and financial benefits would also be null and void. The estimated amount would be EUR 322.350,000, which is likely to be underestimated and not even partially supported by the users of the investment, but to be fully borne by the public finances. The cost-benefit ratio would therefore be absolutely negative, especially in a national context of extreme economic and financial difficulty. The need for irrigation of the rice fields in the area, moreover, would be the result of exaggerated estimates and forecasts, according to the association "Custoamo la Valsessera". In view of this, it is asked to know whether and what initiatives the Government intends to take in order that the Piedmont Region may have the inspections provided for in Article 42 (4) and (5) of Regional Law No 21 of 1999, in order to ascertain the proper functioning of the bodies of the consortium and, in case, to order the dissolution of the Council of Delegates for repeated and serious violations of the law or the statute, persistent inactivity and serious administrative and accounting irregularities. It also asks what is the assessment of the project, its validity and its actual necessity, which, in the opinion of the respondents, many local authorities and the citizens of the areas concerned, risks having serious environmental, economic and civic consequences on the realities involved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question I am going to answer concerns the possibility of carrying out inspections at the reclamation consortium of Baraggia Biellese and Vercellese, as well as the assessment of the appropriateness and usefulness of a project for the realization of an invasion of the river Sessera, in the Piedmont Region, initiated by the aforementioned consortium. In this regard, I would first of all like to point out to the interrogating senators that the Ministry will make a request for information to the Piedmont Region regarding the whole matter described in the questioning, in order to activate - as requested - the supervisory action, pursuant to Article 42, paragraphs 4 and 5, of Regional Law No 21 of 1999. With regard to the plan to redeploy the invasion of the river Sessera (in place of the existing one), I would point out that the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, already in 2011, had submitted in this regard, pursuant to Article 2 of the decree of the President of the Republic 27 April 2006, n. 204, a request for an opinion to the President of the General Assembly of the Council of Higher Public Works representing, at the same time, that there was no commitment to the total or partial financing of the proposed initiative. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - Directorate-General for Water and Electricity Dams and Infrastructures (on 29 July 2011) and the Piedmont Region, with the resolution of the Regional Council of 2 July 2012 have given a favourable opinion on this project. On the other hand, following the meetings of 12 and 26 October 2012, the Higher Council of Public Works considered it necessary for the project to be integrated and optimised. I would also like to point out that, regardless of the judicial judgements which, of course, do not apply to us, the Vercelli Court has established that the consortium in question has not met the water needs of the Albano Vercellese district. In any case, this work has not found financial coverage, nor will it be able to obtain it in the programming of irrigation infrastructure interventions currently foreseen in the 2014-2020 programming of the Rural Development Fund, given the high financial dimension. In fact, the national operational programme, in the agreement reached in the State-Regions Conference on 16 January, was planned for a total of 300 million euros. Finally, I think it is useful to point out that in the technical commission for the verification of the environmental impact EIA and VAS, established pursuant to Article 9 of the decree of the President of the Republic of 14 May 2007, n. 90, (the members of which are appointed by decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea), there are in progress in order to verify that the availability of the drinking water resource to the populations concerned is guaranteed, defining its quantitative aspects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u13	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, I am pleased with the reply made by the Deputy Minister, and I thank him, also for his promptness. By virtue of what has already been expressed, I also ask if it is not the case to suspend the authorization procedure in place at the competent Ministry until the regional commission that will be established will not exhaust the task entrusted, or at least until the installation of the new Regional Council of Piedmont, which will have to express itself in this regard, taking into account the significant innovations emerged precisely with the decision of the court of Vercelli n. 430 of 8 November 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u14	Question 300778 on the creation of a European Gendarmerie Force follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u15	Mr President, Senators, the European Gendarmerie Force, born from the experience gained by the Carabinieri and the European Gendarmerie in international missions, has taken on an important role among the crisis management tools available to international organisations, as a means of intervention able to operate effectively in highly destabilised scenarios outside the national territories of the Member States. The only standing structure of Eurogendfor (EGF) is the Permanent Head Quarter (PHQ), which is based in Vicenza, with planning tasks, development of the doctrine related to the use of police forces in peace missions and organization of joint training. The headquarters does not play a role of command towards the personnel who are employed, under the aegis of EGF, in missions of peace abroad; the soldiers sent by each member country are in fact subject to the respective chains of command of the mission. Participation in any international operations shall take place at the request of international organisations and, of course, subject to the authorisation of their respective governments and parliaments, whose national sovereignty is fully safeguarded by the Treaty establishing them, signed in the Netherlands, in Velsen, on 18 October 2007 and ratified by Italy by Law No 84 of 2010. Having said that, with reference to the operational conditions for the use and deployment of Eurogendfor on our territory, it is a multinational structure that operates exclusively outside the national territory and the borders of the countries of the European Union. As mentioned above, the EGF contributes to crisis management operations, to the reconstruction of state apparatus and police forces in countries in a conflict situation. As for the manner in which the Italian Police Forces and the Italian Armed Forces will relate to Eurogendfor, it is evident that there are constant relations between the Arma dei Carabinieri - member of the EGF - and the other National Police and Armed Forces; in particular, the exercises of national importance organized by the Arma dei Carabinieri are invited to participate representatives of EGF and other national Police Forces. With reference, however, to the timetable of the Velsen Treaty, some technical agreements are being drawn up for the implementation of those provisions contained in the above-mentioned Treaty, which require further detailed requirements for their full enforceability. Specifically, they are in the process of approval: an agreement to support the headquarters in order to define the ways in which the host State must support, from a logistical and organisational point of view, the headquarters; an agreement for the exchange of information between the member countries of the EGF; an Agreement for the definition of the administrative support of the PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ/PHQ) by the host State. As regards the powers of the Italian judicial authority in the presence of an offence by Italian staff in service at the EGF, it is stressed that Italy, in addition to being a Member State since its constitution, is also a host State, according to the Treaty of Velsen: as we have pointed out, the headquarters of the PHQ is in Vicenza. Article 25 of the Treaty of Velsen regulates the right to exercise criminal and disciplinary jurisdiction, conferred by its own legislation, in respect of military and civil personnel, identifying individual and specific hypotheses of exclusive or concurrent competence. In particular, in cases of shared jurisdiction, the competent authorities of the home State will have the right of priority in the exercise of jurisdiction over military and civil personnel in the case of: offences committed exclusively against the property or security of that State or offences committed exclusively against the person or property of the military or civil personnel of that State or of a family member; offences resulting from any act or omission committed in the conduct of service activities. In the case of other offences, the authorities of the host State or receiving State shall have the right of priority in the exercise of jurisdiction. In any case, the right of the authorities of the State of origin to exercise their jurisdiction over nationals of the host or receiving State is expressly excluded. Finally, it is noted that for the Italian military under the HQ of the EGF the possible criminal and personal liability subjugated to the jurisdiction of the judiciary (ordinary and military) provided by the Italian law. In this case, the "State of origin of the staff" and the "host State" coincide in the same Italian State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u18	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the Undersecretary has specified that this police intervention force with functions of gendarme is deployed outside the territories of the Member States of Europe. It seems to me that Greece is part of the European Union: or has it just left? There are in fact journalistic sources who report photographs of a contingent of Eurogendfor that seemed to be deployed in the Greek bases. We would therefore like to know whether this activity has taken place, whether it has been authorised by some Parliament and which departments have taken part in it. With regard to immunity, yes, Article 25 of the Treaty regulates some of them, but it should be read in Articles 21 to 24 and everyone seems to be concerned with a sort of immunity with regard to the activities of Eurogendfor and staff; and it seems that the articles present contradictions between them. You said, Mr Undersecretary, that there are no contradictions, but we would be more relaxed if a whole series of immunitys, which are in any case provided for, were regulated differently and in a more appropriate way not only to Italian law, but also to European law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u19	Following are the questions 2-00104, 2-00106, 2-00107 and 2-00135 on the initiatives promoted by UNAR in schools. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate the questions 2-00104 and 2-00135.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u20	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I do not speak on my own behalf, because these questions are presented by a large part of the Group of the New Right Centre, including its President. I must also say that with great surprise I do not see the representatives of the Presidency of the Council present in the Chamber, because on 18 December 2013 the senators of the New Right Centre Group had already presented to the President of the Council the question 2-00104 which concerned the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR) from a more general point of view, as it were. The UNAR is a body set up by the Presidency of the Council, under a European directive, which required Member States to establish bodies which must ensure equal treatment and the removal of discrimination based on racial and ethnic origin (rebadication: race and ethnic origin). According to the transposition of the Directive, this body must act in full autonomy of judgement and in conditions of impartiality, i.e. autonomy of judgement and impartiality. This body, by administrative means and without any primary rules, has also extended its competence to LGBT people (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and transgender). Also in order to comply with the question of impartiality, equal treatment and autonomy of judgment, the UNAR on 20 November 2012 established a working group of 29 associations, including: Provincial Committee Arcigay "Chimera Arcobaleno" of Arezzo; Ireos - Centro servizi autogestito comunità (Centro services self-managed community) (Queer) Arcigay; Comitato provinciale Arcigay (Centro provinciale Arcigay) (Octavio Mai) of Turin; Parks - Free and equal. They are 29 associations all of the gay, transsexual and homosexual world. And in collaboration with these associations, and only with these associations, the UNAR issued a document entitled "National strategy for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity (2013-2015) ", published on the website of the Presidency of the Council, as well as a further document known as "Communicating without prejudice", a kind of veil from Minculpop, in which they give directions to newspapers and televisions on how to deal with these topics, also in language. The "Avvenire" wrote that it is a "decalogue" that overthrows reality, because one must sweeten reality in such a way that he no longer calls things by their name. For example, you don't have to talk about the uterus for rent, even if that's what it's about, but you have to use a different language. As early as December, then, we had asked the government to explain how it was possible for this to happen, in contempt of the law. In fact, the law does not provide for these tasks under the UNAR, much less through mechanisms of publication and advice built in this way, with a totally partisan body, which represents only a point of view, moreover on a matter that does not belong to it. In fact, it does not appear to me that discrimination based on race and ethnic origin has any relation to sexual orientations: I just don't know what they have to do with it. And it is not over here, because I now come to the subject of questioning 2-00135, which I presented to the Ministry of Education. I would like to thank Mr Toccafondi, although I would have expected a representative of the Council Presidency, perhaps even with a direct commitment from the Minister of Education. But here today is the Undersecretary Toccafondi, who is certainly a very authoritative person. UNAR has decided to carry out a school activity and to come into contact with children and children in order to combat discrimination. To this end, he gave EUR 26 or 27 thousand to a certain Beck Institute in Rome to draw up brochures on education for diversity. If you visit the site of this institute, you will see that this is totally deployed on the border of transgender and gender diversity, which denies that there are males and females. The Beck Institute, of course on the basis of its guidelines, has written and formulated three booklets to be distributed to children, whose substantial juice is that to give birth to homophobia are the State, the family and religion. These are the organisms to fight. In fact, the more religious a person is, the more homophobic he is. The more a religious formation orientation is present, the more this component must be fought. There is a whole series of such reasonings. When these booklets began to arrive, the question was who authorized them to enter the schools. I have some data here. Maria Cecilia Guerra, who at the time was Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, with delegation to equal opportunities, declared on February 16 of this year that "that teaching material was made without my knowledge and without any agreement with the MIUR" and added that it was UNAR that authorised the dissemination of the same material (with the logo of the Department for Equal Opportunities of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers) without the Director De Giorgi giving me any information about it, nor that I was aware of the results of the research, of which I even ignored the existence. For this attitude the Deputy Minister Guerra had sent a formal note of demerit to De Giorgi stating that a sensitive matter such as that of education to diversity requires particular attention to the content and language of the subject and that it is also not acceptable that teaching material on these topics be disseminated among teachers by an equal opportunities office without any agreement with the MIUR. So, there's something to go through. because Mr. De Giorgi is still in his place as director of UNAR, despite censorship. These booklets, Mr. Undersecretary, unfortunately continue to circulate in schools, on the basis of an information strategy of the UNAR that wants to condition. To be clear, for example, the city council member Seibezzi in Venice had tried to distribute to children from three to six years old (I have a niece of three years), that is in kindergartens and nursery schools, booklets in which the image of two male penguins with an egg was painted and where it was explained how it was a natural thing that two male penguins can bring to life through an egg. Always according to this informative strategy, it is not that a child has its natural evolution of femininity and a child has its natural evolution of masculinity: this is caused by the conditioning of school, family and society. So, no dolls to girls, even if they want them, no male games: children must be taught that they are neutral and can change sex and sexual orientation depending on the story of life. So I said, hands off the kids! When an adult is of age, he can do whatever he wants (it would not be necessary), he has the right, without discrimination. These aberrant theories can be supported freely in the political dialectic, but here it is about the State, these things appear on the website of the Presidency of the Council and have been done - if it is true what Mrs Guerra says, but we have the Undersecretary for Education who can inform us - without the Ministry knowing absolutely anything about it, without anyone giving permission to print these things. Excuse me, Mr Undersecretary: on the money spent by the UNAR, on the more than 20,000 euro data to this Beck institute and on the advices the Court of Auditors has nothing to say? The UNAR is illegitimate! Because there is no primary rule that has ever given him the responsibility to care for other than racial and ethnic discrimination, which has nothing to do with sexual orientation. We - it is well known - are part of a pro-temporaneous majority of a government pro-temporaneous and facing constitutional reforms (which are very important, we would miss something else), but we are in this government and in this majority to do those things, while these things do not fall into the government agreements or the majority's programmes and we cannot tolerate that, while we are talking about reforms, in a surreptitious way, instruments are being used by the Presidency of the Council to indoctrinate or convey guidelines that we do not share in the most absolute way. When we then read that the ministers themselves or Undersecretaries or Deputy Ministers, perhaps from political parts other than mine - Cecilia Guerra was PD - candidly claim to have been bypassed and even say that those who run these things deserve censorship, the question is: if it deserves censorship, if it has been incorrect, if it does wrong things, if it has bypassed the Ministry of Education, if things are not shared, why does it continue to be there? Is it permissible for a body that is called impartial, that must operate in full autonomy of judgment and in conditions of impartiality, to surround itself with consultants that are all of the Italian gay associations? Where's impartiality? And all the organizations in the school, from the parent association to the myriads of associations that would like and should participate in the school? It may also be that there is someone in Italy who has different orientations from those of the Arcigay. I don't know how much longer in this country we can talk without being indicted. As you and the Government know, in the Justice Commission we are examining the so-called Scalfarotto measure that wants to strike people who say the things I am saying with years in prison. If that law were passed and I supported, for example, that I am opposed (as I am) to homosexual marriage or to the uterus for rent or to the fact that homosexual couples can adopt children I would be indicted on the basis of the Mancino-Reale law. I am not unaware that these things are part of a broader strategy that wants to impose certain visions of life that we absolutely do not share. We know what the theory of the genre is: it can be discussed, but you can't use the school as a vehicle to indoctrinate the kids. You cannot call in Rome - Undersecretary, you will tell me if these things have been suspended - all school leaders, principals and teachers to indoctrinate them and induce them to convey this kind of message to schools. This morning in the paper there was news of a little girl who came home and explained to the parent, who made a controversy, of course, that children are born from men, or something like that. It must be explained that, always according to theory, there are techniques, etc. Undersecretary, this is very important to us. I deeply regret that the Presidency of the Council has not presented itself. I am very sorry that the Presidency of the Council may not have understood the seriousness of the behaviour that is going on through the publication of this type of publications on the website of the Presidency of the Council, which I am - I stress - on the side of a body which has already been heavily censored by the Government itself. So I expect today, from the Ministry of Education, a clear, precise, clear, clear answer about what was happening in schools, and that I hope it will not happen again for the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Malan to explain questions 2-00106 and 2-00107.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Toccafondi, who is Undersecretary to a certain Ministry, but is here to represent the Government. We have seen so many times that, for example, the Secretary of State has responded to questions and questions to Parliament, so I imagine that Mr Toccafondi is fully empowered to answer these questions (three out of four are addressed to the Presidency of the Council). The first question at my signature refers to the National Strategy for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, drawn up by the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office. I associate myself with those who have preceded me by stressing the fact that this is a whole job that goes outside the tasks assigned by its own name to the UNAR and that therefore all this activity is to be sanctioned from every point of view, even from the accounting point of view, which today seems to matter much more than the Constitution. But in the meantime there is also this aspect: it is an activity carried out outside its own order. It would be as if the General Accounting of the State were to organize hotel activities, party activities or religious activities; instead, it must only do the General Accounting of the State. In the same way, the UNAR must deal with ethnic and racial discrimination and not spread according to the ideology of those who dominate it. This document is particularly interesting, as in several points it is openly opposed to what the Constitution says. The Constitution, in Article 29, states very clearly what the family is. And, if it is not clear, the Constitutional Court has specified that however that article, which does not mention the fact that marriage is that between man and woman (and the family is founded on marriage), intends to say just that and it is obvious, having been written in 1947. In this document, among other things, there is a specific point that is called "Axis education and education", therefore clearly addressed to the dissemination in schools of the ideological theory of gender, based on non-scientific assumptions; this does not mean that it is necessarily against science, but it is a purely ideological aspect that has no scientific foundation or proof. Among other implications, there is the one for which family is whatever comes into mind to one or more individuals to say it is. In fact, there is talk of new family realities, with explicit reference to nuclei or groups of people based on the coexistence between two men and two women. As part of this document, it is assumed that the expertise of the LGBT associations will be used, which, since they were the only ones consulted, come before the families, before the associations of students and before the associations of teachers. The preparation of the administrative and didactic scholastic modules in a social inclusion key, respectful of the new family realities, is also imposed, again with wording contrary to the Constitution, and is also constituted by homosexual parents (this is clearly said). So practically the words "father" and "mother" should no longer be used on the modules, which must be banned from the vocabulary and possibly also from the sacred texts; they must be replaced with "parent" and "parent" 2. I guess you'll have to say (I don't mean this as a joke because later we'll see that in the other document you also want to involve ecclesiastical authorities): honor parent 1 and parent 2. It is also expected that LGBT associations will be accredited to the MIUR as training bodies, without these obviously having any basis for this recognition. The document provides for the creation of innovative training and refresher courses for managers, teachers and pupils on anti-discrimination subjects, with a particular focus on the LGBT theme, and the knowledge of new family realities (there is a hammering down on this aspect), and it is specified that this training will have to be addressed not only to the teaching staff but also to students with a recognition for both educational credits. This means that there is room for these associations which do not have any educational qualification, and which have in their own instrument the fact of being partisan, the faculty of carrying out courses in which teachers and students will be obliged to participate; courses that will give educational credits as if it were an hour of teaching. In addition to the right of parents to educate their children, as enshrined in our Constitution, this document also goes against Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which guarantees the freedom to manifest their religious values in education, and Article 26, where parents are given the right of priority in the choice of education to be given to their children. There are other pearls in this document, but there is also another, "Linee guida per un'informazione respectosa dei personi LGBT" (LGBT) published on 19 December by the Department of Equal Opportunities at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which, like the previous one, bears the insignia of the Italian Republic and the Presidency of the Council, which is why it is an expression not already of the President of the Council protempore of then or that of today, not of him and his Subsecretaries, and not only of the Government and the majority that supports it, but of the Italian people. Well, in this document there is a theorization of a number of points, most of which are against Italian law. It begins in the document lamenting the fact that the incitements to hatred and discrimination still occupy a significant space in statements from public authorities and representatives of political and ecclesiastical institutions, and are constantly conveyed by the Italian media. There is therefore an aspiration to coart not only the statements of the public authorities, which should respond to the Constitution and not to a document of the Department of Equal Opportunities, but also the ecclesiastical authorities, whose autonomy and freedom of expression are sanctioned, as well as by Article 21 of the Constitution, which applies for all, also by Articles 7 and 8 of the Constitution, which give ecclesiastical organizations their independence. There are some truly ideological statements; indeed, they are all ideological statements, and in particular the theory of gender is brought to its extremes - an ultra-radical gender theory - for example where the definition of sexual orientation as choice is condemned. Since bisexuality is also involved in sexual orientation, it is therefore stated that bisexuality is also not a choice but an unbearable nature of the individual. This implies - since it is ideologicalized - that sexual relations are beyond the will of individuals, because bisexuality obviously involves a choice (now you will have a relationship with a person of your own sex, now with that other person), but if this is considered an unbearable thing it means that every sexual act is unbearable, which would, for example, lead to the non punishableness of any kind of sexual behavior, from incest to pedophilia, to rape; and of course, adultery should not be sanctioned in any way, even in the context of a marriage recognized also by the State. Other ultra-ideological aspects of this document are that the path from heterosexual behavior to homosexual behavior is seen in an exclusively positive sense, considered as becoming aware and accepting one's homosexuality by beginning to live relationships and to declare oneself outside; the reverse, that is, the transition from homosexual behavior to heterosexual behavior, is seen as a manipulative act, resulting from manipulative influences, which can cause serious consequences on the psychic plane. People who do not conform to these ideologies are accused of expressing their opinions as a reassurance of their sexuality, so those who are in favour of the traditional family probably have an uncertain sexual identity: defined in elegant language, they are insulting tricks that on a football field would be punished. The Presidency of the Council, however, puts the stamp on us; and I repeat that the Presidency of the Council is not the private property of the President of the Council and his friends, but it is the expression of the Italian people (or should be). There are some really weird points. For example, it is stigmatized that in too many television broadcasts, when there are statements in favour of the so-called rights of homosexuals, the opinions of those who are opposed to these rights (such as gay marriage or equivalent institutions) are also reported; instead, it is stated that one can very well represent only one position because it is a choice of value. Therefore, it is an incontrovertible issue: not only do we claim the equal citizenship of institutions that are not provided for by the Italian Constitution, such as gay marriage, but it is even established that this is an incontrovertible fact so that we do not even have to give a voice to those who are against it. When talking about family, there is a insistence, I would say, maniacal in saying that the family is not what the Constitution provides, that is, the one founded on marriage between a man and a woman, but any kind of aggregation; therefore, we must not talk about gay family or homosexual family, but also about traditional family, because it is family and that's all. The Constitution says something else, but a document from the Presidency of the Council states that the family is whoever decides to define themselves as such; at most the expression "homogenital family" is allowed to be used, forgetting that this too is prohibited by Italian law. Despite the rampage of the Constitutional Court in the areas of Parliament, despite this rampage against the Constitutional Court, it has not yet reached the point of establishing by way of a Constitutional Court or by law that two men or two women can be declared parents of a child; in the guidelines imposed and disseminated by the Presidency of the Council this is the case. Even the expression "gay marriages" cannot be used because it is just a marriage. Here too the law says something else, but the Presidency of the Council puts its stamp on the opposite. We come to ideological limits that have been known in the darkest years of the most insane dictatorships, because reality bends to ideology. For example, this document rejects the conviction as a commonplace - it notes well: the conviction, not the fact - that a child needs a male and a female figure (even here not taking into account what the law provides) and does not even tolerate the expression - here we come to madness - adoption in the case of surrogate motherhood (i.e. womb in rent), as an expression born from prejudice - writes this document of the Presidency of the Council - according to which the homosexual couple is sterile: therefore it boils as, I would say, mortal sin - if the document under consideration was not totally anti-religious - the fact of expressing the conviction, however rather founded in science, that children are born from the union between a man and a woman. At this point I wonder what is the position of the Presidency of the Council, of the Government as a whole, and also of the Ministry with which Dr Toccafondi is Undersecretary, because we must determine whether the Italian Government is against the Constitution and against the law or whether it believes to respect, in the text in force today and of course in the different one that can apply a tomorrow, the Constitution and the law. I think it's important. In fact, if he believes he respects the Constitution and the law, I think he must suspend in any way the spread of these guidelines and strategies, prohibit its dissemination in public offices, schools and in any other area, censor in a very energetic way the director of the UNAR or who for him has taken initiatives completely outside of his competence and cancel these documents, stating clearly that the Presidency of the Council, and therefore the Italian Government, has nothing to do with this. Otherwise, it means that it is against the Constitution and against the law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond jointly to the questions that have just been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u22	Mr President, as the Ministry of Education, we have not received from the Presidency of the Council any comprehensive and comprehensive elements for an integrated and coordinated response, as a duty, to the questions put by the President-in-Office of the Council. 104, 106 and 107 addressed to the Presidency of the Council as a government body that depends on the Department of Equal Opportunities at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, Mr President, I shall confine myself to answering the question addressed to the Ministry of Education, University and Research, No 135, the first Senator Giovanardi signatory. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Education, University and Research considers it very important to encourage education in schools to respect diversity and to combat all forms of violence and discrimination. With regard to the booklets on education for diversity, drawn up by the Beck Institute, on behalf of the UNAR (National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office), I would like to stress that the Ministry of Education has not been involved in the preparation of such material nor has it been involved in the subsequent phases of programming for its dissemination in schools. However, given that there has been no such spread, I consider it stigmatizing that some form of knowledge of this material (which has been made available on the Beck Institute website) has taken place without the Ministry of Education being informed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, the reply will also be a little problematic because of the embarrassment caused by the relapse, the lack of the Presidency of the Council on a subject of such importance. In fact, if we can all agree with what the Undersecretary said, namely that the school must be a gymnasium of tolerance, of fighting bullying and all forms of discrimination, this must be valid at three hundred and sixty degrees, because the education to cohabitation is valid for forms of prevarication that can be referred to many cases. I am referring, for example, to the poorest schoolmates, to those who unfortunately live with disabilities and can be delighted by schoolmates precisely for this or for racial issues (our schools today are multi-ethnic, so you have to have the guard raised against forms of racism against children who come from other realities); then surely there is homophobia. However, we must consider that there is an interforce body, formed by Police and Carabinieri, which for four years has been making precise monitoring of all the episodes of discrimination and also of aggression or injury to the rights of homosexual people, since all these activities so specific are motivated by this homophobic emergency that there would be in the country: well, this organism in four years has detected 83 cases; that is, throughout Italy, between physical violence, epithets and insults, 83 cases have been recorded in four years. If we were to talk about violence against women or violent incidents taking place in schools on racial or sexual matters, we would have thousands or tens of thousands of cases. As Mr Malan has rightly said, this action by the Presidency of the Council and this attempt to invade schools is a precise ideological choice which has nothing to do with the education of tolerance, democracy and respect for all that must take place in Italian schools: in public schools, in those that are part of the national education system and in those that are not part of it. There is nothing else to be missed; it is the principles of tolerance and democratic respect for the people who must be the basis of education. But here we are talking about something else, that is, an indoctrination, an attempt to indoctrinate that - alas - is conveyed by the sites of the Presidency of the Council, with a series of statements that go against the secular and republican Constitution in force in Italy, against our legal order and - if you will allow - many times they also go against common sense, because they are the voice of a militant area of the homosexual movement that - attention - does not represent all Italian homosexuals. I will never tire of saying that all of us in our lives know people of different sexual orientation, who live their lives and have their principles. I remember that in one of the demonstrations in Rome recently held to protest against this attempt to criminalize the opinion, the most applauded intervention in a square with 1,000 people was that of a French homosexual, who came with his partner, with whom he lives, who supported us because, even if he is homosexual and lives with another man, he does not believe that marriage can be an institution to be used between man and man or woman and woman, and is opposed to the adoption and take-up of the uterus of other women to satisfy parenting. He was a homosexual, he was very applauded and he struggled with us with a vision of life different from that of the gay militant movements that embodied the UNAR. The problem with UNAR, in fact, is that it is no longer an impartial and independent state body, but a reality that carries projects. When I come to the conclusion and summing up, I must say that I am satisfied with the Secretary's reply regarding the behaviour of the Ministry of Education, which guarantees, firstly, that it does not know, secondly, that it has been bypassed and, thirdly, that the booklets should disappear. Perhaps there is still something to be clarified about the convocation to Rome and what Mr Malan has reminded us of, wondering who does the training courses to teachers and who manages this very delicate phase. On the other hand, I am totally dissatisfied with the Council Presidency's absence. I recall once again that I am not just speaking on behalf of Senator Giovanardi, but of a parliamentary group which is a majority and which is very embarrassed at the time when the Presidency of the Council, in the face of such detailed and precise complaints, does not give an answer and does not do what it has to do, that is, a very simple thing: to remove these lines from the websites of the Presidency of the Council, which cannot represent either the line of the Government, or that of Parliament, or that of our Constitution, at least until the one in force is changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am shocked by the answer from Mr Toccafondi. I understand that its role, unfortunately - as is almost always the role of those who come here to respond to the acts of inspection unions - is to read what is written elsewhere, but this is one of the many things that should be changed, even before changing direction, in order to avoid that, changing direction, they continue to do the same things as before, even a little worse. It is necessary to prevent the Government from becoming one of those comic film offices that sends the citizen back to this or to that door (from the "Z" to the "K42" window) to request this or that form (the "R58" or another): if this game is played here in Parliament, it is frankly disconcerting. The Undersecretary for Education answers in a laconic - I would say - manner on the issue of education, while he does not tell us a word about everything else: not a word about the responsibilities behind it, nor about the expenses that have been incurred. It does not tell us whether these booklets are still in circulation or whether, on the basis of these booklets, children are still being indoctrinated in schools. We in this House - we are not many, but I would say that it is normal, given that we are examining acts of inspection union - we know that these booklets have been disavowed by the Ministry: but do the teachers and all those schools in which LGBT associations take over, which rise to the level of state authority, almost a sort of political commissioner? About this nothing. Well, it is clear that it is as if this answer had not been there. I personally thank the Undersecretary Toccafondi, but it is clear that, from a parliamentary point of view, this is a mockery of the Senate. Undersecretary Toccafondi certainly cannot answer on the matter of the Presidency of the Council, if he is not given information about it, but we are talking about issues that have been going on for four months, the subject of various questions and questions, to which a reply has been repeatedly requested. There is talk of this, even if there is a censorship on this, perhaps suggested by the same guidelines that we are talking about here today, but I really ask that this behavior be censored. In theory, the government should respond to all the acts of inspection union; we know that this is fundamentally impossible, so it has been tolerated, for decades now, that it responds only to some, but at least to these must respond, especially to those to whom a response has been requested several times. A reply like today's is clearly a non-answer, so I ask you, President, to re-calibrate, as soon as possible, the conduct of these interrogations - I am speaking at least for those I have presented - because the Government cannot hide saying that we have to go to the next door. The Government, according to the Constitution - which is always the same - and according to the Rules of the Senate, is a unitary body, not a plurality of subjects: those who come here represent the Government. If you, Undersecretary Toccafondi, come here to give us an opinion on a matter relating to foreign affairs or the budget, that is for us the opinion of the Government; it is not your personal opinion that, although authoritative, would be irrelevant here. Therefore, the government cannot play these games and make fun of Parliament. If this is Italy changing its way, let's hope it doesn't change that much.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u29	It is not up to the Presidency to go into the matter. If we were at an examination session, we would tell the candidate-government to come back more prepared on the subject. I do not want to take charge of it to the representative of the Government, whose role I respect, and I believe that the Presidency should appreciate Senator Malan's willingness to repeat his interrogation and I will personally assume, as a Presidency, that they can be carried out again in order to know what has happened. [[Senator Giovanardi gave his consent.]] From the gestures I believe that Senator Giovanardi, together with his group colleagues, will also insist in the same sense. I consider this disgusting episode, because it does not actually present itself without any element in the Senate Chamber which, although it is reserved today only for the interrogating senators and the representative of the government called to respond, is nevertheless the Senate Chamber. The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-229.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 15 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.20 p.m.
