ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 8 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law 1302. The rapporteur, Senator Razzi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law authorizes the ratification and implementation of the Additional Protocol to the 1989 Convention between Italy and the Republic of Korea aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in respect of income taxes. The Additional Protocol, signed in Seoul in April 2012, intervenes to adapt the legal framework for the economic-tax relations between Italy and Korea, as established by the Convention, to the international criteria in this area, as well as to the changes that have taken place in the meantime. The text of the Protocol consists of 6 articles. Article I affects the scope of the Convention, updating the list of taxes considered and introducing IRAP among them. Article II amends certain general definitions, adapting them to those currently in use. Article III abolishes the tax credit mechanism and eliminates any charges necessary to meet reimbursement requests. Article IV allows for the extension of cooperation between the tax administrations of the two countries, as well as the overcoming of the banking secrecy institute, in accordance with the objectives of combating evasion and adapting to international criteria in this field. Article V provides for the possibility for the Parties to enter into further administrative arrangements for the exchange of information. The draft law consists of three articles which have, respectively, the authorization, enforcement and entry into force of the Protocol. The text in question does not present any incompatibility with Community law and appears to be in line with Italy's international obligations. There are no additional charges to be charged to the State budget. The technical report to the measure, moreover, underlines that the Protocol, allowing the emergence of a greater tax base, will ultimately constitute a potential recovery of revenue for the Italian budget, albeit in unquantifiable terms. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have returned after a very important week, please make comments outside the Chamber, as I imagine you have already done. Please, Senator Razzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u7	The Commissions expressed their views on the measure and 5a. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u8	As you are not a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions, I have the floor to speak to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u9	Madam President, I take the floor not so much for the text itself - which, as the senators most familiar with this type of subject will know, is a text that has characteristics, so to speak, "photocopy" in the sense that many agreements that our country has on the subject of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion have a pattern that is repeated - but in order to give political dignity to the understanding that now exists between Rome and Seoul. I would like to say this because the Republic of Korea has become, in recent years, a privileged partner for Italy and the European Union, starting with the political and free trade agreement that Seoul has concluded with the European Union: it has become the most important and broad free trade agreement ever close between the European Union and a third country. We have spent many of our political resources in this effort: I would like to remind you that in 2009 our President of the Republic visited Korea, and how, more recently, in 2012, the President of the Council of the time visited Seoul. I would also remind you that in 2013 there was a meeting between the Korean President and our President-in-Office of the Council, and it is likely and desirable that during this year, at the ASEAN Summit to be held in the Italian Presidency of the European Union, the newly elected Korean President will visit our country, thus crowning a four-year period in which basically every year there has been a visit to the highest level. Keep in mind, colleagues, that in 2014 marks the 130th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Italy and Seoul, and this anniversary will be marked by an important number of bilateral events, which our trade has now substantially reached 10 billion euros, and continues every year with a double digit increase. I would like to say this because there are so many agreements of this sign that we ratify, but this takes place with a country that is becoming a crucial partner in that large emerging market that is Asia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u10	We shall proceed with the examination of the articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1, Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 16:54. (The sitting was suspended at 4.41 p.m. and resumed at 4.54 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I would ask colleagues to take the floor for the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1302 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 1302 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1302
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u13	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I believe that what Mr Razzi has explained to us in his report is sufficiently comprehensive to understand the importance of ratification and therefore also the need to ratify an Act which, basically, prevents six documents from being produced in relation to the tax issue, particularly for companies and citizens operating on two territories: the national one and the Republic of Korea. I think it is unnecessary to refer to the content of the bill of ratification in our examination in an explanation of vote. I shall therefore limit myself to announcing the North League Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u16	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u19	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is aimed at ratifying the 1989 Protocol, which has already been ratified by Law No 199 of 10 February 1992, in order to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion. The measure consists of six amending articles of the Convention. Article I defines the new scope of the Convention by updating the list of taxes covered by the Tax Convention. Article II of the Protocol makes a series of amendments to paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the Convention concerning the definitions of the Parties, Italy and Korea, as well as the bodies responsible for them: the Ministry of Strategies and Finance and our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. The following Article III replaces Article 23 (2) of the Convention on the method of avoiding double taxation. Article IV replaces Article 26 of the Convention, always relating to the exchange of information, and operates an appropriate and very important overcoming of the very important banking secrecy. Article V adds a paragraph referring to a possible administrative agreement, if any, for the implementation of the new Article 26 on the exchange of information. Finally, Article VI sets out the usual formulas for the notification between the Contracting Parties of the completion of the procedures provided for in their national laws for the entry into force of the Agreement and the date of its entry into force. The draft law authorising the ratification and enforcement of the provisions of the Protocol in title consists of only three articles, without any provision for financial cover. That's it. I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u22	Mr Razzi, rapporteur. Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u25	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u28	PETROCELLI (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u29	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u30	Senators and senators, as you know on May 6 the Senator from Cuneo Francesco Mazzola died. We would like to be able to remember that in this House, and I therefore give the floor to Senator Zanda, who has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u31	Madam President, I take the floor to remind you of Senator Franco Mazzola, who died three weeks ago, and that the work of this House prevented us from remembering in good time. Senator Mazzola sat in this House for three legislatures, and before that, since 1972, he has been a Member of Parliament in the Chamber of Deputies. I want to remind him as a Member of Parliament and as a person, having been lucky enough to have met him and to have been his friend. Franco Mazzola was a good, mild, generous man, a very friendly man... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u32	Excuse me, Senator Zanda, but I would ask the House, at least at these times, for special attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u33	ZANDA (PD). Those who met Franco Mazzola certainly appreciated the qualities of generosity, the qualities of spirit and the warmth with which he knew how to cultivate his personal friendships. I met him a year ago in his city, in Cuneo, and I could see the beauty of his family. That's how people judge themselves. We, in Parliament, are accustomed to more arid judgments, which only look at parliamentary activity. I think we should instead devote ourselves more to getting to know each other as people. Franco Mazzola was a man of government and a man of parliament. In Parliament he was an experienced, assiduous Member of Parliament, as a man of government he was eminently a Democrat. I would like to remind you of this in your parliamentary work by talking a little bit about us, Mr President. Members of Parliament, as I have known them, are divided, among many things, into two main categories: there are parliamentarians who, once elected, forget the territory that has expressed them, forget who voted them, and there are parliamentarians who even once elected, once they have arrived in Parliament, keep their relationship with their voters intact, defend them, represent them, feel their needs and bring their demands to Parliament. Franco Mazzola, for those who have known him and for those who have seen him operating in his territory, belongs to this second category: he was a full parliamentarians, a parliamentarians who represented his fellow citizens at every moment of his parliamentary life. We also remember this because, in his positions as a government and in his political activity, he weighed heavily in his heart the kidnapping, disappearance and murder of Mr Moro. He has also been attributed a book that has reconstructed, in a version that he himself declared imaginative, completely far from the real facts, the phases of the seizure and its responsibilities. I would like to remind you of this in this House today because we will vote in this House tomorrow for the establishment of a new Commission of Inquiry into the case of the kidnapping and killing of Mr Moro. Franco Mazzola, also in this, showed a great sensitivity, a great attention; he showed that he had a memory, a sensitivity for what perhaps was the most terrible moment in the history of Italy after the war. There is one last question for which I want to remind you, another moment in Franco Mazzola's life for which he must be remembered. Franco Mazzola, in the early 1990s, was accused of violating the law on the financing of parties; a criminal offence of a political nature, a crime that in those years was considered very serious. Franco Mazzola was a member of the Junta of Elections and Immunity, he was parliamentary and asked the Senate of the Republic to grant permission to proceed with him in order to defend himself in the trial and at the same time resigned as member of the Junta. Of course, he was an honest person, a mirrored person. In 1993 his trial was celebrated and Franco Mazzola was acquitted with a full formula. This is another example, another form of witnessing to a way of doing politics that I believe should serve as a witness to us. It is one of the many reasons why today we must remember it, of course with affection, with friendship, but also with great honor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u36	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I too would like to join in the condolences expressed by President Zanda because not a few personal reasons, at a very difficult stage of profound change in the political life of our country, led me to know, to attend and to be able to enjoy the closeness of Franco Mazzola at that stage in the early 1990s when a political experience, the one linked to Christian Democracy, ended. Together we questioned what the future path could be (I had just been elected mayor of Biella, he was of Cuneo), in what was a bit the diaspora that looked at the construction of a reformist force, but that at the same time was consistent with the values of a liberal Catholicism that he had lived intensely in his province. We wondered what the future of a common political experience might be, and I must say that I, who was then young and quite inexperienced in moving into the regional policy of a difficult region like Piedmont, found much comfort in his thought, his enlightenment and his coherence. I want to remind him thus, as a person deeply linked to his land, where the culture of a reformist liberalism son of Giolitti and Einaudi crossed very well with the sensitivity of a social Christianity, clearly alternative to what was the culture of the left, but equally sensitive to the reasons of the last. A land that has seen great figures that is superfluous to remember today, but that certainly inspired the thought and action of Franco Mazzola. I believe that Franco Mazzola has always remained coherently linked to that ideal system, and also in the discreet, private talks he had with many of us, even in the successive phases, of change and evolution, of Italian politics, not always sharing the passages that we have lived, he was always very careful, suggesting those that could also be positions of contrast and contradiction, to highlight the difficulties of a path. I really want to remember the man and the lucidity of a person who has always had the need to have a great secular, popular party, of Christian inspiration, anchored to a reformist vision and, at the same time, in the fullness of the assumption of personal responsibility as a guiding criterion also of political choices. For the Piedmontese culture of the province of Cuneo, of that cultural line that today does not have true representations in the civil, political and cultural society of Piedmont, I want to remember it as a source of inspiration for many of us. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u39	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, as we have now recalled, Franco Mazzola, as a Member of Parliament and not only, since he was a student, when he graduated with a degree thesis on President Giolitti, has always been linked to a strategic territory in the history of Italy: the province of Cuneo, the Grand Province, the one that had long as its president the President of the Council Giolitti, and it is right, as has been said, to include Mazzola among the representatives of a true and serious liberal Catholicism. His older brothers from this point of view were Adolfo Sarti and then, in Parliament, Francesco Cossiga, just in the wake of the great friendship that tied Sarti to Cossiga. With Cossiga there were also misunderstandings determined by intemperances of character of President Cossiga, and certainly not by the Adamantina figure of Franco Mazzola: a sharp and Adamentina figure not only because he was acquitted, in 1993, by the hypothesis that he had violated the legislation on the public financing of the parties, but also because his trust in Italian democracy and his attachment to it had been the same of the Giolitti tradition, if Senator Susta allows me to correct it, rather than that of Einaudiana. Franco Mazzola loved to call himself a liberal, not just a liberal, and he did not love, in the small-great history of Piedmont, the somewhat petty polemic that had sometimes opposed the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) Einaudi, and even more the director of the time, Luigi Albertini, to the figure of Giovanni Giolitti. Then in democracy that organizes the natural place for Mazzola had been in Christian Democracy, in this great liberal mass party, as he intended. In this spirit he would also follow Martinazzoli in what for men like Mazzola was to be only a change of denomination appropriate to those who had been the merits of that party in the history of Italy. In the name of these merits, in Senate Franco Mazzola was an excellent senator, several times rapporteur of important bills of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Above all, with great firmness, even when he no longer sat in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity, he always wanted to defend in the Chamber, with precise and precise interventions, the honour, good repute and respectability of Severino Citalisti, a liberal Catholic, a Christian Democrat of the Lombard valley. Franco Mazzola never had exclusivism of a localistic type, those sometimes called vulgarly "einaudiani": he remained a Jelittian, faithful to his party, faithful to his parliamentary history, faithful to a political identity that from the province of Cuneo had known how to love Italy with the same patriotism of his ideal president, Giovanni Giolitti. [[Applause from the NCD and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u42	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to speak in a few words, partly because I recall the sobriety of Senator Franco Mazzola, the condolences expressed to his family by Senator Zanda and other colleagues. I want to remember an anecdote. I didn't get to know Senator Mazzola personally, but I know that he held the post of Deputy Undersecretary of Services during one of the Fanfane Governments. I am told from many quarters of his seriousness and of his way of dealing with very delicate events. He also followed the Moro question, and the book "The Days of the Flood" testifies to his vision of those facts. The lawyer and colleague Senator Franco Mazzola has done in that area a work that is still remembered today for these characteristics. So it is with these few words and, as he used to say, with no more words than the extremely necessary ones, that I believe that the whole House must associate itself with the mourning of the family members for the disappearance of Senator Mazzola. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u45	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of my Group I join in the mourning for the disappearance of Senator Mazzola, who came from my region, from the province of Cuneo. In his political career he was a Member of Parliament for six legislatures, three as a Member and three as a Senator, and several times as Undersecretary. A man born of what we today call the Prima Repubblica, in which he has done a great job, which must be valued. I appreciate that it was President Zanda who started this brief commemoration, because beyond belongings, beyond the political evolution that has existed since then, I believe that Mazzola was one of those many men who in the past has worked to make it work better, according to his concepts and according to his culture, political and general, our Republic, which at the time had certain rules, that must be looked at with respect; he has worked to make the institutions work, with collaborations even very difficult, in very difficult years at national and international level. Assistant to Senator Mazzola for a certain period was the famous Dr. Cencelli, author of the famous manual that represented the translation, in proportional terms, of that proportionality that marked the entire so-called First Republic, with a sense of balance and of the fruits, that we can certainly look with critical eye in certain aspects today, but that certainly, have assured a continuity and certainty that coincided with a period also very positive for the economy of our country and for the economy of the province of Cuneo and Piedmont. I therefore believe that we must express our gratitude for the contribution made by our colleague Franco Mazzola. While we are aware that politics, the whole of Italy, has evolved since then, we must not fail to give the right weight and the right homage to the great work done. Well, Senator Zanda remembered that the charges against him fell in court. It is good to remember this today, since the final aspect is the most important element, namely that no evidence was found against it and that it was completely cleared of the accusations that had been made. Certainly, at the time they caused much more stir to the accusations than absolution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u46	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands, and with her, the whole House, observing a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u47	The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, approved changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 12 June. In the light of the progress of the work of the Commissions, the examination of the Decree-Law on competitiveness and social justice will begin in the Chamber starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 3 June; that of the draft law on anti-corruption will take place in the week from 10 to 12 June. The draft law for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the killing of Aldo Moro and Gift Day, the discussion of motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic consular network, as well as - for next week - the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday, 4 June, remain confirmed for this week. In the afternoon session of Thursday, 29 May, the motion, tabled by Senator Angioni, on the situation of the Alcoa, and the motion, presented by Senator Uras, on the employment crisis of the Sulcis-Iglesiente, will also be examined. The afternoon session on Thursday 5 June will take place with the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities. In addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished arguments and the examination of the draft law in the matter of anti-corruption, the schedule of the week from 10 to 12 June provides for the discussion of the decree-law to extend the administrative managements of public works and the motions on the operation Mare Nostrum. At the opening of the afternoon session on Tuesday, June 10 will commemorate the figure of Giacomo Matteotti on the ninetieth anniversary of his assassination.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u48	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of the Assembly until 12 June 2014: [[Tuesday, May 27 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Ratifications of international agreements - Drawing of law n. 1402 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry on the killing of Aldo Moro (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1176 - Establishment of the Gift Day - Motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic consular network - Motion n. 259, Angioni, on the situation of the Alcoa - Motion n. 251, Uras, on the employment crisis of the Sulcis-Iglesient Wednesday, 28 " ant. h. 9.30-13.30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 29 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 29 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, June 3, pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1465 - Decree-Law No 66, competitiveness and social justice (expires on 23 June) - Vote for the election of a Senator Secretary (Vote by secret ballot with the system of open ballot boxes) (Wednesday 4, ant.) (*) Wednesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Decree No 1465 (Law No 66, competitiveness and social justice) will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. (*) The call for a secret ballot will be made by ballot at the beginning of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 4 June. The ballot boxes will then remain open until 12 noon. [[Tuesday, June 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 1479 - Decree-Law n. 73, extension of administration of public works commissioners (final vote by 11 June) (Scade 11 July) - Drawings of law n. 19, 657, 711, 846, 847, 851 and 868 - Anticorruption - Motions on operation Mare Nostrum Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 12 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1479 (Decree-Law No 73, extension of the Commission's administration of public works) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 5 June. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 19 and related (Anti-corruption) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1465 (Decree-Law No 66, competitiveness and social justice) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1479 (Decree-Law No 73, extension of administration of public works) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1219. The rapporteur, Senator De Pietro, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u50	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is called upon to examine the draft law authorising the ratification and enforcement of the Cooperation Agreement between Italy and Estonia on the fight against organised crime, terrorism and illicit drug trafficking, signed in the capital of the Baltic State in September 2009. The Agreement aims to strengthen, in accordance with their national laws and international agreements signed by the two countries, the cooperation between Italy and Estonia in the fight against transnational crime and terrorism. The communication, and in particular the exchange of information, including sensitive information, as well as the sharing of experience and knowledge in the fight against crime in all its various forms, is at the heart of the legislation in question. The criminal cases covered by this Agreement constitute a serious threat which goes far beyond national borders. An effective and long-term response cannot therefore be without strengthening cooperation with other institutional partners with which to develop transnational synergies. In particular, bearing in mind the regional context, this type of agreement, in addition to being harmoniously integrated into the national legislative framework, is also a significant part of the implementation of the strategic priorities of the work of the last European Defence Council, held in December 2013, during which the importance of providing ever greater support to cooperative approaches between Member States was highlighted. The Agreement consists of a preamble and 16 articles and is based on a constant exchange of information between the competent authorities of the two countries. In the preamble, the Agreement recalls Resolution No 45/123 of 14 December 1990 of the UN General Assembly on international cooperation in the fight against organised crime, as well as the Convention against transnational organised crime and against illicit drug trafficking. Article 1 provides that the Parties shall undertake all activities aimed at intensifying joint efforts to combat organised crime, terrorism and drug trafficking, with regular consultations between the representatives of the Ministries of the Interior of the two countries and identifying the authorities responsible for the implementation of the Agreement in a timely manner. The subsequent articles provide for communication procedures for the rapid exchange of information, including through liaison officers and telematic links, which can promote investigation procedures on activities related to organised crime and the prevention of terrorist acts and which undertake to consult with a view to the adoption of common positions and concerted actions in international fora where issues relating to organised crime are discussed. Article 5 identifies how to combat terrorism, consisting of the exchange of information, data and experience on the subject, and the constant and mutual updating of their knowledge of threats, as well as the techniques and organisational structures responsible for law enforcement, including the planning of joint training courses. Article 6 specifies that bilateral cooperation should also include the search for persons prosecuted for a crime or sought for the execution of a penalty or security measure. In accordance with Article 7, cooperation in the fight against organised crime should include the constant and reciprocal updating of the threats it poses and the techniques to combat it, including through the exchange of experts and the sharing of analyses and experiences, with explicit reference to the management of migratory flows and the carrying out of joint training courses. Among the illegal activities of organised crime which are the subject of cooperation, Article 7 also identifies illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, induction into prostitution, illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition and explosives, strategic and nuclear material, money laundering, and forgery of documents, money and values. Article 8 lays down provisions on cooperation in the fight against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, explicitly referring, for the definition of such substances, to the existing United Nations Conventions on the subject. Articles 9, 10 and 11 respectively provide that any request for information must contain a brief description of the elements justifying it, that adequate protection of the sensitive data exchanged must be ensured and that, finally, refusal to cooperate, even partial, is permitted where the requests may be liable to undermine the sovereignty and security of the State of the requested Contracting Party or other primary state interests. The Agreement also provides that within 30 days of entry into force, the Parties shall communicate the names of their national contact points, that any disputes concerning interpretative aspects and the correct application of the text shall be resolved through diplomatic channels, that the rules contained therein shall not affect the rights and obligations arising from other Agreements already entered into. Finally, the last provisions identify in English the language to be used for the implementation of the Agreement, and lay down the procedures for making, in agreement, any amendments to the text, the arrangements for entry into force, and the possibility of withdrawal, to be communicated to the other Party at least six months earlier. The draft law ratifying the Agreement in turn consists of four articles which relate respectively to the authorisation of ratification, order of implementation, financial coverage of the measure and its entry into force. As far as coverage is concerned, the financial costs resulting from the implementation of the Agreement are estimated at around EUR 120,000 per year, starting in 2014. In its opinion, the Budgetary Committee gave guidance to specify the years of implementation of the measure in question. This opinion was accepted in the form of an amendment by the Foreign Commission. The Constitutional Affairs and Justice Committees also expressed their views on the measure without prejudicing it. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u52	Madam President, the 3rd Commission has done an important job on this measure. After the exhaustive report by Senator De Pietro, I would just like to point out that the Agreement addresses very sensitive issues, of interest to both countries but which certainly have a much wider value and are included in bilateral agreements with other countries, and should perhaps be the subject of multilateral interventions. In fact, I believe that on these issues we certainly need a broader forum in which to confront ourselves and in which to have a sharing of information, which is always useful and valuable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u53	Madam President, I would like to take up two points made by Senator De Pietro and Senator Stucchi. The examination of this measure was suspended in the Commission for the change of government at the beginning of this year. As you will have understood, the core is a structured exchange, both telematic and physical, with the exchange of liaison officers between the two countries. As Senator Stucchi said, the text is part of a plot of reports for which the European Union and other multilateral instruments enable us to face the challenges of crime which has become increasingly less national and more transnational, but which need, at the same time, a dense network of bilateral agreements. From this point of view, as already in the previous Agreement, this Agreement with the Republic of Estonia also has a characteristic framework that we repeat in many of the bilateral agreements that we do not only with countries that make up the European Union, but also with third countries. I recommend, when approving the measure, the urgency of this resolution, because the agreement was signed in 2009, and so it has already been five years since we made this commitment. I would therefore like to thank the House for its attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u54	We shall proceed with the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1219 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1219 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1219 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1219
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u57	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the North League, highlighting only one aspect, in order to increase interest in the content of this measure, compared to what Vice-Minister Pistelli said. It is important to address this issue also from the multilateral point of view. In fact, casually, we are talking about an Agreement signed with Estonia in Tallinn, where for other issues, especially as regards cyber-crime and cyber-terrorism, there is an important seat of an important institution that allows many countries to collaborate to achieve excellent results. That could therefore be a model to follow - in the non-military sphere, of course - in order to achieve the same results.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u60	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, the measure on the agenda takes up the examination already begun on the same Agreement in December 2012, which was not concluded on the basis of the conclusion of the 16th legislature. Its due ratification is therefore an urgent and unavoidable act, which is in the direction of the necessary strengthening of joint efforts between Member States of the European Union in the fight against organised crime in all its manifestations. Everything takes on greater significance, especially when bilateral agreements of this type involve countries of recent accession, where it is necessary and necessary to create the conditions to outline what are considered good European practices in the field of the protection of order and public security, also because of the geopolitical area within which the country is located and the reflections in terms of safety and control of traffic and illegal activities on the regional territory. All this, as the Agreement points out, must be in harmony with the national laws and international agreements which are both recognised. Agreements of this nature are, in my opinion, one of the cornerstones of the structuring of a security policy not only European but largely transnational. We are witnessing a constant globalisation of criminalisation and the strengthening of transnational structures for this kind of activity. As is highlighted by the Agreement, the operational areas of greater attention, and on which cooperation is directed, are industrial forgery, the trafficking of works of art, toxic substances and weapons, which have their own reason to be in a decisive component of internationality. It is evident - and the current situation confirms this - that the interests and initiatives of criminal formations are far beyond national borders and the evolution of criminal enterprise is also significantly affected by geopolitical changes that are affecting some strategic areas for the junction of the traffic of things and people. Therefore, this development must necessarily be matched by an additional eighty transnational developments in defence and control instruments, which can be truly appropriate to the phenomenon to be countered and monitored. Through the establishment of a procedure for the exchange of information between the two countries, it is possible to implement that priority and define a form of real and effective mutual collaboration. It is worth noting that this Agreement has one of the strategic priorities arising from the last European Defence Council in December 2013. The need to create the conditions for European cooperation in the field of security, which is more systematic and long-term, has emerged here, promoting more effective convergence of Member States' programming systems. In view of these aspects and the significant role this Agreement plays in the current security and defence scenario of the European Union, I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u63	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u66	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, considering the comprehensive report by our Senator De Pietro, I am voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u69	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to speak in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u72	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the measure before us today. I would just like to make a comment on what was said earlier by the Deputy Minister on the issue of ratification times. For several years now, Parliament has been able to conclude the examination of the draft ratification laws within a few months, unless the dissolution of the Chambers takes place, as has been the case in this particular circumstance. The real delay in perfecting this very important instrument of our foreign policy, and I would say now of our policy tout court, lies in the length of the concert between the Ministries. Therefore, I would like to urge the Government to seek - I have already urged it so many times from these benches - faster procedures to obtain this concert of the Ministries. In fact, it is embarrassing to ratify today, in 2014, an agreement signed on 8 September 2009. I suggest that we carry out at least one preparatory part before the agreement is concluded, so that we have, at the time of ratification, a faster ministerial concert. This is one of the many minor, but no less important, institutional reforms for the sake of productivity in our democratic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u75	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u76	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1242. The rapporteur, Senator Tronti, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u78	Madam President, this draft law authorizes ratification of Additional Protocol No 2 to the Agreement between Italy and the European University Institute on the seat of the Institute. The bill consists of four articles and aims to give a framework of legal certainty to the extension of the seat of one of the most prestigious university institutions in our country. On the activities of the Institute there is no need to extend, as the skills developed during this period are well known and highly appreciated with regard to conferences and post-graduate training. I would just remind you that the project to create a European Institute, which would complete the European construction in the field of university education, is a long way off. The idea was hypothesized at intergovernmental level since 1955 and was relaunched in 1969 with the decision to establish a European University Institute in Florence. At two successive intergovernmental conferences, at the initiative of the Italian Government, it was decided to reserve the Institute for postgraduate studies, without making it a direct Community institution. The negotiations that followed led to the conclusion of a Convention which made it possible to start the first academic year of the Institute in 1976. Today the Member States of the European University Institute are 19. Since then there has also been an increase in the size of the academic institution, which makes use not only of the structures of Badia Fiesolana, but also of additional properties made available by the Italian State, including the prestigious offices of Villa Schifanoia and Villa Salviati. The Agreement between the Italian Government and the European University Institute, concluded in 1975, was subsequently amended in 1985. In 2007 the Institute proposed to the Italian Government to conclude a new Additional Protocol extending the predictions of the original text to the new locations. The text of the measure under discussion today allows to widen the organizational potential of the European University Institute, further strengthening the relationship of collaboration with our country. The Protocol provides in essence for the extension to all property acquired by the European Institute of the rules on the applicability of Italian laws within the headquarters of the Institute and on the implementation of the principle of inviolability. The Protocol also provides for the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of buildings, in accordance with the provisions of the 1975 Headquarters Agreement, to be borne by Italy and for the President of the Institute to be granted the privileges, immunities, exemptions and facilities granted to Heads of Mission. The coverage of the costs arising from the application of the Protocol is estimated at 30,000 euros per year. The Committee on Education and Policy of the European Union has delivered favourable opinions on this text, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not opposed it. The Budget Committee has expressed itself in a non-obstacle opinion, with a condition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, which has been transposed by the Foreign Affairs Committee. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the draft law by the Assembly, with an amendment concerning Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u79	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u80	Madam President, of course, I would like to thank the rapporteur for explaining the content of the measure and also for highlighting two facts. The first is that, fortunately, the expenses provided for in the Additional Protocol, unlike what happens for example for the Mare Nostrum operation, are divided between the 20 countries that have signed the Protocol and the Convention establishing, and therefore Italy is responsible for only 17.38 percent of the total [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The second fact is perhaps directly related to the first remark, because I would not like the fact that I have agreed to divide the expenses, and therefore to leave to our country only a burden of 17.38 percent, is related to the fact that the total additional expenditure is approximately 30,000 euros. However, this gives rise to further consideration and reflection that we all need to make. Is it logical that a ratification of an additional protocol should be approved by ordinary law, which has content but has an economic impact for the whole country of 30,000 euros per year? These are things that in the municipalities, even small and medium-sized, are approved by resolutions of Junta, if not even by the officials. I understand that ratification of an agreement is involved in this case, but I believe that ordinary laws should adhere to provisions and matters whose approval is far superior. Having said that, I would like to announce the vote of my group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u81	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u82	Madam President, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the seat, reached between the Italian Government and the European University Institute, which is the subject of ratification, in our opinion presents some opacity which I would like to put to the attention of this House. What we would like to highlight in particular is the engraving contained in Article 3 of the Protocol, where it would be required not to specify more specifically the Italian authorities (i.e. with a generic definition) the possibility of extending the discipline in approval to additional buildings, other than those referred to in Article 2 of the Protocol, used by the European University Institute for institutional purposes. The above provision underlies not a few problems which I would like to list, first of all with reference to the term 'Italian Authority', which evokes the right to refer to a lower-ranking body the right to sign international agreements, thus depriving Parliament of the possibility of ratifying any agreements entered into, since the agreements themselves are signed by hierarchically inferior administrations of the State. Therefore, the whole ratification procedure would, in our view, nullify the regulatory scope of the provision contained in Article 3. In secundis there is a further point of thought, concerning the possibility of extending and therefore including in the list \"other real estate", i.e. buildings other than those mentioned in Article 2. It seems to us that such an extension must be assessed and decided on the basis of very limited elements and in any case in full compliance with the criteria of transparency and publicity. As already mentioned, this option would be assigned to not better specified "Italian Authority" and therefore it is two consecutive reflections, aimed in this case to clarify and identify on time which authorities are invested in the aforementioned possibility. To us it would seem appropriate that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, although not invested in deciding, should be required to supervise and give an opinion on possible extensions to further buildings. No one here clearly wants to call into question the high scientific blason and the important presence on the Italian territory of the European University Institute. Italy, as we all know, boasts some excellences of the highest level, in front, however, of the desert to which they sometimes seem suspended. All - I believe - we hope that dialogue between institutions will be tightened and that the mesh of the network that communicates the different subjects will be tightened. A culture as an open space means a trampoline, more than a periscope for research and for the possibility of moving schools, universities, museums and research bodies. In one word: an entire country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u83	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u84	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u85	Mr President, I take the floor to clarify a couple of things. You know that I come from Florence and, therefore, I have a part to play, as well as an institutional part, because I consider the European University Institute to be one of the most beautiful places in the world to study. Those who had had the opportunity to attend or visit him know that I do not lie for excess of love towards the place where I come from. I would point out that the two speeches we have heard in general debate are exactly in contradiction with each other, which is normal in a debate. Senator Stucchi complains that in some way he has to ratify an Additional Protocol to an Agreement, while the Senator of the 5 Star Movement Group (of which - I am sorry - I don't remember the name) sees elements of opacity in the fact that, for subsequent modifications of this type of agreement, one can imagine to refer to other authorities, other than Parliament, the implementation of further improvements of this agreement. I want to stick to the substance, which says that. When the foundation of the European University Institute was imagined, established in 1972 by Italy, Germany, France, Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg, our country probably did not even imagine what would become what we most familiarly call the European University in Florence. The original real estate equipment was the Badia Fiesolana (in via Badia dei Roccettini, a place that dominates Florence on the hills), but the Institute has thus developed, both in terms of countries that have gradually asked to be part of it, and in terms of researchers of absolute excellence who adhere on the basis of national funding to be part of study programs that are clearly post-graduate. As a result, it became necessary to increase in some way the receptive capacity for students who are hosted there, for their studies and for archives and libraries. Simply with a mechanism, let me say, almost of territorial cooperation, a series of complexes - fortunately the city has them - of villas that stand on the hills and that are contermini to this property - villa Schifanoia, villa Salviati, villa The Poggiolo - they have been called to become part of this great complex of studies that (those who deal with European issues will know) hosts every year rich programs of studies and conferences that welcome the highest European personalities and today see the Institute led by Professor Joseph Weiler, who is a talent and most prestigious names in the field of international law. I would add that we have seen our country gradually pushing so that, not only the European University will disintegrate and continue to produce researchers of absolute excellence in the field of legal disciplines, social sciences and economic sciences, but will become one of the places, or the privileged place to do diplomatic training activities for those who tomorrow will serve in the service of external action. Ergo, I believe that for our country it should be reason - but I imagine it is - for pride and pride to be able to host, in an aesthetically very beautiful setting (but it is not only the fact of offering a location and facility) a service of such high quality for the creation of a network of European intelligences that are active under the most diverse disciplines and that are led by a European academic body and not national and that for once sees us not only the object of a competition to take away a valuable function that we host, but the object of attention aimed at further expanding the activities that the European University Institute has carried out for many years. So, for this reason, I believe it is useful to ratify this second Protocol. If I go to the game and the kindness that Senator Tonini has addressed to us just now, here we improve: it is not 2009, but 2011. We are slowly catching up with delays at an ever-increasing pace.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u86	We shall proceed with the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1242 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1242 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1242 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1242
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u89	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, as I said earlier, I am voting in favour of the Northern League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u92	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u95	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, confirming what Senator Montevecchi said, I note that from a purely political point of view there are some not entirely acceptable notes. However, I declare my Group's vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u98	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to speak in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u101	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I too am voting in favour of the PD Group, noting, of course, the extraordinary importance of this institution, which is not only a fundamental instrument for the growth of the European Union, but also a very important instrument for the role of Italy in Europe, which has always given the best of itself through culture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u104	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u107	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, after having already done so in writing, I would like to call for the reply to the 2-00150 question lodged on 9 April of this year, which concerns an issue on which the Minister of Justice should tell us something. This is in fact a matter on which the press has long been entertained, that is, in the hypothesis proposed by the prosecutors at the time of the arrest of the former undersecretary Nicola Cosentino appears, in this assumption, a specific description of the fact that the precautionary measure would have been considered necessary because the former parliamentarians has a network of people, located at the summit posts of political and parliamentary institutions, which have the concrete possibility to do activities on behalf of criminal organizations. As far as I am concerned (I don't know others), I think this conjecture is extremely damaging, because of the two of them: or we are reckless, so unknowingly we end up with favoring not knowing who or what, or we are accomplices to this alleged activity of support to the organized underworld. It would therefore be most appropriate for the Minister of Justice, as I call for in this questioning, to respond to a conjecture in this House, even though it is made by prosecutors, which is very serious for members of the Italian Parliament. I should like to inform you that, as I consider this request to be unsuccessful, I will move to a form of protest to protect my goodness, and that of the Members of Parliament and of the Senate itself, by means of the hunger strike.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u108	I hope, Senator D'Anna, you don't have to get to that point. Anyway, I'm going to urge the interrogation to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-248.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 28 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.07 a.m.
