ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,11 hours) begins. Colleagues, I am obliged to warn you that the Conference of Leaders has not yet finished its work, so I am suspending the sitting, partly because some members of the Conference of Leaders are included in the agenda. The sitting will resume at 4.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.12 a.m. and resumed at 16.49 a.m.) 16.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u8	Let's resume our work. The Conference of the Leaders has divided the times between the Groups for the discussion of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, providing the final vote for 8 August for a total of 115 hours, divided as follows: Presidency, rapporteurs and government 8 hours; voting 80 hours; Groups 20 hours. Democratic Party 4 hours and 24 minutes, Italy Force 2 hours and 50 minutes, 5 Star Movement 2 hours and 15 minutes [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] , New Centerright 2 hours, Mixed 1 hour and 45 minutes, North League and Autonomous 1 hour and 28 minutes, For Autonomies 1 hour and 22 minutes, Great Autonomouss and Liberty 1 hour and 22 minutes, For Italy 1 hour and 19 minutes, Civic Choice for Italy 1 hour and 13 minutes. SANTANGELO (M5S). The rush will end. CRIMI (M5S). This is a trap. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Five hours were also allocated for dissenting interventions, distributed proportionally among the Groups: Democratic Party 1 hour and 6 minutes, Forza Italia 43 minutes, 5 Star Movement 34 minutes [[Protests from the M5S Group]] , New Centerright 30 minutes, Mixed 26 minutes, North League and Autonomous 22 minutes, For the Autonomous 21 minutes, Great autonomy and freedom 21 minutes, For Italy 20 minutes, Civic Choice for Italy 18 minutes. There were also two hours for the final explanations of vote. Finally, the allocation of time for the three decrees-laws to examine the Senate was redefined at second reading for a total of 20 hours. [[Protests from M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL groups.]] MORONESE (M5S). The Constitution under your feet!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u11	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, apart from the fact that in the reading of the allocation of time, perhaps there is something you need to check, because the timing of the Mixed Group has not been allocated, or you have forgotten them. Having said that, I believe that the House has every right to have a calm reflection on what has happened. I do not think we can continue to read from the newspapers the decision of the majority of the Leaders. Mr President, the convening of the Conference of Leaders was requested this morning by President Zanda and others - inter alia, with regard to obstruction, interrupting the votes which were taking place in a calm and orderly manner. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] , while discussing the substance of some important amendments from the political point of view and some of the main issues of the proposed constitutional reform - to force the hand and contingent times; and I simply use euphemism because it is clear to everyone that you are trying to apply what is inapplicable for a constitutional revision procedure [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and the Senators D'Anna and Gambaro]] Someone, in fact, having decided, with tricks and tricks, to present a calendar until August 8, has also decided to introduce in a surreptitious and cowardly way, I use exactly this word, what in jargon is considered the trap. I say that we have done - I mean here in this House - all our efforts. We have met with the League Group, the 5 Star Movement Group and other senators to offer a proposal that would come into effect and finally give answers to this House, not only to these Groups, but to this House. We have renewed our proposal to the group leaders, that is, to ensure that the majority and the government have clear answers on certain points that are fundamental to us. Mr President, first of all we want to know, and together with us, the citizens want to know, whether they must be totally expropriated of their sacrosanct right to elect Members or senators and whether we are moving towards a system in which direct elections are no longer planned or in which universal suffrage is co-arted, so that we are destined to only have nominations. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-MovX Groups]] This is an issue on which we have offered all our proposals. We have posed serious problems, saying that the crisis of democracy, the crisis of confidence of the citizens must be answered with more democracy and we have found ourselves with the increase to 250,000 of the number of signatures necessary for the laws of popular initiative and for referendums is to 800,000. We have gone astray: with patience we have still tried to exercise the art of mediation and politics. The answer was only the scornful one, not only towards us, but towards this House, the citizens and Parliament, to arrive at the quota. This government, Renzi, doesn't care, so much so that the decree-laws if you do or don't do, if they come or don't arrive, doesn't matter anything. So, the real issues that concern the lives of the citizens of this country don't matter to anyone, just constitutional reform. I want to know if all the unemployed, those who are losing their jobs all the time, we're going to tell them that, to comfort themselves, we're giving them the senate's ridiculousness. That's what you're saying! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] The truth is that you want to hide in the eyes of citizens your inability to face the real problems! People can't take it anymore: young people have no hope, people of my age lose their jobs, they no longer know what to vote for and the government has no other concern. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Senators Santoro and De Pin.]] PUGLIA (M5S). It's a dictatorship. Mr Lezzi (M5S). And the government laughs. SANTANGELO (M5S). You're not gonna laugh anymore! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We're gonna get out of here and we're gonna tell him, you're gonna eat the Senate? What will they have to eat? That's the truth. All this arrogance stems from the fact that you want to hide that the accounts are not as you have told them, that the crisis is profound, that you have been unable to solve a problem. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Gambaro.]] You want to hide that you have to make a heavy additional maneuver! You want to hide the fact that in Europe you have not been able to have an answer, but we can no longer do propaganda! We have to give real answers and the proof is that we wanted to examine the decree-laws; we wanted to deal with the issues that concern the citizens and instead this government just wants to deal with its propaganda. As Renzi made the bet - I don't know with whom - that he was to offer this reform by a certain date, this is the result. [[Comments from the PD Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). The country sold itself. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Then the rights of minorities and individual senators are trampled on and a quota is used to arrive clearly at the so-called trap on the constitutional process. You know, Mr President, that only the ordinary procedure can be used for the constitutional revision, but you, too, have trampled on this, once again, the fundamental principles of serious and democratic confrontation. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senators Gambar, De Pin and Micheloni]] But obviously you have decided that this country may have to close once and for all with the possibility that citizens can say theirs. You no longer want power for the citizens, you only want more power for the powerful and that is the result! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Gambaro and Micheloni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u14	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the calendar, leaving to my Parent Group the analysis of this situation, I dare say, degrading, which will certainly explain better than I do. I would like to make a comment on the timetable, because it states that it will be supplemented by the examination of the internal budget and the Senate's accounts. You, Mr President, have specified in detail all the times devoted to reform and decrees, but I have not understood how much time will be devoted instead to the analysis of the Senate budget. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, excuse me, but the Senate budget is very important, it is where we have to set an example of what we want to do! Unless Renzi considers that by now he has already deleted us and even more we can say ours. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] To make it clear the importance of the budget: this Parliament has set up the Budget Office to examine the state accounts. Allow me, Mr President, I think that all of us senators want to be able to say ours about the Senate budget. In fact, last year, when we analysed it, many agendas were accepted by various senators from different sides because of common sense. The contribution to a correct budget comes from all of us, so Mr President, I would like to propose to the House that we consider, in addition to the time you said, at least half a day for the examination of this measure and not say: we vote on the budget and that is it. We dedicate at least half a day to the accounts which are very important and on which, I repeat, we must set an example. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u15	Senator Comaroli, I would like to remind you that the budget is not yet approved by the Presidency Council: when it is, we will certainly try to find time to be able to approve it naturally in the sovereignty of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u16	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry: it is written in the timetable that will be supplemented by the examination of these measures. However, there is no problem: it is a proposal that our Group is proposing to amend the timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. When do you want to include the budget review on the calendar? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Monday morning, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said it's not approved yet, Senator. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). - Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. There is therefore a proposal for inclusion in the timetable. [[Senator Petrocelli points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u19	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, we have asked for the floor for a while now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, I give priority to the Group Leaders on this amendment proposal. Senator Petrocelli... He's a group leader! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it. SANTANGELO (M5S). Then talk! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u20	But you don't need her.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u21	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, why is it always like this? Senator Romani, I gave you the floor. Your turn will also come, Senator Petrocelli, here anyone can speak. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] When the shift comes. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is with regret that I think we are getting to this point. I listened to Senator De Petris' surgery. Among the many things he said, I think he failed to say one thing: mediation attempts were much more than he said. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Hypocrite! President Senator Jarusso, please don't interrupt. Don't make me take action; your voice is recognized immediately, you can't miss it. Please, Senator Romani. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). We'll listen to you, too. Be patient. We'll give you a chance to talk and listen to you. Senator De Petris, you know that we have tried all morning and all afternoon to find a point of mediation; the precedents have also been mentioned. We had found it unreasonable - as I said publicly - to set off in the morning at 9 a.m. and to end at 24 a.m. every day that God sends to earth, including Saturdays and Sundays. We had tried to imagine a more virtuous path that would allow us to focus on some points. You yourself mentioned, if I recall correctly, Amendment No 1,29, which was the first amendment on which we could finally come up against and debate in depth, forcefully and with deep conviction in relation to one of the underlying issues in this House: the electivity or not of the Senate. The majority would have decided, after a long debate. But at least we would have presented to the Italians a Senate that debates on the fundamental point: we want an elective Senate, we do not want an elective Senate. Immersed, however - let me say this, Senator De Petris - in 8,000 amendments and amendments, all this was not possible. I have asked you and I repeat this here: allow us to address the Italians without regret, without regret of not having had a debate. Let us get to the basic points of this debate and focus on these. The quota already knows how it will end: over 115 hours, 80 are reserved for voting. A useless, incomprehensible and entrepreneurial debate for Italian citizens. And, if you evoke other examples, in 2005 there were 2,000 amendments tabled by the oppositions and also in that forum once said: from 11 to 25 March. The times and all the amendments were respected... SANTANGELO (M5S). Three months! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). There were 24 days of debate in the Chamber, look at the numbers... But we had a lengthy debate in the Commission, which allowed us - and this did not happen on that occasion - to completely transform the basic text presented by the Government in order to arrive at the text that is under discussion in this House today. So in some ways we have replaced - I do not like the word, but I do not get another one - the debate in this House with a debate in the Commission. I renew the wish and the invitation: withdraw the unnecessary amendments. This obstruction is useless, because it does not allow us to arrive at a debate on the points and issues of genuine interest. On many points, for what I saw in the Commission (and you were all witnesses), there was no very serious dissent. The obstruction that is being done in this House today has not been found in the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] So there was a precedent in which we were able to discuss issues, issues and proposals. I believe that an excellent work has been done to transform that basic text, which we ourselves considered unacceptable and unacceptable. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We have a few days. I know that a letter has been sent to the Government: a shopping list has been made, if I understand correctly (I do not know the letter and I do not know its contents). I suppose the shopping list is the traditional one; but in my opinion the shopping list could also be much shorter. We can talk about the electivity or not of the Senate, we can talk about the agreement or not on the monocameral system as defined by the article we are examining in this House, we can better see whether the definition of competences between the State and the regions referred to in Article 117 has reason to exist in the terms in which it was expressed by the Commission (and I believe so). It is true that the tome of the amendments to Articles 3 to 40 is, as a matter of fact, half of the first and second sections, which relate to Article 1 and Article 2. So the size of the amendments also gives a sense of the importance of what we are discussing here. I have not much more to add, Mr President. The timetable had already been defined: the times are what they are; the times, as they are contingent, will not allow us the opportunity to argue, discuss and present to the Italians a Senate that discusses itself as it should. I hope that in these few days that separate us from the moment when the real and authentic debate begins (I imagine Monday afternoon or Tuesday morning next week) there will be time to be more thoughtful, more attentive and - pass me the term - smarter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u24	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March 2013 I entered this House with a simple dream. I wanted to be a part of a normal country. I repeat: a normal country. In recent months I have been experiencing a great hallucination: the dream of living in a normal country is slowly evaporated and I do not consider it acceptable. (Senator Lucidi shows a tablet with the image of the Italian flag). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, please. Senator Petrocelli, I'm sorry to interrupt, but someone in your group has some unplanned behavior. Senator Santangelo can also sit down. Please, Senator Petrocelli, excuse me for interrupting. PETROCELLI (M5S). What we have faced in these days is not a hallucination: it is the reality that awaits the country that will come; a country considerably more authoritarian than what my and the previous generation have ever seen. We are discussing issues which do not have a significant political weight: the amount of amendments tabled, rather than the content of the amendments tabled. At the Conference of Leaders, I asked Senator Zanda: 'Senator Zanda, when you propose a drastic reduction in the amendments to the opposition, against the 7,800 amendments, has in mind an adequate number for which we could proceed in the debate?' Well, Senator Zanda said, "A few hundred." My group has tabled some 200 amendments which - I repeat - are almost all detailed and almost all based on substance. If we were to reduce the number of our amendments to a few hundred requested by the Democratic Party, how many should they be? Forty? To give space, perhaps, with a number logic, to a few thousand presented by SEL, reducing theirs to 150? And the 80 presented by the League reduce them to 15? We are reduced to the market of numbers. Here we no longer have the opportunity to stay and discuss essential issues, without the same issues, much more dangerously, being able to move to the streets of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If this House closes with the real guillotine, presumed or masked, or with the guillotine of quotas, or with the guillotine of harmonization, do not blame this opposition for things for which it is not responsible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There will be a part of the country that will ask the President of the Renzi Council (which, perhaps, must go on holiday somewhere) why a constitutional reform should be reduced in these terms. I remember once again (if it was not clear to the majority senators) that in 2006 the previous reform of Part Two of the Constitution went on not for a few sessions, as in this case, but, at first, for 25 sessions and - then - for another 10, for a total of 35 sessions. I still remember that there were about 2,000 amendments then. Where, then, is the haste to demand harmonisation? Where is the need to get to the wall against the wall by the government and also by the majority and say: do you reduce the amendments or do we have no other proposals to make to you? If we, together with other opposition groups, have long pointed out the great issues on which there is a need to confront, not the people in this House, but the people who consciously want to know what will happen to a Parliament of elected representatives and if it will become a Parliament of nominees, we must also be aware in this case that those who have to decide will be faced with the burden of having to answer to the whole country. Shall we move on, President of the Renzi Council? Do you want to move on? Do you want to set times, ways and limits? Go ahead, President of the Renzi Council. The honeymoon he had with the Italians will soon end, there is no doubt! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u27	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, unfortunately, my consideration is of extreme bitterness because in this blessed affair I feel that I simply lack the constituent spirit. It seems to me that this is what was lacking in the various stages that marked the path; it seems to me that it is missing because we do not take into account the judgments and observations of merit that have been made, not by this or that opposition group, but by all those who feel in their conscience that we are called here to discuss the Constitution, that is, principles, and not to accept that the principles are being welcomed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of all this, I mean, I think we're carrying a huge wound today. Before we go any further, even before it happens that, taken perhaps by civil passion, someone says or does things that are not thoughtful, in the face of a decision by the majority group leaders that, in my opinion, remains not sufficiently thought out, I think that perhaps it would be more intelligent, more useful, more productive and even more of an example, as far as we believe in democracy and the Constitution, to withdraw from this House in order to prevent a failed confrontation from becoming an open conflict that would compromise the spirit of our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group, Misto-SEL and the Senators D'Anna and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u30	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will try to be as quiet as possible in a situation that is quite embarrassing for our country. I would like to address all those colleagues who are not lucky enough to attend the Conference of Leaders and perhaps hear from their Presidents and their Leaders what happened, when they say: 'We made proposals, we asked minorities to make proposals, we made ourselves available.' I hear words that really make me shudder. True, they did, but we, and not us in the sense of North League and Autonomous Groups, 5 Star and Mixed-SEL Movement, speak of us senators, have presented an alternative proposal; we have put on the table of the Government a constructive alternative proposal. Perhaps this has not been told to you by your Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. We said: "We, the proposals we have already made, written them, not the list of expenditure, as some people claim in an ironic and vulgar way. We have made concrete proposals, alternatives - it is true - to that of the Government and part of the majority. We have said: evaluate the proposals, give us answers and then we withdraw the amendments. That's the way it's gonna go. Those amendments are proposals, as I said yesterday. No, you don't, colleagues. We have presented those proposals to Mr Renzi, to the majority group leaders and to the Minister for a long time, and the answers have never arrived: never come, dear colleague to point me out with that hand. Unfortunately - I repeat - those proposals are not the list of expenditure. I'm not the shopping list! We, colleagues, have made a proposal, following what happened at the Conference of Leaders, and we are seeing what happened. The debate that has opened at the moment is the answer to our openness to the majority: the leghold trap is the answer to our openness to this majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Petraglia]] Senator Comaroli asked: we ask President Grasso to put the timetable to the vote, even with this proposal. We ask and want - and we want it and we ask it not arrogantly, President - that this House vote on your proposal, that few Group leaders (it is true that theoretically they represent the majority, but then there are various souls) and few senators have decided to vote and impose on this House. We want the senators to have the freedom to decide, with extreme tranquility and serenity, whether to limit the debate on constitutional reforms, as your group leaders have proposed, or not. It is democracy, it is the vote, Mr President, which brings the responsibility of each of us to press a button, either in favour or against. In the face of these proposals, what has been decided? In view of our proposals, what has this majority decided? It has decided to put the leghold trap as a response to concrete proposals. Dear journalists, write this: in the face of concrete proposals, requests and proposals, it has been decided to reason not on the substance, but on the method, not on the content, but on the haste of the President-in-Office of the Council, who are two very different things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] They were in a hurry and the priority was the rush to return to the Chamber as soon as possible and to put this trap; they wanted to put it, they itched their hands and their tongues: this trap had to be proposed. So what's this trap, then? It is not an insult to the League, to the 5 Star Movement, to SEL, but it is an insult to this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups]] It is an insult to the Italians, to those who voted for us; it is an insult - as Senator Divina rightly says - to the Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Taverna]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). Make rag paper of the Constitution! Shame! [[The Divine Senator tears away the volume that contains the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u31	Divine Senator, please. I call on the House's assistants to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u32	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Eliminate this shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u33	Divine Senator, I'm calling you back to order. A reminder of the order is recorded in the minutes. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, so he interrupted the intervention of the parent Centinario. Senator Centinario, please continue. TAVERNA (M5S). President, read Article 72 of the Constitution. MORONESE (M5S). Don't laugh, Boschi. Don't laugh. Go outside if you have no respect. SANTANGELO (M5S). Minister Boschi, don't laugh. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, I'll call you back to order. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. Let there be a call to order against Senators Moronese and Santangelo. Senator Santangelo, you already have other experiences. SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at the Minister: he's laughing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, don't offend. Sit down. Senator Centinario, continue. AIROLA (M5S). Who offends us in this House are President Napolitano and the Government. SANTANGELO (M5S). Tell him! Look at the Minister, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, please come in. Senator Centinario, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u34	Mr President, as I said, you are taking the floor of the Italians, you are taking the floor on democracy, and I am ashamed, Mr President, of that colleague, and I am glad to say that he has just left the Chamber after saying that he was urging us to make intelligent proposals. He urged us, Senator Romani, to make intelligent proposals. Something like that is shameful, it's shameful! At this point, ladies and gentlemen, you still have only one vote to save the Constitution: the vote on the calendar. After this, the Northern League Group will go to the President of the Republic, because the President of the Council no longer represents anyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and the Senators Bonfrisco, Pepe and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u37	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to say that I shall vote in favour of the proposal to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u38	Excuse me, I am obliged to interrupt you because the proposal is not to change the timetable, but to specify the date on which the internal budget will be discussed, i.e. Monday, 4 August. The point is already included in the calendar. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u39	That's right. I would like to say that inclusion is necessary in my opinion and also to say that this would give a different tone and a different content to a calendar which, on the other hand, seems stupefying and mortifying to me. In fact, even if it is not specifically illegitimate in the way in which it was formed, in my opinion it has reasons and areas of circumvention. This is because, even if quota is provided for in Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, what is being done today is a surrogate, so the leghold trap is in fact introduced. The constitutional dictation, I have been taught, when it refers to normality does not intend to refer to the type of law, but to the manner in which the law is formed, and therefore when it is in the deliberating or writing session, it is not in the normality of the formation procedure; therefore, as another case, the then President Mancino in this Chamber referred to Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, where, however, with regard to the specific case, it is said, to the subsequent article 85-a, that the provisions referred to in the last period of paragraph 8 of Article 85 do not apply in the discussion of the draft constitutional law and those indicated in Article 24-. We are therefore operating, in this case, a double circumvention, that is to say, we are in fact introducing the so-called system of leghold trap not for a specific provision of the Rules of Procedure, but for a provision of the Rules of Procedure relating to quotas, where then, instead of deciding specifically the date on which the vote is to be taken, a forecast is made so that, if it is not respected, as in the case mentioned in the previous one of 2004, we have been able to vote on 24 and not 25. I told all this to say how, in fact, we found ourselves in a situation in a certain manzonasque way, to be right bugs. We have, that is, searched and found the "grid" that could give us the chance to do what perhaps could not be done. In fact, the way in which we should do more specifically would be a regulatory change, which should be submitted to the House that it should vote in secret, and in this case without any meetings of Junta, details and precedents, because the secret vote is required for the Rules of Procedure. We're not driving the highway as prescribed. We're going through the meeting and also fast and dangerously. We are forcing, we are evading to reach an end that we have already achieved precisely in 2004. However, I would like to remind my colleagues in the opposite part of this House that what was then done in this House was read as: It is an act of real arrogance, of real arrogance that cannot be accepted in any way; it is a totally unreasonable act, in addition to being a disrespectful and irrational act (...). These are the words spoken by the President of the DS-U Group, Senator Angius. In a slightly more compassionate way, President Marino of the Mixed Group said: Mr President, we do not agree with the speeding-up that we believe is inappropriate and absolutely unjustified, which we want to give to the debate on constitutional law (...) and so on. Senator Giaretta said: "That said, I must stress the seriousness of what is happening in the Chamber." You are doing what you tried to oppose in 2004, disavowing your actions, disavowing your convictions, disavowing them as you are always used to doing. In this regard, I would like to read to you something that may affect your conscience. We have prepared for the first time in this House - for the first time since 1953 - after Palm Sunday in 1953, on the Sunday on which what you called the fraud law, a vote on Sunday, was adopted in this House. So, against that vote on Sunday, you beat yourself so much that: The Communist Shepherd, making himself wide between the cast, faced the Christian Democrat Donati. It was the spark. The clerks who were able to separate the contenders were charged. The tumult had become fierce. Negarville, Li Causi, Spano, Montagnini, Ruggeri and Castagno, descended into the hemicycle, clashed with the Christian Democrats. "Li Causi who, jumped on a bench, shouted at him, punctuating the insults: "Carogna! Pig! Pig! You pig! This is what you have done to defend the non-voting and non-meetings on Sundays. On Palm Sunday of 1953 you went to Mass, now there is the Gospel of Matthew and you do not even want to go there. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u42	TAVERNA (M5S). No, I don't have words! ZANDA (PD). Thank you, President... [[Long, ironic applause from Senators Lezzi and Taverna.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). We don't want to hear it anymore!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u43	Senator Lezzi, I'm here to guarantee the right to speak. Mr Lezzi (M5S). That's right! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order. AIROLA (M5S). You guarantee it with the guillotine. Bravo! TAVERNA (M5S). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taverna, I'll call you back to order. My function here is... AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! TAVERNA (M5S). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taverna, I'll call you back to order. Get on the record. Bottic quaestors, please. AIROLA (M5S). Congratulations! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm here to guarantee the right to speak... AIROLA (M5S). The guillotine! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...ensure the right to speak. AIROLA (M5S). You guarantee it with the guillotine! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola... [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola... [[Comments of Senator Airola)...]] Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. Senator Zanda, you can talk. ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, it's really not easy... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Quiet. ZANDA (PD). I apologise to you and to the House, but I do not have the capacity to speak in a Chamber in which this is taking place... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame! ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have great difficulty in speaking... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM M5S BANKS. So do we! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the colleague speak. ZANDA (PD). I've been in the Senate for 11 years, President, and I haven't... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM M5S BANKS. Then go home! ZANDA (PD). Yeah, I'll go home... [[Comments from the M5S Group)...]] I'm sure I'll go home. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't tolerate comments, please. Each Holding Company has the right to speak. ZANDA (PD). I was saying, I never interrupted any of my colleagues talking... [[Comments from the M5S Group)...n]] I've never raised my voice. CASTALDI (M5S). He's an oxymoron! ZANDA (PD). I think that the proper functioning of the constitutional bodies, and Parliament is the first of these bodies, is a value that we must defend with all our strength. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's be clear, if there has to be a comment on every sentence, I won't allow it. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] ZANDA (PD). Mr President, there is very little democracy in these attitudes. There's very little. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests and ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! ZANDA (PD). And I must say that there was no objectivity in the assessment of the circumstances that led to the discussion and decision of the Conference of Leaders. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u44	Senator Lezzi, I've already called you back to order twice. See you next time, you're out of the Chamber. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). We're going out!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u45	Mr President, I will only make two comments because I do not want to help with my speech to maintain a climate that I do not agree with. In his speech, Senator Petrocelli offered - I fear unknowingly - a very serious and very important subject to the decisions taken today by our Conference of Leaders. Senator Petrocelli reminded us that his Group has tabled 200 amendments. I must say that I am very pleased to see that your Group has tabled 200 amendments, because this means that the 5 Star Movement has understood that this debate needed further discussion and discussion. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Their 200 amendments have nothing to do with the 8,000 amendments that have been tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true! ZANDA (PD). Their 200 amendments mean that we, in order to discuss constitutional reform, must be able to do so by weighing the words, not burying ourselves with amendments or secret votes in quantities that have never been in the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] That's what we asked. I have made six appeals seeking a possible and shared solution, asking the Heads of Groups at the Conference, in the House, publicly, to reduce the amendments, in order to be able to discuss the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] That is what we had to do, Mr President, and they kept them until the last moment! [[Live comments from the M5S Group. Live applause from the PD Group]] I didn't want to get to quota! We were not supposed to get to quota, but we could not allow this discussion to end as it is ending! [[Live applause from the PD Group.]] A short time ago, there have been, through the agencies, lewd expressions, which I am ashamed to repeat! [[Extended applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Filthy expressions! That is an insult, not to democracy, but to the people who are suffering right now! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Some Senators of the M5S Group ironically invite the Assembly to applaud. Senator Buccarella raises a sign with the inscription "Applause." Senator Candiani makes the gesture of the horns. Numerous Senators of the PD Group stand up to applaud.]] That is the shame, Mr President! That's the shame! (Loud and prolonged [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to discuss the Constitution and not count the amendments. That is the truth and I rebel against this absence of democracy! (Senator Airola goes down to the center of the hemicycle.) AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please join your seat. Look, it's by the door. Please don't force me to take action. I'm the first one who's sorry. AIROLA (M5S). I was also deplored! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go back to your post as senator, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u48	SACCONI (NCD). We believe that the mathematics of the parliamentary agenda cannot constitute an opinion. [[Liveful and prolonged comments from Senator Lezzi.]] Mr Paglini (M5S). You're the hostage of a convicted man! SACCONI (NCD). We have already repeatedly pointed out that the only way to start constitutional reform concretely is to approve it in the Senate before the summer recess, knowing that in September this same House, like the parliamentary committees, will be engaged with that other part of the institutional agenda, on the reform of the electoral law, and with those economic reforms that have been invoked several times, starting with the necessary examination of the law of stability. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So we could really say that the reform of the Constitution... AIROLA (M5S). He's been in Parliament for 20 years! It's been 20 years! Senator Airola, let Senator Sacconi speak. I'll call you back to order once again. Next time, I think he's experienced. AIROLA (M5S). I'm going to the President of the Republic! SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, on a personal note: I did not enter Parliament twenty years ago, but thirty-five years ago and I am proud of it. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]] So I think that our decision is obliged, because it is the only way - I insist - to start constitutional reform in practice. As we noted at the Conference of Leaders, we have before us a few days, even if the best premises are not being laid for it, so that the discussion on the issues that have been pointed out as sensitive by oppositions can continue. Alongside those themes, for our part, we will report others. In some respects, the issues we are referring to are sometimes opposed to those that have been highlighted today. I am referring, for example, to the possibility of bringing back to the state the energy sector or the large networks, because this is one of the points pointed out at the Conference of Leaders. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] On the contrary, we would like to further strengthen the powers of the State. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] in relation to regional competences which have often proved to be inefficient in the terms in which they were managed. VOICES FROM LN-Aut GROUP BANKS: In certain regions! SACCONI (NCD). Those who say this has happened in certain regions are right: in many regions. Therefore, we should consider how to achieve an accomplished federalism with variable geometry. I would remind my colleagues in the League that we have tried, with good work already in the Parliamentary Commission, to transpose into the Constitutional Charter the fiscal federalism that we wanted together and that, together, we will be able to further consolidate, for example through the Commissariat of the Inefficient Regions. We will be able to discuss all of this precisely on the basis of time spent in the coming weeks, which will necessarily lead each Group to direct its parliamentary commitment on matters to which it itself intends to be given greater attention by the entire Assembly and, in particular, by the Government and by the majority. Therefore, I am convinced that, beyond the legitimate disputes of this moment, we are going to take a decision that will improve the quality of parliamentary work and that it will allow the first approval of the constitutional reform in terms perhaps even better than those made available by the Commission itself. Let's just wish ourselves a good job. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u49	I put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Comaroli to clarify that the internal budget will be discussed on Monday 4 August. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u51	Senator Ciampolillo, the counterproof is under way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u52	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, someone voted instead of Senator Spilabotte, who is absent! [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, we shall close the counter-test vote. It's not approved. I ask the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Petrocelli, to explain to the Presidency what has happened. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, once again the 5 Star Movement is forced to denounce the pianists of the Democratic Party Group, who implement this practice for the diary! To steal money from Italian citizens! And these would like to change the Constitution! Shame! I ask the Presidency to take action against Senator Sonego. This is the umpteenth time this has happened! Even this morning they did it: they vote for a senator who is not there! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, I'm sorry, I gave you the floor. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I got the word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who are you, I'm sorry, taking the floor without anyone giving it to you? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I asked for it and the microphone went off. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm sorry, Senator Ciampollo, I gave the floor to Senator Petrocelli. Calm down. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I'm asking for action against Senator Sonego! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, can you please maintain order in your group?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u53	Mr President, we do not activate the microphones: that of Senator Ciampolillo has activated and it is obvious that the colleague had to explain [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] in a very calm way, as is customary, what happened. Is it possible, Mr President, that at such a delicate time, with such a controversial subject, a Senator of the Democratic Party puts his hand in the voting mechanism of a colleague and votes in her place? Is this the majority party of the Senate of the Republic that has to make constitutional reforms? [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask, with the same calmness as Mr Ciampolillo, that a serious and detailed measure be taken against Mr Sonego.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u54	Colleagues, what is happening is in the acts and will be submitted to the Presidency Council. I recall that it was not a vote, which took place by show of hands, but a counter-test, which, among other things, has no effect on the diary, so much so that it is known. [[Vivacious protests by Senators Lezzi and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u55	It may be, Mr President, but I have not mentioned the diary at all. I have just said that it is not a behavior in keeping with a senator of the majority group who intends to change the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I conclude by declaring that the 5 Star Movement Group is also preparing to go to the Quirinale to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u58	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak, at the cost of appearing quite eagerly, in the name of a calm sense which seems to me rather dissipated and negligent in this House. In the face of the impasse that has arisen in the area of constitutional reform, I believe that we all need a greater responsibility and an additional awareness. I think it is a question of getting out of a grip that I find completely paralyzing: on the one hand, the quota of the times, on the other hand, the obstructionism. Well, in line with the line we have pursued, which is aimed at supporting positions of substance without hindering the continuation of the legislative procedure, we would like to have a pause for reflection useful to put open and currently wide-ranging issues on the table. I believe that this can be called the return of politics, the appointment of politics. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC.]] I read the last paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution: The ordinary procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for the constitutional and electoral For those of the legislative delegation, for authorization to ratify international treaties, for the approval of budgets and accounts. There is therefore this constitutional reference in the background, but I do not believe that the keystone of the very serious problem facing us lies in a debate on the regulations. I believe that here too we must try to re-attach a primacy to politics. Therefore, with regard to the issues that are still open, which are grounds for conflict, such as the question of whether or not senators are elected, the issue of immunity, the number of Members of Parliament, the issues relating to referendums or popular initiative laws or those relating to matters of bicameral interest, I think there is only one way out, because I think it is everyone's interest to produce a good law and a law that is most widely shared. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] There are certainly precedents. You see, President, I live with insufferance and suffering the contradictions also of my political part (I repeat, also of my political part), because the center-left rose in the previous legislature when the quota of the times was imposed. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups]] However, I ask everyone to make an effort to find a way out and a reasonable answer (I realize that my voice is dim, that I do not have speakers) so that we can overcome the obstruction, which, together with the elimination of quotas, is the keystone of solving this problem. The keystone is the reactivation of political confrontation; it is the main road, to be pursued with patience, but with equally firm determination, in view of the achievement of an objective which ultimately, in its more general perspective, that is, the overcoming of equal and symmetrical bicameralism, is shared by all. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-MovX and Misto-ILC and Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u59	Senator Corsini, since we should take care of the conversion of decree-laws, there is time for politics to continue to take its course as you wish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u61	You have the right to do so. I would like to make a brief point, because your Group has already spoken on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u62	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for the word you have given me and for the important words you have spoken today in this House: you are here to guarantee the right to speak to each senator, as you mentioned earlier in defence of Senator Zanda, and you have done well. However, with the proposal for a leghold trap that you have represented following the Conference of the Leaders and its outcome, Mr President, you are failing precisely those constitutional guarantees which you, and especially the President of the Republic, are entrusted with in custody. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Having said that, I must say that while we appreciate the good work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteurs, Mr Calderoli and Mr Finocchiaro, we prefer the abolition of the Senate rather than an unconstitutional mess to which we would never want to give our uncritical and unconditional support. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and the Senators D'Anna, Minzolini, Campanella and Mussini]] As you can see, Mr President, in direct discussion, that of the debate in this House, this political majority loses. He loses inexorably, loses the majority that supports the Renzi Government who is obsessed with voting. That is why you need to ban and restrict the vote in this House, to ban and eliminate the vote for Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, GAL and Mixed-MovX Groups]] How long, though, can the Italians be prevented from knowing the truth, Mr President? The truth about the really important things, with this and perhaps before this reform, the truth about the accounts, about the economy, about the work, about Europe, about the life of the Italians, Mr President. This is where I would like to conclude my speech by praying that I will listen carefully and conscientiously to the words and proposals contained in Senator Corsini's speech, because there is probably a solution for a possible positive change in the speedy approval of this reform in accordance with the constitutional principles. It is true that it is not a matter of regulation, even though, Mr Corsini, the Rules of Procedure of the House - and we are also making changes with regard to the House of Members - would call for absolute respect for the debate in this House. But having said that, in the name of that responsibility called so well and without the need to shout, my dear colleague Zanda, from Senator Corsini, I invite the Conference of the Leaders to express, in the name of the whole Assembly, on Monday on this important change, because we must flee from the obstructionism that does not serve the country, as from the leghold traps that do not serve the country and from the limitation to the freedom of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pepe.]] The responsibility then requires everyone to get out of this scheme that contrasts the arrogance of a government and the stubborn defense of a Constitution by those who do not want to sell off their own heritage of democratic values. I rebel, Senator Zanda, to the blindness of a political majority that puts democracy under its feet and tries to pretend and pretend to change to never change! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] It is no coincidence that, in the debate at this sitting, all this is being defended especially by those who have spent almost half of their lives in this Parliament and probably intend to spend another half of them and pretend to change so as not to change anything, Mr President! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Senators Mario Mauro, Maurizio Rossi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u65	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Forgive me if I seem unsubstantiated and ask you for enlightenment but, having contingent or limited to the maximum the timing of the debate, having not, in the state, removed even one of the amendments tabled, having to vote on these amendments and having to make any illustration, if anything else to read the title of the amendment or the number, or we vote on them piecemeal, or, having to vote on them one at a time, you or the other Presidents will not even have time to explain the caption of the measure! [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]] Therefore, I make my own the exhortations of Senator Corsini because this situation is disdainable. I know that you, Mr President, have interceded, with your authority as President of the Senate and second office of the State as well, trying to find a composition, that is to say to select the amendments on a specific subject, to reduce them and to calculate times that do not choke the debate. His attempt, for the truth, remains valid; it has failed because here there are - I say this to Senator Zanda with great respect - the stakes or, better, the Columns of Hercules that the Government and the Prime Minister pose, which put us in a position not to find a solution of common sense. [[Applause from Senator Baptist.]] I am referring to the final date by which the measure must be approved. It escapes me and I believe that, failed the attempt of surreptitious approval in the pre-vacation phase of this reform, the aim of making it pass under silence is now lost, because in fury of calmane, screaming and indignance more or less calm and more or less above the lines, the Italian people understood that we are faced with a bad reformer and an excellent tyrant, in the case of the President of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pin.]] But I do not want to go back to what I have already said in this House. I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, to Senator Zanda, Senator Sacconi and also to the Roman leader, who I did not understand correctly in this matter where he is located. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] You know, we are a party of liberals and it seems that liberalism can very often be combined with individualism, so here every head is a court, as they say from my side. [[Applause from Senator Pepe]] , and I didn't understand Forza Italia in this story where it is placed. Repeat, Mr President, this attempt. There is no point in quoting the times, because it is not the quota of the times that improves the reform. I am also making amends, because I am a signatory to a couple of hundred amendments, which I can safely withdraw, on the condition that I am told what are, without a majority vote, the specific subjects and the specific amendments which are in line with those issues which need to be discussed. Then you'll find the time to discuss. If August 8 becomes August 28th or September 10th... Let us understand (and I appeal to all the good politicians, who as you know have short memories, and to the bad politicians, who have less nerves): this August 8 who said, Nostradamus? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Is there a Vaticanium, does an epochal upheaval of the life of this nation have to happen? Mr President, let the President-in-Office of the Council and also the wishful guest of the Quirinale understand that, with all our modesty, we would like to understand why, you know, we are a minority (or at least we were, unless the Nazarene Pact also provides for these future and progressive events for Forza Italia, I do not know), what is the timing beyond which it is not possible to go. She will remember Camus L'étranger, the foreigner: he was an ataraxic man and could not even feel sorry for his mother's body. But is this Renzi, with respect to a Parliament, to hundreds of parliamentarians, to a basic and priority need for democracy to allow the people to express themselves, a foreigner or a citizen of this nation? That's the question. So I'm available... If Minister Boschi gives me a smile, however: I don't mind, if I have to be guillotined, better that the executioner has such beautiful clothes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Pepe.]] I was saying that I am willing to withdraw my amendments, but in a context in which the redundancy of the amendments is reduced and the debate is not choked. [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u68	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I listened very carefully to my friend and colleague, Senator Corsini, and also to Senator Mario Mauro, as well as to all the others, of course. I must say that there is nothing more wrong with politics than applying the same assessments and considerations to different situations. [[Several Senators of the M5S Group leave the Chamber.]] Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group, since you must go to the Head of State, at least do it with some respect for those who listened to you without absolutely interrupting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u69	Senator Susta, please address the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u70	I pray that the senators who are leaving the Chamber will do so in silence. Sunta (SPI). I said it was wrong to apply concepts that are good in certain situations when they are no longer there. Eight years ago there was a debate on constitutional reform, which we also rejected by referendum. I was not here, but among those who fought against that reform in the streets. The context has completely changed: eight years in which we have shown political inconclusivity. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] All political forces must take responsibility for getting out of the inconsistency we have been in these years. This is the great responsibility that we have before the Italians and, since someone wants to address journalists, the press and television, let's all do it. Let us make it clear that at the moment someone does not want reforms, because we know that if we suspend the process of reforms today we will never resume it. However, we have a historic opportunity to use Parliament's debate to select the topics on which we should be confronted. That is what we asked for for days: the Democratic Party asked for it, we asked for it and all the majority forces. It was a constant appeal to reduce the amendments and to concentrate in this House, after four months of debate and a very broad vote in the Commission, on the amendments that are essential to understanding what is the prevailing direction in Parliament and that we are convinced is also the country's prevailing attitude towards reform. If the answer is only the request to suspend, instead of giving a certain date by which to conclude, this is clearly the will to stop the reasons for the debate and the debate and this is not acceptable by the majority. We must devote these 150 hours that you, Mr President, have shown us today to confront ourselves and to really measure ourselves on the issues that are for the attention of the Italian people and ours, but in assuming a political responsibility to make politics final again and to make it clear that we are able to respond to the void that has been in the past twenty years. This is the subject before us and the reason why we are no longer in the conditions of 2001 and 2005; the reason why the use of parliamentary instruments, which we can consider, if not extreme, certainly very strict, becomes inevitable in the face of an attempt to stop any possibility of change. We are candidates - even in Civic Choice, dear Mario - to demand the reduction of the costs of politics, the differentiation of Parliament's competences, the overcoming of bicameralism and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. This is the lintel of this reform. Then we must defend it and within certain times: one hundred and fifteen hours - I repeat: one hundred and fifteen hours - which come after four months of the Commission and after ten days of debate in this House! Well, I have never been a part of the Italian Parliament, I am as new as many others. However, I have had a long experience in the European Parliament: in two days we have dealt with the Treaty of Lisbon, in two days we have examined fiscal compact, six pack and two pack, everything that is being discussed today when dealing with the major issues of compatibility between Member States, their budget and what is happening in Europe. In no European Parliament is the Constitution partially changed by devoting six months of the main debate to this issue. It's not happening anywhere! I believe, then, that we too must be prepared to discuss the substance, provided that we are allowed to do so, to concentrate on the 200-300 real amendments concerning the text which the Commission has dismissed. [[Comments of Senators Endrizzi and Blund.]] Of course, if we continue to waste time doing obstructionism, even on procedural issues, we are taking time away from the real debate, and that means taking time away from democracy. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] Then (let's say it out of respect for the citizens), this is the moment when we have to show that we want to compare ourselves, make the best use of our time, even divide ourselves, without, however, putting a mortgage on the fact that someone is for democracy and someone else for the authoritarian turn. Here no one is for the authoritarian turning point, but only to make the institutions more effective than the themes and problems of a time that requires urgent answers for the salvation of democracy and not for its sinking. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u73	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I really steal a few seconds from you. I take the invitation that has been addressed to us by my friend and colleague Corsini to give rise to an in-depth supplement. It is not, however, my custom to raise my voice, let alone impose a thought through an offensive language. I thank Senator Corsini because, in the temporal context of a rather agitated phase, he reported a dialectic on the tracks of reflection. I would like to make the request to offer an additional reflection, with the attention of the House, and above all of the opposition, an argument that is the foundation of democracy and that wants a paradigm of balanced rights between them. In one House there are essentially two rights: the right of the majority and the right of the minority or the right of the opposition, whichever is the wish. It is clear that, in the context of a dialectic, both rights must be contested so that there is no upheaval so that the right of the minority or opposition ultimately prevails over the right of the majority. In other words, and in a more medialy understandable form, my reflection is about one aspect. In the context of the first permanent Commission, the subject has been dealt with in depth and, as I said yesterday, with calmness of tone and depth of content. It has come to the House's attention, but it does not seem to me - I put this issue to everyone's attention - that the debate that has characterized the last few days has been really in-depth. It cannot be an in-depth debate when only for three or perhaps four amendments (I have also lost the numbering of them as many as they were: I make a little irony that the good Neapolitan never lacks) has given rise to such a deepening for which it has been two days. Mr President, I have asked myself the following question in a very loyal and sincere way: if these are the times of democracy, is it not that we enter from the times of democracy to the times of inaction, delay and passivity? If we really think we are a nation that is in Europe and represents Europe, perhaps we are out of time with these times. I therefore believe that the need expressed by the Conference of Leaders to arrive, not at a quota of time, but at a reasonable limitation of these times can brilliantly contemper both the paradigm of the democracy of the majority and the paradigm of the democracy of the minority or the opposition. [[Applause from Senator Casini]] I believe that this is a fundamental aspect, otherwise outside, to the citizens, only one image will emerge: that of a screaming and offensive assembly, which uses a language that is not appropriate to a House as noble as that of the Senate. In making my own an expression that was recalled by President Casini yesterday (if I am not mistaken), we are doing this way and with this dialogical typeology it is a great gift, on the one hand, to populism and, on the other, to complete distrust of the institution. I finish my speech with once again a heartfelt invitation from those who occupy for the first time the scranno of this Senate: that especially those who have represented politics for many years are really models and that the neophytes can acquire of the old politics the noblest traits, where dialogue is not overwhelmed, is not verbal violence, is not prevarication, but is construction in tune. Democracy, in fact, is accomplished completely when the paradigm of the rights of the majority combines brilliantly with that of the rights of the minority and vice versa. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity for this reflection. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Lanzillotta. Senators Candiani, Calderoli and De Cristofaro indicate that they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u74	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1567: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 100 of 16 July 2014 introducing urgent measures for the implementation of the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities for enterprises subject to extraordinary commissioning" At yesterday's sitting, the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I am asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Migliavacca, if he intends to intervene. Mr MIGLIAVACCA, draftsman of the opinion. Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u77	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I asked for the floor on the previous subject, and it was clearly not mentioned to you. I would not have intervened if there had not been so many speeches, not always by the Capigroup, so as rapporteur, I believe that some assessments should be made of what happened. I would like to begin by thanking you, Mr President, for the good will you have put in us - and I too have done so - in order to try to achieve a result, but all this runs counter to the logic of common sense: we, in fact, are trampling common sense. We tread common sense when we expect sessions from 9.30 a.m. to 24 p.m., including Saturdays and Sundays. Today the senate doctor told me that he had already had to attend three colleagues who did not feel well; I would like to see Saturday at 23:47, with secret vows and things like that, what will happen. I believe that, if you have to do something, you have to do it well and with a pinch of salt in pumpkin and, proceeding in this way, I am sorry but we are not doing it well. Today's is really a dark moment in parliamentary history. We wanted to impose a quota today, when we know perfectly well that we will resume the reforms on Tuesday morning and not before, because there are two decree-laws; two decree-laws on which there will presumably be as many demands for trust, so surely on Monday we will have a Conference of the Leaders in which to organize our times. There was a legitimate request by the majority for a substantial withdrawal of amendments to the opposition, the opposition put forward a number of points on which it would have needed an opinion from the Government, whether or not they were questionable, and against these replies would have withdrawn the amendments. Why did you not want to wait on Monday, when you could have had answers and therefore in the availability of the possible withdrawal of the amendments and did you wish to make a contingency today? To slap Parliament? [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and the Senators Chiti and Pepe.]] Because that's what it's about. We would not have lost five minutes on Monday to say that there is no possibility of dialogue and that amendments would be withdrawn or maintained on the basis of the answers received from the Government. No, we still gave this pretty signal. I wonder what kind of image citizens get. I hope that few people have followed these images that we are seeing on television, because those who watch television would ask: Is that the Senate? But why hasn't it been abolished before, not now? We're really giving an image of squalor. MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Who's giving it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt, please. I guarantee that those who have the floor will not be interrupted. Please, Senator Marino. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I didn't raise my voice, I didn't scream, and those who say they want to give civilization lessons to others behave exactly opposite to others; and, especially if they are Parent Company or they did, they should know... [[Applause from Senators Barozzino, Candiani, Cervellini and Rizzotti.]] What hurts me and bitters me is that, with this will of majority and opposition, reform is not done. You have put good things to us, Mr President, everything you had to make it clear that in the face of 5,000 votes (because we are talking about this), even if you give one minute for each vote (and let's forget that there are those who ask for the split vote, if one is against the proposal there is the debate whether it is right or not to give it, there is the verification of the quorum before voting for separate parts), with the times you have just given us 80 hours for the votes, on 8 August we do not approve the reform. This is clear for everyone, for a mathematical question, because, as I have already said, someone wants to put two liters of water in a bottle of a liter: they are not there. And if we are here on August 8th to decide what to do, I tell you that that really will be the failure of everything. So, if everyone, opposition and majority, were to reflect further, before Monday evening we will still be able to give answers and take behavior in order to be able to really approve, doing it well, the reform. Otherwise, speaking of my scumbag, it can come out even worse if you insist. I still believe in it, I put mine in it, I collaborated with everyone and I continue to want to pursue this goal; but let us really be in a position to work and work serenely. I do not have the problem of some slippery at 23:58 on a secret vote, but whatever part will be taken away from that time, the final vote will be moved there, because the quota states that for that number of hours we will have to do that. If a few days or a few hours skip, it means going beyond August 8, because the President correctly said: "Previsioning the final vote for August 8," there is no certainty of the vote, because it would not be possible to impose a deadline compared to a constitutional reform. So everyone pays attention to where they're walking, because they're ending up or we're all gonna end up in a big hole. Let's stop before we go inside. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVIIe Group of Senators Bencini and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u78	Senator Calderoli, thank you for your recognition of the efforts we all supported during the day at the Conference of Leaders. I have already hoped, after the intervention of Senator Corsini and his, that we can find some way to continue. We hope that the weekend will bring advice and that we can go on with the decrees-laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u81	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak on this point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to speak on the order of business? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). On the order of business, I would like to add a reflection, if I may, to the one now carried out by Senator Calderoli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator De Cristofaro, I do not want to take the floor, but Senator De Petris has already spoken on this point for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u84	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a vote was taken on the opinion on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 100 of 16 July 2014 laying down urgent measures for the implementation of the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities for enterprises subject to extraordinary commissioning. The Assembly of the Senate is called to rule on the existence or otherwise of the constitutionality of Decree-Law No 100 of 16 July 2014, published in the Official Gazette No 164 of 17 July 2014. This decree, in spite of a generic title referring to measures and activities of environmental and health protection for companies subject to extraordinary commissioning, actually regulates procedures concerning the sole Ilva spa company, on which five decree-laws have already intervened in the past. We have, therefore, a decree to societatem that does not have the astray required by laws or acts having the force of law. Moreover, it poses itself as the umpteenth episode of a sequel of alterations that the Government has made, abusing the decree of urgency and making ridiculous the institutions with what from the legislative point of view seems a soap opera. Preliminarily it must be noted that the decree-law under consideration has been fully transposed, by amendment, within Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 (the so-called Decree-Law competitiveness). It is, therefore, in the presence of an inappropriate pollution of the process of conversion into law of decrees, through the interweaving between the power of amendment, recognized to the rapporteurs and the Government, and the legislative power, temporarily recognized to the Government by Article 77 of the Constitution. This way of proceeding, in addition to creating confusion in the work of the Chambers, has a negative impact on the delicate profiles of the Government-Parliament relationship and the majority opposition. I note, however, that I am speaking in general disinterest. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm listening to you, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Thank you for that, but I didn't mean you. However, I do not see Senator Migliavacca here as an extensor of the opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There he is, look, Senator Migliavacca is in the Chamber. [[Senator Migliavacca makes a nod from his position among the PD Group benches.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Thank you, partner. As well as from the point of view of the alteration of the balance of relations - I repeat - between the Government and Parliament, the measure in question is also likely to have a constitutional vulnus. In particular, it brings changes to certain forecasts contained in Decree-Law No 61 of 4 June 2013, converted, with amendments, by Law No 89 of 3 August 2013, in order to simplify the process for the implementation of the interventions foreseen in the environmental plan, modifying the timing of implementation of the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation and the so-called environmental plan of Ilva SpA, which is further deferred. And to think that the premises of Decree-Law 207 of 2012 (the second Decree-Law Ilva) referred to the extraordinary necessity and urgency to issue provisions aimed at ensuring the full implementation of the requirements of the AIA for the immediate removal of the existing critical conditions that can affect health, achieving the substantial reduction of polluting emissions. This immediacy is now reversed with an extension of time. I believe that we must be careful because here, really, the ridiculous is overcome and we enter into tragedy, perhaps even in tragedy, because we must not forget to Taranto what happened and what happened. In order to provide for such an extension, however, the fair concentration of interests required by established constitutional jurisprudence is not carried out and the principle of company continuity prevails over those of environmental and health protection which can be referred to in Articles 9 and 32 of the Constitution. As a result, once again in the case of Ilva, the continuity of production is privileged, albeit conditional on the implementation of environmental requirements, compared to the immediate cessation of pollutant emissions. To this end, it should be recalled that the protection of health is an interest of the community, primary and absolute law, which is also fully active in relations between individuals (ex plurimis judgment No 88 of 1979, No 184 of 1986, No 559 of 1997, No 202 of 1991). The provision in question, in conjunction with the numerous decree-laws, which preceded it, therefore constitutes an extraordinary body of legislation of an administrative nature that risks altering the essential structure of the current legislation, of Community origin, unilaterally eliminating all those elements that would contribute to taking into account the effects that certain productive activities, put in place in violation of the law, can produce on health and ecosystems. They are thus repeated, i.e. prolonged regressive procedures on environmental and health protection, transparency of procedures, timing of implementation... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I believe that there really is no respect here. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u85	If you wish, you can deliver the written text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u86	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I will hand it over and ask you to attach it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u87	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. We shall now proceed to the vote. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) (Many senators rush into the Chamber. [[Senator Endrizzi's protests]] Everyone vote in their place, please, don't enter any more cards. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the resolution on the opinion of the first standing Commission pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure concerning draft law No 1567
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u88	I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No. 100. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like you to be pleased to ask for a counterproof. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] The senator asked for this satisfaction: do we not want to give it to him? I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u89	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1541. The rapporteurs, Senators Cucchetti and Marinello, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cucchetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin this speech on the presentation of the work done by the Land Commissions, the environment, environmental goods and industry, trade, tourism in the Senate, on the bill for the conversion of the competitiveness decree, without thanking the Members of Parliament, Mr Battisti and Mr De Salvo, the assistants, secretaries and clerks, who, with commitment, intelligence and, I add, with so much effort, helped the Commission to complete the examination of the measure, which the House is called upon to discuss today. [[Applause from Senator Berger's PDe Group]] It happens that the staff of the Senate, like the staff of the Chamber, is insolent even by the higher chairs, who should know the quantity and quality of the work that is being done. These words of mine want to be an even insufficient moral compensation for these people, these our collaborators [[Applause from the government benches.]] 18.44 (continued MUCCHETTI). I would also like to thank the ministers Guidi, Galletti and Martina, Deputy Minister De Vincenti and Undersecretary Degani, with the directors of their Ministries and the legislative leaders, and the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Policies Olivero, who followed our work. In short, all those who have accompanied us in this marathon that the debate too much access on the reforms has risked for a moment to render useless, blocking the normal legislative activity. I shall confine myself, in this presentation, to a few points in the decree concerning measures in favour of the business system. Other measures will be dealt with by President Marinello, especially in terms of agriculture and the environment, as well as on the same issues on which I will speak. This decree includes a number of measures aimed at facilitating companies' access to the capital market and less stringent taxation, more geared towards development through tax credit and ACE. But above all, the elements of greater novelty concern the new possibilities open to small and medium-sized enterprises (considered to be up to 300 million turnover and 500 million stock exchange value) to access regulated financial markets, without necessarily having to lose control by the original shareholders, the founders, those who take this decision. Very often it happens that the entry into the stock exchange is restrained by the fear of losing control: well, this measure also introduces in Italy the possibility of having higher voting shares. This is a resource of the European financial markets, and not only of Europe, which was not available in Italy so far. Some large Italian groups (e.g. FIAT) have also taken the registered office outside Italy to take advantage of multiple voting shares. It is therefore wise that the Government has taken this measure but, at the same time, the Commission, meeting the collaboration and fruitful dialectics with the Government, has improved the measure, opening the possibility to adopt this form of risk capital structuring also to companies already listed on the stock exchange, opening a window in 2015 in order to be able to adopt this measure also with the ordinary assembly. The measure also contains important measures in relation to compulsory takeover bids. You know that compulsory takeover bids have recently been regulated in Italy by the single finance text in 1998 (the famous Dragon Act). When the project was fired by the Treasury Ministry (that Treasury Ministry, which had Ciampi as minister and Draghi general manager, was perhaps the best Treasury Ministry to remember for many years in Italy) had foreseen a double threshold for compulsory takeover bid: 30% and, for larger companies, even 15 percent. The purpose of the compulsory takeover bid is to protect the interests of minority shareholders in the belief that this will make it easier for companies, for example, to launch capital increases with which to support their own development. Well, we have restored that inspiration of Ciampi and Dragons in new forms. You will remember that we tried to do so last autumn in the wake of the emotion of the Telecom case, but not for the Telecom case as such. Now we are here to propose it again, confirming that we had in mind a reformist project for the Italian financial markets. Another point that we have addressed was the improvement of the Ilva decree, which the Government presented and then translated into an amendment to the bill, which we consider to be ours because we have worked very hard on it. We have introduced two amendments that allow the strengthening of those responsible for the environmental recovery of Ilva, and this is not a marginal fact but the reason why the decree was made: to protect the Taranto environment and, at the same time, to allow the continuation of production activity, the improvement of the same and the prospects of the company. To this end we have facilitated the possibility of obtaining, by the Commissioner, the money seized from the old shareholders also for other securities. We corrected, specifying them, some characteristics of the pre-existing Ilva decree that, in the light of experience, had proved insufficient for the purpose. Clearly, the two sub-amendments presented by the Environment and Industry Commissions are also a stimulus and a challenge for the Government of the Republic on the great Ilva case. We do not believe that it is wise to bet everything on a future buyer who takes over that company and does what has been difficult to do so far; in the sense that, where a new property is manifested, we would be very happy to welcome it, but we also believe that we must never burn the vessels behind us, and have at our disposal certain financial resources, a financial lung and a subcommissive to the strong environment is the basis for having a minimum of negotiating power: in fact, it is easier to attract capital and professional investors to a company that can demonstrate, denarious to the hand and not words to the hand, that it can have a future than a company that fails to pay the wages of the month in expiration. The government's measure, widening the meshes of the bankruptcy law, leads to pre-deduction financing that is made for the normal round. I think it is good to have other arrows in the quiver too, because only with this instrument the banking system will not finance Ilva for too long, since no banker finances a company that does not have industrial plans for its future. He can do it for a short time, but he can't do it for long. The decree-law that we have dealt with contains two other important industrial points that I would like to mention, not because there are no other important ones, but because of their qualitative interest. Both concern the energy sector. With this decree-law the government intends to make a nice piece of the road to ensure to the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises a cut of the electricity bill of 10 percent. These small and medium-sized enterprises pay an average of 15 billion a year, so a 10% cut requires that a billion and a half be recovered. The decree-law and the announcements that accompanied him tell us that the government goes and will go to "refil" so many different positions that today enjoy some privileged situations to some extent. In this decree-law, in particular, are touched the Ferrovie dello Stato and the producers of renewable sources, in particular of the photovoltaic sector. The State Railways have had a very complex historical relationship (it is not appropriate to remember it, if we will do so later) with ENEL; this relationship has been translated into the right to have energy at cost price, which means an important discount compared to the market price. This discount for many years was a bilateral deal between the Railways and ENEL. For some years it has become a trilateral affair, in the sense that the Railways have retained that treatment, ENEL has taken no longer the cost price, but the market price and the delta has been dumped on the shoulders of electric consumers. The decree-law carries a part of this benefit on the shoulders of the Railways, which, like all companies, over the years will transfer it in the prices of its service to its customers. We have tried to prevent this passage from being too drastic, therefore, in agreement with the Government, we have graduated over time the effect in such a way as to be able to safeguard in particular the sector of the transport goods, which we all hope can take advantage of more and more rail than rubber for obvious environmental reasons. The issue of renewable sources is perhaps, in terms of numbers and figures, the most important aspect of this decree-law. In recent years Italy has made very serious mistakes, whose political responsibility must be distributed a little on the shoulders of all parties. You know that incentives for renewable sources in various types of bills amount to 11 or 12 billion per year for a very long period of time. These incentives are much higher than those given in European countries comparable to ours and have resulted in a significant flow of industrial and financial investment. The Government has set itself the goal of recovering something from the investment flow that has been guaranteed. The aim of the Commission was to safeguard the government's approach, where it could and should be safeguarded, to make an addition to this which can be considered a stick that has raised alarm for its retroactive effects even in the world of foreign investors, to whom we must not have any inferiority complex, because we know that they have come not to risk the neck bone but to make an easy deal. And yet it is good that the reputation of a country that has a widespread public debt on the international markets seeks to safeguard itself. To this end, we have introduced, alongside the sticks, an important carrot, a form of securitisation expressed in its details in the article, which has been studied in such a way that it does not affect public finance. As a precaution, we have said that it will be effective when Eurostat will also give its approval, i.e. only when they become normal. I wanted to remind you of these passages in order to bring out the fruitful relationship between the Parliament institution and the Government of the Republic, to remind those who, outside, think that this House is useless what can be done to improve the work of the Government, with the help of the majority political groups, have made a very significant contribution to it by the PD leaders, but also by the other Groups. I would like to thank even more the members of the opposition, who have found themselves like us working on an omnibus bill that, as a form of legislation, we were deluded had no more popularity among ourselves. We note that this is not the case and with great realism we have tried to make our contribution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u91	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marinello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat the arguments put forward by Mr Mucchetti, but I also feel obliged to thank everyone, to thank my colleagues, both in majority and in opposition, the Government and above all the officials and employees of the Senate who, with a great spirit of sacrifice, have allowed us to work hours and hours, holding numerous sessions (about twenty), evening and night sessions almost without interruption, including some no-stop sessions and this, believe me, sometimes even in conditions of objective difficulty. I absolutely do not want to impel myself in considerations of a different nature, but it is of all evidence that against some prevailing, becero and sometimes squalid, which, by the way, sometimes comes not from the square or from the volcano, but from the highest institutional levels, examples such as this should invite to silence and reflect. Having said that, I would like to make a few comments on the measure under consideration. This is an extremely complex measure, which has rightly been defined by my colleague Mr Cucchetti as almost an omnibus measure, containing three substantive chapters: provisions of agricultural interest, provisions of environmental interest and urgent provisions for businesses, where it was intended to range from banking to financial, from energy to transport. In this sort of pot-pourri of arguments, obviously, the Commissions could do nothing but what they did: listen to several dozen category representatives (the most important categories), dedicating therefore to a full cycle of hearings several sessions, then debate for a long time and work well. The amendments tabled, regardless of those of the Government, the rapporteurs and the sub-amendments, were 1,700. In the end, attention was focused on about 700-800 amendments, which are those that have attracted our capacity and our interest most and, after careful examination, we have come to enrich - I use the term "enrich" - and implement the measure, also trying to correct some points and to change others. In my view, this has produced good work, reaching the adoption of some 150 amendments, some of which were proposed by the rapporteurs, but many tabled by the Parliamentary Groups, both by majority and by opposition. This, in summary, explains the work that has been done. As we go down in particular, this is a measure which contains a series of simplifications in the agricultural field, important signals given to a world that is in particular difficult. I could mention dozens of things, but I would like to mention above all an amendment on simplification consisting of 22 paragraphs, ranging from facilitations and facilitations with regard to the storage of farm petroleum products, the use of agricultural machinery, the abbreviation of pruning cracks (a problem absolutely felt in the Italian fields, not only in agriculture, but also in the management of our great agro-silvo-forestry heritage) and the protection of Made in Italy. Article 4 is dedicated to the protection of an important PDO, the "Mozzarella di bufala bell" (Mozzarella di bufala bell); here too a series of measures have been produced, and it has worked absolutely well. In order to move on to environmental matters, which are more relevant to me (because, as President of the Environment Commission, they are the ones I am most familiar with), I believe that the amendments they apply to new tyres, to cover the costs of managing out-of-use tyres, are extremely important, a number of facilities in order to start a proper recovery. We know that this is a national emergency and that only 65-70 percent of the tyres circulating in our country are started to a legal cycle and like everything else, everything that is outside, contribute - alas - to devastate our territory and even feed criminal circuits. I must also recall a very qualifying point of the Government decree, the point where the commissioners for the hydrogeological emergency were replaced, giving the power of these functions directly in the responsibility of the Presidents of the Regions. We have enriched the issue, because, we have realized that the Presidents of the Regions can guarantee a predominantly political leadership, but it was necessary to identify specific figures; we have identified them, intuiting that it was necessary to use the creation of actuators. I would also like to mention another very important amendment, which guarantees the State Forestry Corps access to sensitive SISTRI data. We know how the SISTRI data are actually managed by a very important body for the ecological protection of our country: the Carabinieri of the NOE, to which our greeting goes and above all our gratitude. But it is quite clear that the Forest Corps of the State, which has worked well in recent years, among other things demonstrating it in some difficult situations such as in the management of the criticality of the land of fires, had to be given not so much recognition, but the possibility of accessing sensitive data, in order to be able to work more for the institutional purpose of the repression of environmental crimes. I also think that the amendment of the rapporteurs 14,100, which corrected a rule of the original decree, contained in Article 14, which allowed the Presidents of the Regions, the Presidents of the Provinces and the mayors, in the face of certain situations and certain critical issues, to enter into the availability, as long as they were seized or confiscated, of strategic installations, taking over the powers, the power of ownership. This seemed to us, or at least seemed to me and Senator Mucchetti, an absolutely dangerous and in some ways questionable drift; then we wanted to better define the scope of the matter, limiting ourselves only to those situations in which extremely serious problems exist and insist, so as to pay attention to them and to initiate sanctioning procedures by Community bodies. This is the case, for example, of the city of Rome and the Lazio Region. In this way it seemed to us to define the scope of the rules better, so as to avoid distorted applications that would obviously not have made sense and that, as far as our sensibilities are concerned, they were also frankly contrary to the constitutionally guaranteed right of ownership. I do not want to talk about Ilva, because my colleague Mr Mucchetti spoke brilliantly about it, but - also here - it must be said that these are the issues that have seen the Environment Commission and the Commission engaged several times in production activities with the need to address three main needs: the overall economic need (not only of the Apulian Region, but also of the steel industry in the country, considering that it is a strategic production) with the necessary protection of other constitutional rights, such as the right to health and the right to the environment. I believe that the work done in the Commission goes all the way towards this significance. In order to get to the conclusions quickly, I believe that the work done so far has been absolutely good. I would like to remind you that the work has also been carried out with a certain patema d'animo, because we are in the last few weeks preceding the summer holidays, but also of institutional jam. The presence of other decree-laws, some even close to the deadline, and this sort of locomotive launched on the subject of constitutional reforms, have created a sort of compulsive rhythm, sometimes even anguish. I believe that, with regard to the conditions given, we have, in the end, managed to do a good job, honouring the institutions and Parliament and, as far as my personal opinion is concerned, serving the country. Now the hope is to ensure that this work is not lost and that it translates into a rapid conversion of the decree-law here in the Senate to give the other Parliamentary Assembly the right amount of time, to be able to develop an investigation in due time and manner. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u93	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u94	Mr President, I must confess that it would be easier for me, and probably even more understandable, to go to the Quirinale with my colleagues, because there are matters that need to be resolved. However, let us think of the citizens of Taranto; the Italians who want more just laws and a Government less prone to the interests of the few. I just read what, perhaps more fully than I, Senator Cioffi would have illustrated to you. I'll just give you a start. I am in no hurry, as you do not have any interest in listening. I'll use my minutes to report this, too. Today we have seen a pianist vote in place of a colleague in a really terrible situation for Italian democracy, both for what was happening and for what is expected in the future. Today's decree-law affects the health of citizens and the environment. It's like we're doing recreation. Well, the Senate Assembly is examining not a decree-law, but two. The unevenness of the text, already found in the examination of the presuppositions referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, was in fact further aggravated following the examination at the Contact Committees through the inclusion, by the rapporteurs and the Government, of further provisions, among which stands out the transposition of an entire decree-law already in force. We know that this is not allowed; this shows that the Government is mocking the Constitution, the principles and the separation of powers. I refer to Decree-Law No. 100 of 16 July 2014, already assigned to the Senate as an autonomous bill no. 1567, which - in spite of a general title referring to environmental and health protection measures and activities for companies subject to extraordinary commission - actually regulates procedures concerning a single company, Ilva SpA, on which five decree-laws have already intervened. I have already expressed the concepts and will summarise the intervention because the text of the question is really long and complex: it is still in the proceedings and can be consulted. I believe, however, that you already know what I am talking about; I think you already know what the violations are. The heterogeneity that characterizes the decree-law in question was already evident in the title, where it was thought to associate the matter of school construction with that of agriculture. It is a choice in perfect harmony with the practice of recent years (we could already talk about a decade), which considers it sufficient to introduce in the title all the subjects dealt with in order to make the text seem homogeneous. We know, however, that the judgment of the Constitutional Court has established that this is not enough; uniformity must be in the text, in the content. The problem of homogeneity is intrinsically linked to that of the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. It is not possible that a fruit salad decreto is considered necessary and urgent. The Constitution provided for the temporary, occasional and exceptional granting of legislative power to the Government for facts of real gravity, not so widespread and frequent. Even the general nature of the preamble, where the extraordinary necessity and urgency of the measures taken is recalled, does not appear to give constitutional coverage to numerous provisions included and, in particular, to Article 10 (8), which deals with the appointment and composition of the Board of Auditors of ISPRA, regulating in particular the appointment of a general executive of the Ministry of the Environment. Therefore, the appointment of an executive becomes of exceptional gravity and urgency for the nation. Article 20 provides that the role and functions of the body of a private-law foundation, made up of organisations representing the main categories of stakeholders involved in accounting matters, should be raised to a normative level by giving the foundation the power to issue national accounting standards, to provide support for the work of Parliament and the Government, to participate in the process of drawing up international accounting standards adopted in Europe; all these matters on which we should "be on the piece," ready, organized and not today; instead, we go to improvise, not to chase the urgency, but the consequences of inertia and ineptitude. In Article 5, paragraph 2, a fund shall be established for which the available resources will be budgeted from 2015. Where is the need? We may have an opinion on this, but where is the urgency? 2015. As pointed out by Article 15 (3) of Law No 400 of 1988, decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application. He emphasized the Constitutional Court, in judgment n. 220 of 2013, referring to Decree-Law n. 201 of 2011, which 'this norm (the aforementioned law n. 400), although not having formal constitutional rank, expresses and explicit what must be considered intrinsic to the very nature of the decree-law, which would come into contradiction with its own premises if it contained provisions intended to have practical effects deferred over time. The presence of provisions of a purely legal nature, which explain their effects over a wide period of time, in fact increases the vices of the decree in relation to the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution. Today we see how the Constitution is seen as a meddle, as a wreck to be removed from the beach, to place the umbrellas and go to the sea on vacation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u95	You should finish, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u96	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I don't think I'm telling you anything new. It would be truly surprising if an honest citizen, in all humility, came to give lessons to you. The text of the question referred for a preliminary ruling is in the documents, I invite you to consider what you are doing and, without waiting for your reply, I am going to the Quirinale. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked Senator Orellana to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as I have often mentioned during my speeches, this is my first parliamentary term and perhaps lack of experience, but as a citizen of this country, as a worker, I feel that I am absolutely certain that this is not how things are done in this hurry, in this approximation, with this lack of care. I am not referring to reform, but to this very measure. I am going to go further and add that this is not the way in which the measures are written. If decrees such as No. 91 of 2014 represent the instruments by which Italy will change towards, through which our country will become competitive, then I am afraid that we will be destined to failure. I fully share the vision of our President-in-Office of the Council: I too hope that Italy will make a profit towards the systemic reform season; but turning our Constitution into a kind of redundant rigid parliamentary regulation, impoverishing it of its delicate balances, is not the right path. To fire decrees-laws of heterogeneous content, like this, with ridiculous financial cover and with provisions so Byzantine that, frankly, everything can make Italy less than competitive is not the right way. This is not how we examine and approve a decree that has the ambitions of what we are about to approve, the now famous decree "competitiveness", carried out in the clippings of time left by the marathon "constitutional." A handful of hours after the beginning of the debate in this House it was not yet possible to have a final text. This is not correct. Perhaps I can push myself to recognize an ideal urgency in having to make our country competitive, but the novelties introduced by the decree that we are preparing to examine openly contrast with this principle. Provisions such as those contained in paragraph 8 of Article 10, which intervenes on the appointment and composition of the Board of Auditors of the ISPRA (Higher Institute for Environmental Research), providing that the appointment of an executive of the Ministry of the Environment is only optional and no longer mandatory, a change that could not be postponed beyond and that will radically change the fate of small and medium-sized enterprises. Sorry for the irony, but the example is clear. Another epochal change that fully grasps the extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, enshrined in Article 77 of our Constitution, is the one provided for in Article 20, which, among other things, raises the role and functions of the Italian Accounting Body to a normative rank. To the delight of our industrial system, which has been waiting for this important innovation for years, this foundation under private law will be able to provide support for the work of Parliament and the Government and express opinions. We then come to the nightmare that every honourable Member is faced with every day: financial cover. It is now a year that I have been trying to introduce measures in the various measures that have followed in favour of start-ups, because I firmly believe that this is a small step in trying to restart our economy and, in particular, in trying to offer hope to our young people. All my attempts have so far been wrecked, against the insurmountable rock of Article 81 of the Constitution, wielded as a weapon even when the cover was technically correct or unnecessary. But the rest is known! The acceptance or not of the coverage is a purely political and non-technical choice, and of this principle I became even more convinced by analyzing the coverages elaborated by the Government for this decree. I mention only superficially the provisions which, although they involve charges, do not provide for an indication of the certain amount, indicating in an excessively vague way how to deal with them, by competing against unsure revenue such as Article 7 (1) and (2), Article 10 (4), (7) and (12), Article 11 (2), (5) and (12). Again with reference to Article 81 of our Constitution, the provisions contained in Articles 21 and 22 deserve particular attention, which seem to be completely without financial cover. Let's move on. Article 13 makes substantial changes to Legislative Decree no. 152, 3 April 2006, introducing to paragraph 5 an additional article, 241- bis, which, among others, provides that for the purposes of identifying the measures of prevention, safety and reclamation to be carried out in the areas of the property intended for the exclusive use of the armed forces, for activities related to national defence, the concentrations of contamination threshold referred to in Table 1, column b, referring to sites for commercial and industrial use, apply. Previously, the benchmarks were those set out in column a of Table 1 above, referring to sites for public, private and residential use, certainly more stringent than the thresholds set out in column b. It is wonderful to discover the new nuances that the current Government gives to the concept of simplification: to move from one column to another clearly. In order to simplify the procedures for reclamation of public land used by the army, it is limited to raising the thresholds, according to which that land was previously considered polluted: very simple. However, I am not sure that in addition to being simple it is equally safe, especially for the health of the Italian people. My thoughts run immediately and with extreme concern towards those who, like the citizens who reside in the vicinity of the experimental polygon of interforce training of Salto di Quirra, will have to live with these dangerous realities. But we come to the true pearl of the entire measure, Article 26, which in fact amends, reducing it, the incentive tariff already recognized, according to the agreements concluded with the Manager of the electric services, to the producers of electricity from photovoltaic plants. In this way the many producers of electricity from photovoltaic plants will have to operate in a totally distorted context through a unilaterally imposed and manifestly retroactive modification. In a previous speech here in this House - if I remember correctly, in March of this year - I asked our President-in-Office of the Council about a possible national energy policy and that I said I would like to see sooner or later also in an energy act, as they were called at that time, as we are now talking about jobs act. If Article 26 is an indirect answer to my question, I cannot say that I am satisfied. This article - like the previous ones, moreover - is not only clearly unconstitutional for its retroactivity, but goes against the objectives of economic growth, strengthening the industrial sector and the socio-economic revival of the country. In conclusion, it is for this reason that the Italian component works in Corso del Gruppo Misto hopes that the iter for the conversion of Decree 24 June 2014, n. 9, will stop here: try again improving.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u98	I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred to him by Mr QP1, but he is not here at the moment. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u101	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we are once again faced with a decree-law and therefore with a substantial expropriation by the Government of Parliament's legislative power. We are at the 16th decree of the Venetian era. This is a decree which we have already examined in its constitutional terms both in this House and in the Commission. As a Forza Italia Group we have already pointed out, unfortunately, not all our concerns, but all our certainties as to the lack of constitutional conditions relating not only to necessity and urgency, but also and above all to the homogeneity of the decree itself. President and colleagues, we have recently been accused of being related or close to lying behaviors. We are told that in politics the lie does not pay, it does not work or simply does not serve. This is what the Government has told us with regard to a path different from that of 'decree competitiveness', but that we are forced to bring in parallel and with times we know extremely contained - on this we have already largely held back - we have been accused of bringing lies to this House that in politics do not serve. We, who believe that often in every criticism an autobiography is nested, precisely with reference to this decree and its twin, which is called a decree simplification - as the one under consideration is called a competitiveness decree - ask the Government, in the first place, to think more carefully about the truth and the lie that characterizes not only the titles but also the contents of its provisions. Talking about "competitiveness" for someone like the one we are discussing, which contains very small and very short-breathed maneuvers, is certainly not a true operation. We do not want to call it a lie, but misleading advertising, and this is only to entertain limited - as is necessary and necessary in this context of debate in this House - blandly and succinctly on the content. It is a decree, whose title contains as a contentistic dictionary issues related to agriculture and school building, the environment and the obligations that must be put in place by our country towards the European Union, which are also included in other measures currently being examined by Parliament, therefore with a drafting of absolutely ineffective legislative fragmentation and to be avoided in a context in which legislation, in order to be effective and efficient, should be above all simple, transparent and as unified as possible. It is a measure that bears in its own title its inability to produce competitiveness and growth, certainly not through its contents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We're discussing the preliminary questions, Senator Bernini. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). It is a measure that brings within its own title the unevenness. Madam President, you teach me that I cannot talk about technical matters, regardless of the content. The Constitutional Court, starting in 2007, continuing in 2008, until the judgment n. 22 of 2012, uses precisely the content of the decree-laws to define them homogeneous or uneven and therefore characterized by requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency, and therefore legitimate or illegitimate; this precisely because of its fragmentary, fragmented, uneven content, I dare say non-inductive growth and, even more, useless. It is a constitutionally unlawful measure from the point of view of Article 77 of the Constitution. The measure under discussion is a measure which lacks scrutiny on the part of constitutional bodies of fundamental importance, which cannot be separated from a constitutional judgment. I wonder - I really ask all my colleagues - how it could have happened, after more than fifteen days of examination carried out by the legislative office of the Quirinale, that Quirinale who, not least on 23 December last, on the occasion of the so-called decree "save Rome," once again invited us not to introduce dishomogeneous amendments in the decree-laws; that Quirinal that infinite times has invited Governments of all colors - let us remember how many times our Government has been invited and with what intensity - [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] not to produce decrees-laws that represented an uneven, generic and inexplicable constitutional urgency in providing, therefore not characterized by that assumption, by that underlying constitutionality that makes it legitimate. Forgive me, Madam President, with all due respect for your speech, but you cannot ignore the contents to see if a decree-law is or is not constitutionally legitimate. And this, as far as we're concerned, is not. And it's amazing that the President of the Republic signed it after thinking 20 days. As far as I am concerned, it is equally astonishing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has twice voted by majority; unfortunately - I have to say, unfortunately - democracy is sometimes somewhat affected by the principle of majority voting, when constitutional illegitimacy is so obvious. It is a pity that this House lacks its function of control, the Presidents of the House and of the Senate lack their function of control, in the presence - I apologise for the bickering of words - of such a total absence of the requirements of homogeneity and the presuppositions of necessity and urgency that must be extraordinary in order to transform the Government into legislator. When constitutional reform passes then there will be preferential lanes, priority routes, the government will be able to legislate faster, but that is not the case now. A decree-law that does not provide for a delegation must have precise presuppositions, and these presuppositions must be respected, and the decree-law in question does not respect them. It does not respect them for its contents, for the procedural modalities that have characterized the exhibition, the extrinsicization of these contents. I would not like to go back to a thread that this House has unfortunately seen so many times, and this, unfortunately, I would like to stress several times because it means that so many times in this House decree-laws have been presented which did not correspond to the constitutional characteristic provided for in Article 67. Many times we have quoted the Constitutional Court's ruling that tells us what the decrees-laws should be, so many times we have quoted the law of No. 400 of 1988, which in Article 15 explains to us how the decree-laws should be. Many times we have said that at a time when the Government makes a decree-law that does not meet the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, it expels the Parliament of its own power and perverts the scheme of separation of powers: the Government governs and the legislator, that is, the Parliament, legislates. All this must take place according to this frequency, if not in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency and if not in a uniform way of legification: both these things, in the measure under consideration, are missing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] For all these reasons, Madam President, which I seem to have made clear and repeated, for procedural and content reasons, I express our absolute conviction that once again, even this decree, the sixteenth decree-law of the Venetian era - of that government which had said that it did not want to use the decree of urgency, and in any case not beyond certain limits - does not correspond to the criteria of constitutional legitimacy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u104	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, as Mrs Bernini correctly pointed out, in 2007 the Constitutional Court first focused not on the prerequisites for the necessity and urgency of the decree-laws, but on the concept of homogeneity of matter. I say this in order to intervene briefly on the constitutionality of this decree, but also by personal fact, because we had to spend a long time, in the previous months, on the law that bears my name. I speak for a personal fact, because this law is precisely known as Fini-Giovanardi. The law dates back to December 2005, when I was Minister for Relations with Parliament, so two years before the Constitutional Court introduced a new jurisprudence. A few months ago the Court dismissed this decree, establishing the strict principle of homogeneity of matter, with great applause from many colleagues who stressed that it is wrong and contrary to the Constitution - as the Constitutional Court has emphasized - to admit or discuss decrees that do not have homogeneity of matter. Now I see that some colleagues who have applauded that sentence of the Constitutional Court, absolutely eccentric (among other things there was homogeneity of matter since the decree-law was presented) are now going to do what I will do, that is to vote for the constitutionality of the decree under consideration. I realize very well that one thing is theory, one thing is parliamentary practice and the necessity of the government and one thing, above all, is consistency. What I refuse is that we should change the voting attitude in Parliament on such sensitive matters, depending on the convenience, applauding case law when it suits us, condemning it when it is not convenient. The same colleagues who applauded the rejection of the Fini-Giovanardi law a few months ago will now vote on this decree, knowing that it is not homogeneous and does not correspond to the judgment of the Court. So I want to make a reference to the coherence of everyone and, for me, to personal coherence. These are the reasons why I shall vote against the preliminary constitutionality of this decree. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]] Orellana (Misto-ILC). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u105	Senator Orellana, you have already explained the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Orellana (Misto-ILC). I would like to speak on the other questions referred for a preliminary ruling. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is a single debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the quorum ENDRIZZI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1541 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1), Senator Cioffi and other senators (QP2) and Senator Orellana and other senators (QP3). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u108	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I just want to point out how, once again, the rush makes mistakes. In fact, I saw hands raised and immediately withdrawn. [[Comments from the PD desks.]] I am well aware of the outcome of the vote, which was seen later, but more uncertain was what was seen before. I would therefore ask for a counter-proof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u109	Senator Endrizzi, the outcome of the vote was obvious. There's no need for rehearsal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u111	Why, Senator D'Adda? D'ADDA (PD). Personally, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u112	Interventions of this kind take place at the end of the session, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to disagree completely with Mrs Bernini, but Decree No 91 of 2014, which we have worked on, is another important and positive step towards the many Italian companies and entrepreneurs who have been holding their breath for months, waiting for the economy to give signs of recovery and talk about new system competitiveness. In the last seven days the data we record show a still overwhelming trend of the economy. The production of European industry in May was again negative, both in the Eurozone and throughout the enlarged Union. According to Eurostat data, industrial production has decreased by 1.1 percent after more than 0.7% in April; this is similar in the European Union: less 1.1% in May, after more than 0.7% in April. Italy has done worse than average, with less than 1.2%, but has found itself in the company of major economies such as Germany and France. Numbers that are similar to those of Confindustria cannot be underestimated. Italy, always according to the report "Conjuncture Flash" of the Confindustria study center, was and is in crisis with an absolutely flat dynamics of GDP over the course of this year. Entrepreneurs are already looking at 2015, the result of which, they explain, is to be built in the second half of this year. Businesses ask us to intervene as soon as possible on competitiveness and public investment, approving as soon as possible the reforms needed to change the country. Given the hand we have to note that our country is still far from seeing the end of the crisis: the ISTAT in fact recorded a decrease in the turnover of the Italian industry, which in May fell by 1% compared to April. In recent months Government and Parliament have taken charge of this emergency and the competitiveness decree is a further component that fits into the measures that go to give breath to those in this country who produce and create work. In fact, industry has a low level of international competitiveness, both because of its low investment in innovation and, above all, because of the high cost of energy. And one of the main aims of this measure is precisely to reduce the cost of energy for small and medium-sized enterprises by restoring them competitiveness from fixed production costs. A measure that, as recently underlined in a hearing also by Bankitalia, can help to consolidate and strengthen the reversal of trend that is being implemented, with positive repercussions for economic growth and financial stability. In particular, through the instruments envisaged to encourage companies to use alternative sources of financing to those of bank credit. In fact, a gradual extension of the instruments and categories of operators from which companies will be able to obtain credit will facilitate the influx of resources to support economic growth. An act that fits into a very important context. Italy has, in fact, a great opportunity ahead of it. From the ECB to September, EUR 300 billion will be made available to banks. Funds that will be strategic to stimulate the economy and give businesses back liquidity to return to investment and create jobs. Money that, as the President of the Council pointed out yesterday, really must be put at the service of the economy or, otherwise, we will never get out of the crisis. One issue, Mr President, I would like to stress. I myself have tabled a parliamentary question, signed by many fellow Senators of the Democratic Party, aimed at clarifying the risk of the new European economic resources being used mainly to strengthen the assets or liquidity of Italian banks and to understand what measures the Government intends to take to direct bank resources to credit for investments, growth and consumption. It is a measure that puts the re-launch of businesses at the centre. If we look in detail at the measure, which has also been improved thanks to the Democratic Party's amending contribution, we see that there are significant rules to give back momentum to our companies. Summing up the most important ones, I would like to mention the investment tax credit and the fact that a series of simplifications are envisaged to facilitate business activity; a deburocratization that starts from the provisions aimed at making more effective the action of the Agency for Businesses in order to reduce and combine fulfillments thanks to an amendment submitted and approved by the Democratic Party; the provisions on tax simplification, on works and contracts, on energy and energy efficiency and on simplification in corporate matters, with particular regard to the establishment of companies with limited liability; the introduction of a tax credit of 15% on investments in new capital goods. No less important is the issue of Sistri, the Waste Traceability System, whose current contract deadline is 31 December 2015. As we know it at present it will be overcome. Already from June 2015 the Ministry of the Environment will start the procedures for the custody of the concession of the service in compliance with the criteria of economicity, simplification between computer systems and constant technological update. A clear leap in quality to combat illicit waste trafficking. With regard to the theme of the extension of the tourist-residence offer, in particular for the small centres, and the contextual redevelopment of private buildings and existing hotel establishments, the State, the Regions and the local self-governments, will be able to define in agreement the conditions of operation of the condo hotels, that is those hotels with fractional ownership, where the individual owners have a management contract with the manager. I have only touched on a few points, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of this measure, leaving out the great contribution that this decree will make to the food products of the Made in Italy and to the farms. Measures which, as was said, could have a substantial impact on the competitiveness of businesses. I want to finish. The structural and atavistic delays that this country carries are a real ballast for healthy Italy that produces and wants to get out of the crisis. It is estimated that if the system covered even half of the accumulated delays to date, GDP would rise by 1.9 percentage points over 5 years. With the vote on this measure - and I am beginning to conclude - Parliament tries to respond to a number of requests and demands coming from the country. We know that this is not enough, but if we really want the economy to recover, we can no longer postpone the interventions that go to change and renew, as a whole, our economic, institutional and social system. Reforms of which the country has a vital need and changes already traced by the government, to which it is up to us - now - to give the right follow-up. Italy deserves - using a football metaphor - to play with the jersey holder in the European and international context, not to stand on the bench. And it is politics, it is we who sit in Parliament that must take charge of it. It is our responsibility and our duty to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u114	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u115	Madam President, first of all, I would like to join... [[The microphone produces interference]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u116	You should change the microphone and use the one on your left.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u117	PUPPATE (PD). Thank you, Madam President. I hope someday I can have a microphone, too, because it hasn't worked for a long time. Our neighbour broke it, so we are practically excluded from the debate. Let's hope the spending review doesn't come to that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You need to talk closer to the microphone because you can't hear anything. PUPPATE (PD). But then it's a boycott! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Fabbri and his colleagues who have preceded me, in particular Mr Mucchetti and Mr Marinello, who is the President of the 13th European Parliament. The Commission, to all those who have cooperated effectively in the course of these days and, I must say, also on these nights, since we have spent the night debating this tome of amendments which have modified in a very broad and positive sense the decree-law presented by the Government, which certainly can be subjected, as we must admit, to the criticism that I have heard from the opposition groups. In fact, it is still true that for too long we have been saying that we would like to avoid having to legislate by including too many arguments in the law-laws that we are going to convert, since this also makes it difficult for the outside world to understand what are the objectives of the work that we are going to do. Even in response to a series of criticisms that have come from my fellow Members, Mr Orellana and Mr Bernini, I would like to try to draw attention to the work that we have done and that I believe is overall serious, even if I will not adorn a couple of criticisms of some issues. Given the measure under consideration on the scale of the balance, it is definitely a job that depends very much in the sense of positivity for this country and I believe, quite rightly, that it can bear the title of decree-competitiveness law. I say this because I do not think it can be denied that the path that we undertaken above all by the coming of the Renzi Government, but also before with the Letta Government, wants to take Italy out of a cumbersome, heavy, bureaucratic system of lengthening the times and of lack of transparency in procedures; a system that has made Italy a difficult country, not only for those who live there and for those who insist in wanting to work and do business, but also for foreign investors who have often found enormous difficulties where they had not gone through the customer system or even worse, as unfortunately happened, corruption. I therefore believe that some of the issues we have dealt with in this measure should certainly be highlighted. First of all, with all the systems available and which we manage to recover through the narrow links of the economic and budgetary difficulties that we live in, we are continuing to aim to feed more and more employment through every initiative aimed at strongly encouraging those who intend to undertake and therefore use the term "doing business" in the most evolved, modern, and capable of producing employment. We do this with regard to agricultural undertakings, with an important tax credit, up to 40% of the costs incurred, and the deduction of 19% of the costs incurred for the rental of agricultural land. We do this with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, for example by providing a tax credit of 15% for investments (Article 18), meeting, as a state and as a country, those who intend to invest in favour of Italy. We also want to encourage the recruitment of workers and, in particular, agricultural workers find some interesting answers in this bill. There is also another element that reinforces all this, with large excerpts of the measure that identify, for example, the strengthening of assets and thus of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have reduced from EUR 120,000 to EUR 90,000 the requirement for companies to be able to engage in international markets thanks to a credit that can result from the inclusion of their shares in the various listing activities. We also want to expand the source of finance for companies; it is an initiative in some experimental and courageous aspects that has included in this bill the possibility that there are not only banks and financial institutions, but also insurance companies among the lenders. Still, we insist that small and medium-sized enterprises find their source of job supply also in the investment in reclamations, of which the country has extraordinary need, in the investment in the matter of hydraulic and geological failure and, why not, also in the financing that we are implementing for 350 additional million euros for school buildings of every order and grade, so that we can intervene to ensure safety and beauty in schools. In fact, we insist on continuing to think that Italy is also as it manifests itself through its best institutions. In this measure we have a number of important aspects, one of which I would like to point out in detail: the dynamic of the EIA and VAS committees. Two articles deal with this mechanism. The reason for this is that it is one of the many heavy, cumbersome issues, but - ahinoi - also very untransparent, if it is true that the Community infringement procedure n. 2086 of 2009 condemns Italy because it denied access to information to citizens, imposing non-logical changes, not understandable, nor acceptable for a country that is part of the Western world, regarding the public political processes of participation and knowledge of the various procedures, especially in the great works. We see the results exactly at this time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. PUPPATE (PD). I am sorry, because I have reached less than half of my speech, but all right, I understand that time has passed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your time is the time your Group gave you. If necessary, you can share it with other colleagues. PUPPATE (PD). Of course. The issue of waste also finds useful developments, some relating to WEEE, thanks to the work of colleagues who have tabled amendments in the Commission, or whether they want to consider waste as a resource for the first time. We are still far from the target, but we are beginning to understand that waste is second raw material. We therefore address the issue of recyclability and, above all, the circular nature of waste, which Europe presents to us, with the European Commission meeting on 2 July last, reminding us that we must recover as much as possible the raw material, not burn it, not consume it, not wipe it underground with bomb dumps. All this means that we have worked quite seriously. There are aspects that have seen a strong debate within my Group, for example on the SISTRI system, which has finally seen a stop after more than 500 million spending by the more than 400,000 Italian companies that have had to subject themselves to a really very opaque and very little acceptable system... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to conclude, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). I'll finish right away. ...with costs that are not justified compared to the fact that we paid five or seven times more than what was on the market seven times less. Here again the judiciary is taking its course and we must open the door, as we are about to do thanks to the intervention provided for in the measure under consideration, so by 30 June 2015, we will be going to do a new European procurement to evaluate the companies that offer themselves... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from Senators Di Biagio, Gambaro and Marinello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u118	Thank you, but I must unfortunately interrupt you, Senator Puppato.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u119	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my Group, the New Right Centre, for giving me this space of time, because I am speaking as President of the 9th Permanent Commission (Agriculture and Agri-food Production), which has carried out a truly non-routine but committed, conscious and determined work on this measure. I believe that it has been a very fruitful work, capable of bringing a number of improvements to the original text. I would remind you that the incorporation into a single decree-law of measures relating to agriculture, the environment and economic development has put our Commission in the face of the need simply to deliver an opinion on the two Commissions which have dealt with it extensively. We have chosen to deliver a strengthened opinion and I thank Senator Pignedoli for her hard work. The Commission has experienced a positive working method, based on an open and collegial discussion between the Commission senators and also characterised by a close interaction with the Government, which I thank for the attention it has given, through the Minister and the Deputy Minister, to our issues and our emphasis. I said an in-depth and proactive analysis, which led us to make not only a unanimous opinion, but also shared amendments, which were accepted in the final text. I remember some of the most important aspects of merit. On the issue of simplification, it should be pointed out that the Single Register of Inspections also includes data on the checks carried out on agricultural enterprises by private bodies authorised under the current legislation, the establishment of a system for assessing the administrative reliability of the agricultural undertaking, the provision of a special authorisation for the marketing of wood packaging under the guarantee mark and the provisions to allow consortia for the protection of typical geographical indications provided for at European level in the matter of spirit drinks. Another very qualifying aspect is the inclusion of a new article setting up the business advisory system. I would also like to mention, in paragraph 3 of Article 3, the inclusion of the specification for which access to the tax credit is also provided for companies formed in cooperative form or grouped into consortia and, in paragraphs 1 and 3, the extension of the interventions for the support of Made in Italy in the agricultural sector also to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. We have highlighted the limited resources allocated to both the measures provided for therein and the associated risk that interventions may be affected in terms of effectiveness. We have pointed out, and are returning to point out, to the Government the need to make a commitment to transfer to the next law of stability. Other important measures that I would like to mention, among the many that could be mentioned, concern, first of all, with regard to Article 6, the inclusion of a further article after 6 laying down provisions on network contracts in the agricultural, forestry and agri-food sector, which reproduces, with rewordings, Article 10 of Law No 1328, the related agriculture. I would also like to mention the inclusion, after Article 7, of a further article on measures to support agricultural enterprises carried out by young people, which reproduces, with rewordings, Article 13 of the link. Finally, reaffirming the need for a single integrated information system for agriculture, we propose the inclusion, after the same, of a further article containing provisions for organic farming aimed at the establishment of the information system for organic farming integrated with the one, taking again, in this case too, the provisions of the related agriculture. In addition to this, Madam President, I would also like to inform the House of a further initiative which we have formulated as an agenda, signed with the initials G4100 (text 3), which I have submitted for consideration by the House, drawing on the provisions of Article 4 (8) of Decree-Law No 91. The agenda, which was also Mr Dalla Tor's second signatory, but which also received the signature of the representatives of many political, majority and opposition groups present in this House, has made commitments - I would like to stress the importance of this commitment that we are asking the Government - to the Government on the important issue of research on plant biotechnology. This agenda shows that on this point, which is crucial for the future of research into genetically modified organisms in a confined laboratory environment, we have built a convergence between many political forces. I do not hide - indeed, I stress - that my political culture leads me to feel close to the issues that, even in these days, once again, have been illustrated by illustrious presidents of Italian scientific societies, even with public positions. Obviously the agenda does not conflict at all; it shows, indeed, that it shares with regard to the decisions, which the Senate has also taken, to characterize our agriculture as non-GMO and to do a specific battle in Europe in this regard. But these two commitments are not at all conflicting with each other. We stress that it seems absolutely wrong, even in a historical assessment, to have penalized, for twenty years now, Italian research and expertise on plant biotechnology, which were placed at the top of the world. In our opinion, biotechnology research must be relaunched in order to have young and qualified skills, in order to adequately manage official control over the presence of genetically modified organisms in food, as well as to ensure that our researchers and our country are present in European and international research networks. We are convinced that only knowledge can bring about safety and control. I want to acknowledge Minister Martina's timely presentation of the Strategic Plan for Innovation and Research in the Agricultural, Food and Forestry System, which I believe can be a useful tool and consistent with the objectives that we also aim to achieve. The legislative intervention of the related agriculture, of which I am rapporteur and which we will explain at the time, is aimed, among other things, to confer delegation to the Government also for the reorganization and rationalization of the field of research and experimentation in the agro-food sector and the support to technological spin-offs. It will be another important opportunity for institutional dialogue to offer a positive response to the expectations of the agricultural food system. That is why - and I shall conclude - I would like to stress that the measure we are examining, and which we are going to vote on tomorrow, is truly capable of supporting the whole agricultural, agri-food sector and also of relaunching research in these important areas. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u121	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after days of discussing constitutional reforms, we are here to examine a decree-law called, paradoxically, 'competitiveness', which should propose a set of actions aimed at relaunching certain sectors of our economy. It is not enough a decree to relaunch our country, especially if analysed with the same closure as the Government and the majority placed themselves during the work in the Commission. Despite some timid positive signs of recovery, Italy is a country in crisis, experienced by the recession whose first victims are families and small and medium-sized enterprises, the latter the main source of employment and wealth of our economy. On the state of our country's competitiveness, the 2014 Doing Business 2014 report of the World Bank shows us a bleak picture, in which Italy occupies the sixty-fifth place in the world out of 189, behind countries like Tonga, Botswana, Belarus and Rwanda. The problems are well known. Italy's lack of competitiveness always weighs the same knots: taxation, bureaucracy, credit, justice, infrastructure. These problems have also been confirmed by the International Monetary Fund in the study "European productivity, innovation and competitiveness: the case of Italy" in which it has been pointed out that the Italian framework is particularly aggravated by the lack of structural reforms, repeatedly announced in recent years and never pursued fully by the Government that is increasingly attentive to launching roboating slogans rather than working for the good of the country. Italy, read in the analysis of the International Monetary Fund, is decidedly immobile in terms of innovation and technology. There is always the weight of the State that makes it difficult, if not impossible, to undertake a free and private economic activity. It is always businesses that create jobs. It is difficult to stem the scourge of unemployment which today is at alarming levels as it affects 13% of Italians in working age and 46% of young people. Italy is in the ninetieth place for the simplicity of starting a business, the one hundred and thirteenth place for obtaining permits to build, the one hundred and nineth place for access to credit. In Italy there are 6 million companies, almost every ten inhabitants, one of the highest values in Europe, testifying to the desire to do business of Italians. The companies that have responded best to the difficulties of these years have managed to open up to the international market, ensuring that exports are kept. Our country is among the top five in the world to have a trade surplus of more than $100 billion. Most companies, however, are linked to the internal market, which has gone into crisis because of the reduction in consumption. In the light of this analysis, the decree under consideration, which can be improved with constructive cooperation between the parties, translates into incomplete and non-incisive rules, which do not affect, if not marginally, the real problems. I would therefore like to highlight a number of amendments which I proposed and which, incomprehensiblely, have been rejected without plausible reasons. Firstly, in the field of agriculture, for example, the control of agricultural enterprises is being rationalised, but the simplification provisions are not being extended, as it would be logical to do, to all companies in the agri-food chain. The same perspective limited to a single type of actor is derived from the provisions of support to the made in Italy not extending the tax credit provided for the producing companies also to those of the distribution of the products. The second point concerns the issue of access to credit, which has also been taken up by Draghi in his decisions at European level. As long as banks do not facilitate businesses by providing more liquidity and more investment, it is unlikely that they will be able to get out of this grip. The only European action on interest rates is not enough. In the Commission, with two amendments, I have tried to offer proposals aimed at making alternative instruments available to businesses in order to broaden the possibilities of obtaining funding which, however, have been stubbornly opposed. In the first of these two amendments, I expected a company to issue bonds equal to three times its share capital and reserves, instead of twice as much as it currently has. Well, this proposal has been rejected as it would have meant more burdens for the state: but how is it possible, given that there is no involvement of public finance? In the second amendment an increase in the possibilities of buying own shares to entrepreneurs who believe in their business was allowed. In this case, too, we have been given an opinion against it. And then I wonder how a government can reject any proposal aimed at promoting the trust of entrepreneurs and private investors in companies in order to promote their recovery and development. Thirdly, in the field of energy, the objective of energy redevelopment of school buildings is to be welcomed, but there are too many spending programmes and too many implementation procedures, through which we risk dispersing the modest resources that have been allocated in recent years. Secondly, in order to exploit the resources envisaged, including those currently available to local authorities, the Internal Stability Pact should be properly relaxed. The 10% reduction in the energy bill of small and medium-sized enterprises is correct, but certainly not sufficient. Italy's small and medium-sized companies pay 68 percent more than the European average and 61 percent more than larger households. In view of this situation, with more than 370,000 companies that closed only in 2013 due to the excessive burden of costs, I proposed a cut in prices in order to ensure a fair distribution of charges. Alas, even in this case, Government and majority remained deaf to the cry of those who work, day after day to support the country economically. I therefore believe that structural reform of our energy sector is essential, which eliminates inefficiencies and reduces the tax burden on bills. However, the path taken by the Government has once again provided for a simple redistributive mechanism of charges, in a mere transfer of costs from one category of subjects to another. I agree with Deputy Minister De Vincenti when he says that a new industrial policy is needed, but it is the methodology currently followed by the Government that is intolerable: the continuous recourse to decree-laws, seventeen in five months, inevitably ends up creating normative confusion and closes every space of discussion and criticism, especially if the question of trust arises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm finishing, ma'am. If the government had demonstrated the same interest in the matter of competitiveness as it has in bringing home constitutional reforms and if the matter had been dealt with by a bill, surely the result would have been far better, shared and more effective. But it is known (and terminum), Renzi cares more about the skills than the country's competitiveness, prefers the commercial measures to structural reforms; he even slipped in September the famous jobs act. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u123	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after discussions in the Commission, sleepless nights and real tours of the force, we are, as at the end of a tunnel, debating this measure; a text which should at last give impetus to companies, should be concerned with farms and their management costs, should enable Italians to do business with a view to a total reduction in energy expenditure and other provisions which unfortunately have only the ambition of heading in that direction. However, we cannot talk about the rule under consideration without taking into account the gloomy atmosphere, the air in these frantic days of the Chamber. The political battle over the reforms of these days is leaving heavy strangleholds in lucidity, but above all in the spirit of so many of us. The institutional forcing, which goes far beyond the logic of an innovative spirit, with which the majority tries to change the rules of democracy, degrades every impulse to cooperation, to the sharing of projects and ideas. Was it necessary to co-articulate the hand so much with such a weak and lame constitutional reform, when instead such a measure, we reiterate, that it should go in the direction of progress for the citizens, for the entrepreneurs and workers of this country, had the need of times of metabolization, of amending activities and constructive treatment quite different? And I am certainly addressing the Government, which in these days is really showing a short-sightedness that we did not imagine could go so far, but as has often been the case since the beginning of this Commission, imposing time and means, has pressed for this text, which has been amended to the Commission, to come to this House and has thus begun to examine today with inspirational ambitions that are not being maintained. Too many points and inconsistencies are evident, as so many associations and organizations in the sector have already highlighted, let alone no significant, concrete and modernising news for the future of the Italian business sector is evident in the text. This is what emerges from the point of view of merit, therefore of the substance of the norm and cannot see us satisfied or in favour of its approval. One last point I would like to share with the Presidency and my fellow Members here. I believe that this should be expressed without inflaming the formal aspect of the legislative issue we are debating. This is not the first time that I have supported it from these benches: calling for confidence in almost all measures is an unprecedented form of institutional and legislative embarrassment. Moral blackmail is the lowest point in representative democracy. Every day there is talk of reforms and changes in the sign of the improvement of the civil, economic and social life of Italians. But what innovation or what progress can the continuous challenge put on the representatives of the people? Some say that it is a hallucination of those who disagree, that cannot be denied by the force of reason, but the authoritarian drift that is taking over the country is obvious and to understand this it is not necessary to use any kind of force: just observe the facts with impartiality and intellectual honesty. [[Applause from Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u125	She is registered to speak Senator Pignedoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u126	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of my speech, allow me to express (as rapporteur for the measure in the Committee on Agriculture) my satisfaction with the work done jointly with all the groups in the Commission, as Mr Formigoni said. The satisfaction of testing and testing live that, if we lower our preliminary positions, if we look beyond tactics, the points of meeting are, and our Commission has done this: it has tabled a package of amendments signed by all the groups. I want to stress this because I believe that, in the face of a moment when the difficulties are so important for our country, and agro-food is a sector with great potential, I believe that this must be the attitude. Everyone on their own legitimate positions, but a great commitment to speed up the issues on which there is a meeting point, eliminating the partisan rites and the concern to address the individual amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This has been the case in the Committee on Agriculture, and I also thank everyone, from President Formigoni to the Group leaders, to individual colleagues, who have all contributed, each in part, to improve the measure, and I thank the Government for its cooperation and constant presence, in hours and hours of work. The measure under discussion today, with regard to the growth of competitiveness in agriculture, partially addresses the issues that concern the sector, but it certainly addresses some of them that are fundamental for real growth of competitive capacity, i.e. simplification, support for Made in Italy, quality work, young people and quality protection. On the simplification of controls, a simplified system of controls has been introduced: that single register of controls for businesses, which requires coordination of the entities and bodies responsible for controls and requires uniformity of behaviour. It is a system that puts an end to the multiplication of visits to companies with overlapping of requests, documents multiplied, time unnecessarily lost and consequently of inappropriately wasted costs for companies. This is how the single register of controls is established: that instrument already adopted in my region, Emilia-Romagna, since 2013, where a concrete simplification is being carried out. From this experience we have taken inspiration from our proposals for legislation, which we find accepted in this measure, and we are glad that today it is taken as a national model. 20.31 p.m. (Following PIGNEDOLI). We then act for the elimination of the innumerable registers, a dematerialization, intervening on the computer tools. I remind those who are not involved in the work that a winery - the wine sector is at the top of the list of bureaucratic complexity - has over 17 registers to manage within it. Simplifications have been introduced for mountain farms, i.e. those territories where production costs are higher than elsewhere to maintain quality production and cannot count on large quantities or adequate compensation from the market, and for this reason they cannot have further procedures and loads of requirements which are sometimes disproportionate. I also think it was important to introduce, although there is still a great deal to be done, a logic of the adequacy of the measures, proportionate sanctions adapted to the size of the enterprises, the seriousness of the sanctions, the specificity of the territories and the productive sectors. I quote as an example the introduction of the warning instrument, the possibility of regularizing within twenty days the violations of a formal and administrative nature, if they can be healed and if done for the first time. Proportional rules have been introduced for fuel containers for the refueling of agricultural machinery. Efforts have been made to combine safety and management of agricultural work, which leads to no general rules on fire-fighting on often small farms, risking becoming disproportionate and penalising for the normal management of agricultural activity. On food safety, IT systems dedicated to the biological system have been introduced, which together maintain efficiency, rigour and transparency, as well as on the sector of the buffalo mozzarella DOP, in which the elements of control and traceability and sanctions have been increased. For the support of Made in Italy, access to the tax credit has been extended, provided for the strengthening of e-commerce, for the development of business networks, and we have asked and obtained that it be extended to enterprises in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. In the face of one of the most critical problems of the Italian agricultural sector, namely the spraying and the lack of systems to face the international markets, the decree provides incentives for companies that implement network contracts for investments in research and technological innovation for the participating companies. A decisive point of the measure concerns young people: these are measures which provide for deduction on rents. But it is extremely important, thanks to one of our amendments, to introduce (already proposed by Minister Martina) the possibility of soft loans for investments, lasting ten years, at zero rates. It is a strong, concrete, immediate action. It's the future. There is a return of interest on the part of the new generations to agricultural activities, but it is still a very inadequate percentage. For young people, we have put forward proposals which this measure partially collects, but will have to be supplemented by a strong proposal on the problem of the unsustainable costs of land, which is the main barrier for access to land in the plain areas. An important point of the decree is the network of quality work. The aim is to build an instrument of alliances between institutions and businesses, to combat undeclared work and contributory evasion. We consider this a step forward, but the proposal that our Group had put forward, in this case, was a real meeting point between demand and labour supply; a meeting point where companies, institutions but also workers contribute to an instrument that represents a real growth of civilization and ethics in this sector. We'll do it again. Therefore, important work has been done in this measure and I would also like to express my personal satisfaction. At the same time, I would remind you that there are still a lot of incomplete, unfinished things that we will be resuming in the measure on agricultural issues, namely in connection with agriculture incardinated in the 9th Commission. We will also propose a serious reflection on the effectiveness and distortions of Article 62, not accepted in this measure; on the field of agricultural mechanics, which has problems and urgent needs to be addressed; on the fisheries sector, which is at a critical stage and has the urgency to start a strong conversion into innovation and reorganization. We will propose - there has been no possibility of doing so within the new system of controls - a system of assessing the administrative reliability of agricultural undertakings. We called it an administrative rating: a system in which fairness, rules become a value for businesses, a value to recognize and - why not - to spend on the market, in which the entrepreneur is an ally of the State in the search for the high quality of products and production systems. Because on the high quality, and not on the quantity, it can count the Italian agricultural system. With all this we want to make explicit our challenge, to do now, in this 2014, in which we prepare for an international exhibition dedicated to food that will impose on the agro-food sector to internationalize game force; in a 2014 in which part the new phase of the CAP, that will offer new perspectives and new measures; in a year in which we have reached the highest point, never before reached, of the agro-food export. Today, with this measure, we are facing an important first part of this challenge: support, rationalisation, incentives and investment, but above all an investment in confidence, in the future of agriculture. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the text under discussion, we have been forced by the Government, without apparent legitimate motivation, to work even at night to satisfy the political interests of this majority in government. A majority far from the real needs of the citizens, but always ready to bend the most elementary democratic rules on the serene and careful legislative debate to satisfy the demands of his party godparents. In the context of this measure, I would like to stress, with my intervention, the absolute importance of asserting the ban on the capture, rearing and use of birds as a lively reminder. As is well known, the European Commission has made our country blackmail, pointing out that the capture of wild birds for recall purposes is an infringement of the Birds Directive. On this point, it is useful to recall what was pointed out by LIPU (Italian League for the Protection of Birds), with regard to the inconsistency of the PD amendment adopted in the Commission, where it is written that prohibited means cannot be used in accordance with Annex IV to the Birds Directive. Well, among these means are the nets, but in Italy the catch takes place only with the nets. The consequences of this regulation (and of the approved amendment) will then not be understood. In short, as usual, yet another "Renzie" mess, further confirmation of the inability and inadequacy of this majority, attentive only to proclamations and demagogic announcements. In this context, in order to promote the interests of arms lobbyists and hunters, the majority decided to exclude from the discussion the amendment of the 5 Star Movement (which I had tabled), the only political force in Parliament clearly deployed to defend the protection and protection of animals and against all forms of use of weapons and violence also in the world of nature. In short, a new shameful page written by the new, old Government De Benedetti-Berlusconi, excuse me, Renzi-Berlusconi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u129	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representative of the Government, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Commissions, the rapporteurs, the representatives of the Government and all those who have worked on this measure. As Vice-President Pignedoli and President Formigoni well recalled, in the Agriculture Committee we managed to establish a climate of deep sharing among all members of majority and opposition, with Minister Martina and above all with Deputy Minister Olivero. In this climate, important amendments have been drawn up and their almost complete approval. We can therefore say, almost with pride, that a measure in which agriculture had become almost marginal, has regained authority and, even if the measure was not assigned to our Commission, we have managed to have a constructive impact. I must also say that the Group for the Autonomies has made a serious and comprehensive contribution to this measure and several of our amendments have been accepted and have helped to improve the content of this bill. However, this good will has clashed with a choice of method that we self-employed are struggling to understand. This time, too, we are faced with a measure which, since the basic text, took on the characteristics of an omnibus measure. In the Committee on Agriculture we were and are pursuing a complex and complex reflection on the sector, which should have had two regulatory approaches: on the one hand the so-called free field measure and, on the other hand, the related agriculture. The first has disappeared from the horizon of the future measures - although I must say that the name of this measure was particularly nice to me, because it seemed to free the agricultural sector from too many snares and too many rules concerning it - and we had to literally ravage within the decree-competitiveness law the measures that had been designed. It is a method of working that does not convince us, because if the measures are not within their solid framework, they end up being buffer measures, which certainly allow to heal a number of situations (as undoubtedly has been done with the measure under consideration), but which do not have the necessary strategic breath. Then we can only take note that this measure presents many and certainly important measures, which have gradually grown up with the contribution of the Commissions in the referent and of the individual senators who participated in it, but which are at the limit of not being in a systemic framework, in a strategic vision and in an overall plan of reform. As has also been mentioned by those who preceded me, agriculture is a strategic element for the recovery of the country and it is not only for the quality and the absolute competitiveness of our products (from this point of view the Expo of Milan will certainly be an important test bench), but also because it is an instrument that makes to live typicality and local identity. As I said during the debate on constitutional reforms, we must put aside all neo-centralist temptations and we must make territorial vocations live in the global world. It is only thanks to the territories and only from the territories that new opportunities for growth and development can be born. Made in Italy is fine, but we do not mortify the individual typicalities that characterize and make precious our territory. Given this necessary premise on the whole of the measure, it seems to me appropriate to point out that the measures which favour bureaucratic simplification, energy efficiency, school building, as well as those for safety and environmental protection, measures for fisheries and aquaculture, interventions on hunting, economic growth, wine-growing, the very clear and precise agenda on GMOs (remembered by President Formigoni), the quality work network and network contracts, are all positive facts. In order to return to the agricultural sector, it is worth highlighting the important simplification measures, those relating to the coordination and unification of controls, the introduction of prior warning against the order for payment and the first important measures for youth entrepreneurship. I would also like to mention the rule concerning the burning of vegetable residues from crop operations. It was very important to create a distinction between what happens in other realities (I do not want to evoke the so-called land of fires in Campania) and what happens instead in agriculture, where the burning of small amounts of residues does not constitute any environmental danger, because it is the result of an ancient tradition, always controlled in ways and forms. Equally important is the amendment, which was also tabled with my colleague Mr Berger, on the geographical exploitation of the cross-breeds of vitis vinifera with other species of the genus vitis. The theme is not insignificant, because they are under study, and some already in production, varieties obtained from crossroads that have proved to be particularly resistant to some pathologies or suitable for particular climatic conditions. In our region a serious experimentation has been underway for years to select the best varieties that allow to reduce the number of treatments and therefore to guarantee a higher quality of the product. Today it is essential to be able to give these new varieties a geographical identification that allows the exploitation of those already in production and stimulates the installation of those indicated by our research centres. Of course, a lot of attention is needed, because not all hybrids are valid, but the way forward is the right one, because it is in the direction of sustainability and a greater guarantee for consumers. As are those rules, some of which were introduced following the valuable amending activity carried out in the Commission, which concern the exemption of the presentation of cultivation licences for land up to 5,000 square metres; the rules for transhumance sheep farming and the rules for the exemption of fuel deposits up to 6 cubic metres from the fire prevention rules. It is certainly a measure of common sense. Then we note a positive fact: a new and precious attention to the small agricultural realities for which some norms - mostly thought having in mind the large flat farms - risk producing a real bottleneck. These are not enough rules yet, but we are on the right track. We must all understand that mountain farming is not only an important segment in terms of agri-food supply, but also an antidote to the depopulation of certain important areas of our territory. For this reason, our hope is that this specific aspect will be given great space within the related agriculture, in which it is necessary to provide for those resources which, within the measure we are discussing, continue to be insufficient if the objective really is to give a whip to our economy in order to get out of stagnation. Organic farming and social farming must also be considered. We need to create more system tools to make sure that the different productions and sectors of agriculture work together and together are promoted, and that we can also use international platforms. From this point of view, we note as a negative the retroactive reduction of incentives for photovoltaic energy. There are households and many companies that have invested tens, hundreds of thousands of euros, or even millions, with very substantial bank exposures. We are struggling to understand the reasons behind this reverse and we highlight that this certainly does not help citizens to regain confidence in the institutions, and does not help to give Italy international credibility. Many protests have already been raised these days and the situation is of some concern. The amendments that have been accepted by the Government, and then also by the rapporteurs, despite an absolutely commendable effort, are at the moment little more than an act of goodwill because they do not give certainty either about the timing or the instruments to be put in place. For us, an important test point will now become the related agriculture, where that systemic vision of the matter that is absent from this measure must find dimension. In other words, we must proceed with the reorganization of the bodies and bodies, with greater coordination between the bodies responsible for controls, with the restoration of those tax facilities which, especially for the small rural property of mountain areas, are vital for the survival and growth of companies forced to live under prohibitive conditions. The economic forecasts about the possibilities of economic recovery do not go in the direction the country wanted. That is why we believe that the same amount of courage that the Government is showing on other subjects should be directed primarily at economic issues. That is to say, we cannot limit everything to EUR 80. That measure was also important for its symbolic value. But the symbols, now more than ever, we have to follow the facts. I conclude by thanking, also on behalf of the Group of the Autonomous Groups, the rapporteurs, as well as Presidents of the Commissions, Senators Marinello and Mucchetti, the Deputy Ministers Olivero and De Vincenti who, with their collaborators, were really valuable to face a complex measure in its articulation, considering the many and articulated themes, as well as in the preparation of the amendments. [[Applause from Senators Berger and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u130	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, on the premise of a method: once again, the Government presents to Parliament a decree, the seventeenth, consisting of uneven rules on agriculture, the environment, energy, support for businesses, company law, school building and much more. Each of these areas deserves attention and deepening in order to develop effective and structural measures based on appropriate general and coordinated designs. Therefore the method followed is not acceptable because it generates an abnormal amount of punctual interventions, with the risk of strong operational contradictions, and must be quickly overcome. Before entering into the merit of some points, I would like to stress that the ability to compete of our country in the international economic panorama depends primarily on a decisive factor: that of regulatory simplification and deburocratization. In fact, the increase in ability to compete passes through the reduction (or total elimination) of unnecessary costs linked to the hundreds of obligations to which companies, both large and small, are called daily (I would say daily vexed). As has already been said, we are constantly last among the great European countries in the international rankings for ease of doing business: this is precisely because of the weight of regulation and the countless bureaucratic obligations to be fulfilled. In other words, for Italy, public inefficiency is a serious problem that undermines competitiveness. It would therefore have been essential to make a greater effort to reduce bureaucracy costs in the wake of competitiveness. The decree we are dealing with does not allow us to see an overall picture, for example in the field of energy. In order to honour the agreeable promise of reducing the cost of energy for SMEs, there are a number of actions, which I believe are inconsistent with each other, which are damaging more industrial sectors, with a potential negative impact on employment. All this in order to obtain reductions in the electricity bill for SMEs probably lower than expected and declared 10% and with a share of beneficiaries so large that in some cases bring annual reductions of a few euros. Nothing, compared to the costs of bureaucracy. It would have been necessary, in advance, to define clearly the actions that characterize the energy policy, eliminating inefficiencies and reducing taxes and taxes and parafiscal charges on the kilowatt hour; this also in the light of the commitments that we are making towards Europe. On the other hand, while the European Union encourages energy efficiency, in Italy, on the one hand, the use of renewables and energy efficiency are mortified, on the other hand, photovoltaics are penalised, through which huge resources are saved every year, including through the least use of fossil fuels; on the other hand, the effect of reducing the national single price of energy, reduced by almost 40% in three years, is not fully understood, which could transfer the positive effects on many consumers. A concrete example is found in the rules on internal energy networks and efficient user systems. The discipline dictated by the decree weighs down the bill for some virtuous models of energy production and consumption. The decree, in fact, imposes the payment of the so-called system charges on the energy not taken from the public network, that is self produced for own consumption, from industrial networks and from systems to renewable sources or to high energy efficiency. It seems that, as a side effect, the Government declares war on energy efficiency with a great turnaround compared to the legislative decree it has recently adopted on this matter and the European directives on energy policy. In this way efficient user systems and the cogeneration of large industrial groups are penalised. These are the experiences, however, thanks to which the energy item, from unsustainable cost, becomes an added value for the enterprise and gives it competitive capacity. I would now like to make a note of the rules concerning photovoltaics. Article 26, now profoundly amended in relation to the original text, intervenes in this area with actions that cannot be shared. With the so-called spread-incentive mechanism (reduce-incentive laws) those who have invested in photovoltaic renewable energy now suffer a sudden and heavy penalty of the economic and financial perspectives: on the one hand the investors affected by the norm will have to bear the direct costs, on the other the entire system Country will suffer the negative consequences of a retroactive and unweighted intervention. What can be the international credibility of a country that changes the rules in progress, undermining the profitability of multi-annual investments? The confidence of the markets is gained with the stability of the economic and regulatory system, the image of a reliable country is built with the consistency of the decision-makers' choices and the reputation with the respect of the commitments made. On the contrary, the intervention on photovoltaics, modifying the terms of the agreements between the State and private individuals, entails less credibility and worse international reputation of Italy in the eyes of investors. We cannot forget that numerous and costly internal and international disputes are predictable. Such a mechanism for reducing and dilution of incentives seems to conflict with the investment protection forecasts contained in the European Energy Charter Treaty. Finally, as was apparent from the hearings in the Commission, risks to the economic and financial sustainability of the projects (up to possible defaults) and, in any case, lower profitability thresholds for the installations in operation cannot be excluded. The rewording proposed by the rapporteurs calls on the Authority for electricity, gas and water systems to determine some important aspects; however, the issue of clarity for the investor/entrepreneur is not surpassed both in terms of size and duration of the reductions in incentives, such as: cuts now, new rules who knows. To confirm these considerations I quote the manifesto published yesterday in the main newspapers by investment funds and Italian and foreign industrial operators. Another critical aspect concerns the rules on the on-site combustion of materials from the care of rural areas. A decisive effort has been made to enhance these materials for energy purposes, preferring the most attractive (in terms of consent) possibility without penalties for local burning. Therefore, electricity and heat from renewable sources are not produced and thus support the industrial capacity of the sector. I start by recalling some positive aspects that, thanks to the work of the Commissions, it was also possible to include with the amending contribution of Forza Italia. I refer to the rules for the simplification of certain procedures relating to the construction of large electricity infrastructures or to rules which concern, albeit with considerable delay, the exploitation of methane, by setting short and precise deadlines for the adoption of the relevant technical rules. However, this cannot be enough. There is an urgent need for a careful and thoughtful plan for our country's energy policy, on which Parliament's contribution can be obtained. With this instrument we could be aware of the effects of the actions implemented and assess the consequences of our decisions on the basis of elements of certainty. I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that uncertainty does not allow development. The lack of simplification hinders the enterprise; I would not like to bring bad, but with these premises, at least for the energy part, the decree-law for the revival of the competitiveness risks in fact becoming a blocking measure-Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u132	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u133	Mr President, I would like to say that it is very difficult to speak after a few hours from the news we have received and therefore from the climate that has arisen and with the deep wound that we feel in our hearts for such an illegitimate application of the Rules of Procedure. It is very difficult to talk about technical issues when there is an attack on the heart of the system. Anyway, I'll try. We find ourselves discussing a measure with the aim of finding solutions to relaunch the competitiveness - as the measure itself headlines - of the Italian economy, which remains in full pain despite the efforts of the current Government. In the 10th Commission, for a year, we have been exploring some issues of general interest, such as reducing the cost of energy, through a survey of electricity and gas prices as a strategic factor for the growth of the country's production system. An investigation that has now come close to the final goal, but that, with a stroke of hand, is quickly overcome by the imposition of this Government, which has decided to address the issue in a few aspects, in a partial and not systemic way. Indeed, the important part of the competitiveness measure concerns the so-called bubble cutter, which should reduce the cost of energy for businesses by 10%. The covers are mainly recovered by means of two measures: a tax on self-consumption - I repeat: self-consumption - of energy produced and the so-called main incentives for photovoltaic plants, as approved in the 10th Commission. Because of the first measure, the tax on self-consumption, there is the real risk, not to say the almost total certainty, of blocking the future development of renewables, by inserting an energy tax that a subject produces himself and consumes, without going through the public network, thus compromising the development of energy democracy. We must not forget that political democracy is also a consequence of energy democracy: as long as we have few large producers with enormous economic weight, of course it will be more difficult to have a political democracy. Among the critical elements to be taken into account are the aspects raised in the hearings held in the Commission of the Authority for Electricity and Gas, which states that the implementation of this measure is particularly complex and requires long periods of time with costs that could be significant compared to the effects of this measure. In fact, the application of the general system charges to the electricity consumed, for all configurations, would require the complete innovation of the information flows on which the operation of the electricity system and the billing systems is based, adding different complexity. What does that mean? It means that the government has put in place a rule - for goodness sake, in good faith - without obviously confronting the technical part, which now says: nice idea, but attention that will technically cost you more than what you are going to get. There are no applauses from my colleagues because they are not present... [[Applause from Senator Piccoli.]] I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Piccoli, for whom I was able to hear the speech and, of course, we broadly agree. In the second case, therefore, with reference to the so-called spread incentives, many jobs will be put at risk and the entire generation of photovoltaic energy, which already helps to save every year 3 billion euros of gas imports, which has already lowered the cost of the electricity bill by more than 1 billion euros and which makes us increasingly independent from foreign suppliers - the theme of independence always returns - contributing enormously to reducing emissions. Let's remember that currently there are 60 million tonnes of CO2 that renewable energy saves us; I could also make you the profit account of what 60 million tons of CO2 saved, but I just say that health is priceless. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on these issues I would like to ask for your attention in order to discuss certain aspects. As proposed in this House, without listening to the operators and stakeholders, the measure has not improved compared to the original text. It remains an obstacle to competition from clean energy producers to help fossil energy producers. A study by the CGIA di Mestre also shows that only 15% of SMEs will be covered by this standard, leaving out more than 4 million small businesses. In this case, too, the Energy Authority has supported this argument, considering that the individual benefits generated by SMEs will be rather small. Now, we are talking about millions of euros, which of course is not an indifferent figure. However, it should be compared with the waste of public works; I can think of the current situation: the MOSE in Veneto, a very critical work and the cost of which has risen by several billion euros (not millions of euros). But, returning specifically to the electricity sector, also the costs of SOGIN, which deals with the safety of nuclear power plants, with recent arrests for unclear events make us realize that with a more diligent public administration expense and charging malt could be recovered resources, avoiding destroying the renewables sector. It is possible to intervene without blocking the sustainable future, but through other solutions and resources, including the many waste we spend and - let us remember - the subsidies to fossil fuels, which the European Union and the International Energy Agency suggest to eliminate. We refer to interconnectors, breakability, capacity payment, CIP 6 and many other subsidies paid by the consumer bill, but not only. It would be appropriate to check all actions to reduce the embarrassing detachment of about 25 euros to megawatts between the energy price defined in the electricity exchange and the energy component that consumers pay in bills. It would also be appropriate to introduce a carbon tax or intervene for the reactivation of hydroelectric pumped plants and the reduction of the cost of the gas, verifying the opportunity to revise the take or pay contracts and much more. On the other hand, it is worth remembering that only a few months ago we refinanced the Sulcis clean coal plant for EUR 1.2 billion. When I say 'clean', of course I refer only to the final phase, therefore to the production of electricity, but we must see the whole coal supply chain and, of course, this is extremely dirty and extremely polluting. Colleagues, as you can see, there are proposals, but the government did not want to face them, because this majority lacks the will to change. Affossing the renewable energy sector for us is not only a problem of respect for the principles and constitutional values of protection of the territory and the environment and promotion of employment; for the 5 Star Movement the problem is exclusively 'Politic', with quotes and with capital P. There will be no political independence without economic independence and this will necessarily result from strategic control of energy resources. It was Enrico Mattei's idea. On these political issues the citizens and the 5 Star Movement want to confront each other. So, Government and majority, if you want to restore splendor to the beauty of our Italy, we begin to talk in the House about energy policy, about how to face the transition to a decentralised, efficient and 100% renewable energy model, about how to achieve energy independence and therefore also the political ability to take autonomous decisions that can contribute to recovery. Italy must choose now if it wants to solve the problems and be protagonist in this field or stay out of it, losing also this train of technological-industrial development. Otherwise we will have no solution, ladies and gentlemen, except to remain attached to Putin's tube, to continue to go to Africa between Mozambique and Congo in search of oil and to offend citizens who have repeatedly shown how, thanks to the formation of movements and committees, we can avoid the loss of territories in defense of the local economies. The impoverishment of the planet and the immense consumption of natural resources are directly proportional to the increase of the so-called poor population, which does not have access to resources; social inequality, the struggle for survival, the consumerist struggle for resources have always been the cause of conflicts and we must remember at this moment what is happening in Gaza, the silent Syrian war or the Ukrainian situation. With this new parliamentary action, with a view to truly sustainable development, we can achieve all this and we of the 5 Star Movement Group will try to be protagonists of this change. [[Applause from Senator Ciampolillo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u134	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, what the Industry and Environment Commissions bring to the attention of the House this evening, thanks to the work of the two rapporteurs - Senators Marinello and Cucchetti - and the cooperation of the members of the two Commissions and the effective cooperation of the Agriculture Commission, is a decree-law that sets out some important measures on some strategic fronts to try to simplify, support and innovate the country system. Agriculture, the environment, energy, small and medium-sized enterprises are - in fact - sides of the same coin: a sustainable, balanced and inclusive development, able, on the one hand, to restart an economy in crisis for a long time, and, on the other, to indicate sustainability as a paradigm in which to place choices on future development. As colleagues Fabbri and Pignedoli have already reported before me on the text proposed by the Government, which has well collaborated with the Commissions, thanks to the availability of Deputy Minister De Vicenti, undersecretaries Degani and Scalfarotto, Olivero and Pizzetti, whom I thank, the Democratic Party Groups, in the committees involved, have also worked constructively and cooperatively with the other political forces, to propose improvements, corrections and integrations in any case consistent with the objectives of the measure, to strengthen their ability to affect the competitiveness of the Country. For reasons of time I want to focus here only on the work done on environmental issues, on the one hand aimed at strengthening environmental control and protection and, on the other hand, on promoting a system of prevention of disruption and the maintenance of constructive support for the development of renewable sources in our country. The responsibilities, modalities and thresholds of pollutants and the public actors to be involved in sampling and characterisation activities have been better defined and the period available to Commissioners for the completion of interventions has been extended from 12 to 18 months. An important step forward has been taken on the issue of the prevention of hydrogeological risk: since 2015 the resources allocated to the financing of mitigation actions will be excluded from the Stability Pact, on the basis of a programme agreement to be signed between the Ministry of the Environment and the regions concerned, which will have to provide for the co-financing quota. A specific and in-depth work has been carried out on the so-called green energy, about which Mr Girotto spoke, after listening to the numerous requests received during the dozens of hours of hearings that preceded the examination of the text itself. I want to make this clear, however, to the Democratic Party, to the Government that supports, and also to many members of the Democratic Party Group: on this issue, there can be no unfounded and ideological accusations of being a fossil government or a fossil party, because, before and more than other political forces, they have proposed, supported and developed at every institutional level the change of pace in the energy system and have publicly denounced, before today, the continuous corrections in the course of work perpetrated in recent years, much more serious than those that Decree-Law No 91 amended proposes as obstacles to the development of a escape from dependence on fossil fuels towards a new energy democracy. We have worked in a frank and transparent confrontation with the Government to improve the text on this point and the result is certainly a step forward in favour of the thousands of businesses, citizens and final consumers. Basically, the way in which companies will be able to contribute to the requested contribution, with different percentages and divided into groups on the basis of the voltage of the plants, has been revised, with effect from 1 January 2015, the elimination of the system charges charged to solar photovoltaic plants with a power of not more than 3 kilowatts. The aim of the standard is to promote and support, albeit partially, self-consumption. We had also proposed raising the threshold from 200 to 500 kilowatts for the exchange on the spot, as well as the exclusion of local authorities and their participating companies, owners of photovoltaic plants, from the impact of the so-called incentive spread, meeting with the support of the Government, but, unfortunately, not that of Article 81 of the Constitution. On this, however, we will present an agenda to request a specific commitment from the Government. With regard to measures to improve the energy efficiency of school buildings, an agenda was drawn up to include interventions and expenditure incurred in the treatment of asbestos and the derogation from the Stability Pact. It was also planned with an agenda that energy costs for rail transport should be maintained. In order to counter the phenomenon of polluting spills at sea, the criminal liability of the owner of the transported cargo has been increased, with the abolition of the word "grave" in the crime of dole or guilt (the so-called carts of the sea). Then I add that he was the leader of the Democratic Party, in 13a. Commission, Mr Caleo, to propose to the Government a rule that, while challenging European competition rules, indicated the way to ban permanently non-biodegradable plastic bags and support a production chain of bio-shoppers. Further changes have been made to the decree-law by improving it, but I do not quote in their entirety for short. They are proposals and changes that give the figure of a serious reformist commitment in the field of the environment, a non-ideological commitment, but serious and responsible. I think it is appropriate to conclude my speech with some consideration on a subject which has been the subject of many misunderstandings in recent weeks and even in these hours, ideological positions, which have unfortunately been subject to insults, insults and falsehoods. I am, of course, talking about the matter of live calls, in addition to a couple of amendments that have been made to Law 157 of 1992 with our amendments. After years of ideological controversy, in fact, yesterday the Commissions 10a and 13a, thanks to the collaboration of the Government, the European Affairs Service, the Minister of the Environment, and a long and extensive consultation (which took place before), which allowed to collect the contributions of all the sensibilities that the stakeholders expressed, which found a balanced and advanced synthesis in the approved measure, in Article 16, in which they combine stories and traditions that involve hundreds of thousands of citizens in our country, with the right need to operate with scientific rigour and paying attention to animal welfare by those who hold and use live calls. By changing the text proposed by the Government on this point, with the new norm our country aligns itself with Europe (France and Spain, for example) and the scientific world also for the use of the tools to be used that can only be selective and non-harmful, like those used in other European countries, conform to Annex IV of the so-called birds directive, with the involvement of the staff ISPRA that will have the duty of training, authorization and control. This confirms the importance and role of ISPRA and research which, unfortunately, is not understood by the most extremist fringes, either side or the other. The decree-law that is proposed to the Assembly for the conversion puts Italy at the vanguard, without equivocals, fixing the tasks and the role of the institutions, the Government, the Regions and the Provinces, which will have all the tools to overcome delays, limits and some "furbizia" in the construction of the databases and to define effective and immediate control tools, that will be fixed in a government decree. Finally, with regard to the other changes concerning nutrients, we have simply excluded this species from the protection assumptions included in Law 157 of 1992, since it is an invasive alien species among the 15,000 indicated by the European Union, which the European Parliament has asked each Member State to limit because it is dangerous for biodiversity. I would like to remind you that the damage caused by the dens of these and other animals has been recognized among the concauses of the collapse of the banks of the river Secchia, which produced the flood of 17 January last in the province of Modena. I believe that on this subject we are not in the presence of any barbarity, no painful page, but only of punctual and not ideological interventions, because on these issues the history that we leave behind, including referendum, teaches us that we need more seriousness, greater correctness and a sense of responsibility rather than stirring up ghosts and making ideological terrorism. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marinello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u136	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u137	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to join in the thanks that have been given to officials and those people who have worked side by side with the Commissioners of Commissions 10a and 13a in a real tour de force that has engaged us at night. Only this morning, or rather at dawn, did part of the work that was waiting for us to come to this House to approve these important measures that colleagues before me have explained very well. I would like to focus on the frankness and the tight manner in which this debate took place and to raise to the representative of the Government a series of reflections, which will have to be the subject of future actions and future measures. In particular, I would like to recall the work that has been done in the Commission, coordinated by the two Heads of Group and led very well by the Presidents of the Commission, who were also rapporteurs for the measures. I would like to thank Mr Tomaselli and Mr Caleo for the way in which the many initiatives aimed at improving, or rather increasing, some of the measures already contained in this decree have been coordinated. Of course, a decree-law covering a great many subjects has created some difficulty in the action of the Commissioners and in coordinating the work of the amendments. Many improvements have taken place during the work of the Commissioners, with the contribution of all the parliamentary groups. In particular, as a bell, I would like to point out that we have worked on Article 4, which inserts within the decree the brand DOP Campania for buffalo mozzarella, providing provisions aimed at greater rigidity in the traceability of milk, as stricter sanctions for producers who do not comply with these rules. A solution has also been found, with a spatial separation, for the processing of buffalo mozzarella DOP inside the same factory where products with different milk are produced, to meet the needs of the same breeding and processing companies of buffalo milk. These were the starting points around which to find the balance needed to improve this brand that Campania exports to the world and that Italy represents as excellence in the agro-food sector. On environmental issues, Mr Vaccari, who preceded me in his speech, has very well explained the measures that go to loosen the Stability Pact for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk for the regions and - hopefully - also for the municipalities. With reference to Article 14, I would like to stress how work has been done in the Commission so that the waste management plant in Campania can be improved through a number of initiatives. The text that was presented to us by the Government started from the realization of a thermo-energy plant in the Salerno area, in the province of Salerno. We called for an improvement on this subject, trying to ensure that the Commissioner was not based on a ban that was already published in 2010, but that he could better study not only the separate collection flows (which in the meantime have certainly evolved in a better direction), but above all the technologies, in order to arrive at a better evaluation, without prejudice to the typical tasks of a Commissioner ad acta, who must complete the plant necessary to complete the integrated waste cycle. Mr De Vincenti, representative of the Government, I would like to focus in particular on one issue on which we have already spoken in this House during the conversion into law of the decree-law for Italy. The G7100 agenda was adopted, with which we raised a number of problems. You yourself gave the opinion in favour of the inclusion of that agenda. What was the problem we raised and raised in the Commission, to which I continue to raise your attention? It is the theme of insurance, of car liability. We know that this is a matter of law enforcement: each of us is required to move with our own car with a civil liability policy. It is an obligation to which the State calls every citizen and to which every citizen must correspond. Obviously, as a legal obligation, it is necessary that the market be regulated in a more or less uniform way, in order to avoid unequal treatment between citizens of the same Republic, perhaps in different territories. It is precisely in this regard, in hearings held in the Commission, but in comparison with the Government, I have focused my attention on the body which then has to control this tariff system, which is VATSS. Well, the 2013 VATS report shows us that the frequency of claims in the period 2004-2013 has decreased by 30.9% overall and in the three-year period 2011-2013 this decrease was 16.5%. Among other things, the passenger car segment decreased from 8.1 to 6.6 percent of the number of accidents and for motorcycles and mopeds the decrease was even twice that for the period 2004-2013. In the three years 2011-2013, the whole sector recorded an increase in the average total cost of claims from EUR 4.435 to EUR 4.711, representing more than 6.2 percent. Of course, this increase is due to that rather strange and twisted mechanism that is that of reserves, against which I believe that we have intervened by providing, in this decree, that insurance companies can lend to certain categories of companies. We then worked in the Commission because we would like virtuous motorists in the same national territory to have equal treatment with the whole national territory. This means, Deputy Minister De Vincenti, that an insured person who has his car insured in the city of Portici, therefore in the province of Naples, and for ten years he has had no claims must pay a prize more or less corresponding to that of Senator Tomaselli, who in the province of Brindisi where he lives has the same rights and duties. In order to ease this rigidity of the market, we imagined working on amendments, and then on an agenda, given the haste and inadmissibility of these amendments. I have to say that this agenda has recorded a great deal of consensus and around it, in the debate in the Commission and with Deputy Minister De Vincenti, representative of the Government, it has come to the idea that the whole regulation of this sector will probably take place in September with a competition decree which should also include the resolution of these opacityes which create a number of difficulties. I must say, in fairness, that Mr Tomaselli, as the first signatory, and I, as co-signator, have presented a draft law that really wants to intervene on this area and on this issue. We are also engaged in these hours with a very close debate, in a confrontation in some harsh ways, to modify the bicameral system and we are intervening on the Constitution. Well, dear Deputy Minister De Vincenti, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end my speech by reading Article 3 of the Constitution: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person..................................................................................................................... Here, I would like, as prescribed in the second paragraph of this article, to guarantee this task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of economic and social order that to date the insurances in the Neapolitan territory are placing to the insured citizens, who are virtuous as well as the motorists of other territorial areas of the Country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marinello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u138	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u141	D'ADDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a point that I think is important with regard to some statements made on social networks made by Mr Roberta Lombardi of the 5 Star Movement, about the fact that some Senators of PD thinkers would have taken part in the Quirinale march for constitutional reforms. I would like to say, with regard to this problem, that surely all PD senators are free thinkers, and that is precisely why they do not always agree on everything. But equally certain is the fact that they do not make any march on the Quirinale, or in Rome, and I would add that they were present in the Chamber - it has been verified by me - to follow the incardination of the competitiveness decree, of which we have so far followed the speeches. I would therefore like to stress that, as far as we are concerned, we do not make any marches on the Quirinale. While we remain free to think and have our convictions, perhaps even in dissent from the Group, we are certainly always present here and we do not allow anyone to use our work and our ideas to exploit them for other purposes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u142	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-291.ana.u143	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday 25 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.31 a.m.
