ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 4 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, I invite you to a moment of attention, please. Last week a large area of Gargano was hit by devastating alluvial events that caused victims and considerable damage to the housing and economic structures of the territory. It has been just a month since this House commemorated the victims of the disaster that struck the Treviso and once again we find ourselves mourning the loss of human lives and expressing closeness and solidarity to populations severely marked by emergencies related to the hydrogeological disaster. This umpteenth misfortune again calls for reflection on the need to address with urgency and determination the issue of prevention and the resources intended to deal with events that have become too frequent or, if I may, even ordinary. In memory of the victims and as a sign of closeness to the population of Gargano, I invite you to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u7	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I should like to make a very brief comment. Senator Franca Falcucci disappeared last Thursday. She was in this House from 1968 to 1992. She was Deputy National Secretary of Christian Democracy and Minister of Education for a long time. I would like to remind you not only of the many human qualities and the profound moral rigour, but also of your commitment to the inclusion of disabled children in the school. He did very serious studies on this and was able to govern the difficult process of integrating disabled children into the Italian school. It seemed right that this Senate devote a few moments to the memory of a certainly good, honest and decent person. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 25 September. This afternoon will take place the replies of the speakers and of the Government on the bill of European delegation 2013 and of European law 2013, without proceeding to any vote. The examination of the measures will continue from tomorrow afternoon's sitting. As already announced, at 6 p.m. the Minister of the Interior will be informed on the subject of international terrorism of religious origin. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. Tomorrow morning the Assembly will not hold a sitting in conjunction with the meeting of Parliament in a joint sitting, convened at 9 a.m. for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday, starting at 10.30 a.m., the Minister for Economic Development will make an information on the economic impact for national companies in relation to the trade sanctions of the Russian Federation against the European Union. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. Next week, at its meeting on Tuesday 16 September, beginning at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make a statement on the lines of implementation of the government programme. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. Also next week, we will examine the bill of account and settlement, the bill of defamation, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the internal budget and the Senate statement. During the afternoon session on Thursday 18 September, the question time will be held with the Minister of Defence. The schedule of the week from 23 to 25 September provides for the discussion of the decree-law extending international missions, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the discussion of the draft law delegation in the matter of work, if concluded by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration into the programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2014. - Drawing of Law No. 1119 and related - Amendments to the law of 8 February 1948, No. 47, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the matter of defamation, defamation by means of the press or by other means of dissemination, insult and conviction of the plaintiff (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u10	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the agenda of the Assembly until 25 September 2014: [[Wednesday, September 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following joint discussion: - Drawing of law no. 1519 - Law of European delegation 2013 - second semester (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number); - Drawing of law no. 1533 - European law 2013- bis (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Information of the Minister for Economic Development on the economic impact for national enterprises, in relation to the commercial sanctions of the Russian Federation against the European Union (Thursday 11, 10.30) Thursday 11 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 11 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Parliament is convened at 9 a.m. on Wednesday 10 September for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The senators will vote first. [[Tuesday, September 16 pom. h. 15-20 - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the lines of implementation of the government programme - Legislative drawings no. 1594 and 1595 - Report 2013 and Settlement 2014 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Draft law n. 1119 and related - Defamation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Documents VIII, nn. 3 and 4 - Internal budget and statement of the Senate Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, September 18 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of Defence]] Amendments to draft law no. 1594 and 1595 (Report 2013 and Settlement 2014) and to the bill n. 1119 and related (Defamation) must be submitted by 5 p.m. on Monday 15 September. [[Tuesday, September 23 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... decree-law n. 109 - Extension of international missions (It falls on 3 October 2014) (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1428 and related - Delegation of work (final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, September 25 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n.109, extension of international missions) and to the bill n. 1428 (Delega lavoro) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for joint discussion of bill No 1519 (Law of European Delegation 2013 - second half) and draft law No 1533 (European Law 2013- bis) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 37' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 29' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1594 and 1595 (Report 2013 and Settlement) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 109 - extension of international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h...6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1519 and 1533, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 4 September the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a suspensive matter was rejected and the joint general debate took place. I call Senator Floris, rapporteur on draft law No 1519.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u12	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the introductory reports were presented at the last sitting and the general discussion was held on the draft European law 2013- bis and the draft law of the European delegation 2013 - the second half of the year. In his reply, I would also like to welcome the criticisms made by my colleagues, Mr Candiani, Mr Divina, Mr Liuzzi, Mr Mauro, Mr Mussini, Mr Panizza and Mr Orellana. I agree not so much with the analysis of the content of the delegation law, but with the analysis of the long and excessively dilated times with which the law was presented to the Chambers for its approval. While it is true that Law No 234 of 2012 allows the Government to submit to the Chambers by 31 July each year the draft delegation law referred to the current year, it is also true that the measure under consideration was presented to the Chamber of Deputies on 22 November 2013 and subsequently fired in Montecitorio on 10 June of this year. I am aware that the reasons that delayed the presentation of the Senate Act 1519 are also to be found in the late formation of the Letta Government, but I consider the application of this law to be urgent and urgent. We have already said that the law of European delegation 2013 - second semester delegates the Government to the transposition of numerous directives and that the bill of European delegation 2014 next presentation to the Senate has already been approved by the Council of Ministers. In this regard, I would like to give my warning to the Commission, which is called upon to be more efficient in presenting the 2014 European delegation law, with times in line with those of Europe, in order to allow a proper discussion at the parliamentary assemblies, without today's emerging climate. In the general discussion many profiles have been touched on, on which both I and my colleague Cardinals are replying briefly. On immigration policies, Senators Candiani, Panizza, Orellana and Liuzzi, we have tried to propose balanced solutions and provided a delegation for the transposition of directives through the preparation of a single text and the transposition of certain infringements detected by the Chamber of Deputies. The focal point remains the greater collaboration on the part of all the European States towards those who suffer, like Italy, a strong migratory pressure, due to the increase of tensions on many, perhaps too many territories of the Mediterranean area and the Middle East. The agreement reached with European Union Commissioner Cecilia Malmström on greater involvement of Frontex in the control of the Mediterranean seems to me to go in the right direction. What we see here, however, is the need to bring the internal order into line with the European order. On this basis, the European delegation law provides not only for a delegation for the transposition of directives no. 32 and 33 of 2013 to be exercised by 2015, but also, in accordance with Article 7, a delegation for the preparation of a single text on immigration possibly shared by the European Commission. We take advantage of the European Semester precisely to lay the foundations for the single text to be widely shared. That is why I believe that Europe's reform drive is important and it will be up to the delegated legislator to follow it up quickly. During the general discussion the subject of bureaucracy and constraints was raised by Senator Candiani, to whom I recall that it is already inherent in the prohibition of gold plating. In article 32, paragraph 1, letter c), of law n. 234 of 2012, in fact, the Government is bound to ensure that the acts transposing directives of the European Union cannot provide for the introduction or maintenance of levels of regulation higher than those required by the directives themselves. Article 1 of the draft delegation law expressly refers to it and therefore the problem, at the stage of concrete transposition, should not be raised. We also bear in mind that in the transposition phase, should a burden not provided for in a directive be included - even by mistake or forgot - the particular constitutional mechanism of the relationship between the delegation law and the delegated decree will lead to a constitutional illegitimacy of the additional burden not provided for in the directive. Although this was introduced recently, in December 2012, I do not believe that the positive effects will be manifested. The issue of the transferability of pension rights (in particular raised by the Divine Senator) or the capital accumulated by the workers I believe can be addressed both from a European perspective and from an internal perspective, at the moment immediately after the application of this law. However, an agenda has been put forward which requires proper consideration and which we will be dealing with shortly. Finally, I would like to point out the constructive attitude of all political forces in examining the two draft laws in 14a. The Commission, as a demonstration of the fact that - as Mr Liuzzi has pointed out in general discussion - partisan interests must come after those of the country. In this spirit and with the desire to achieve a reduction in infringements, we have examined the Act of the Senate No. 1519, which contains the transposition of European obligations, for the fulfilment of which we are very late, not because of the Senate. The House is therefore invited to adopt a follow-up attitude so that the law can succeed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u13	I call Senator Cardinali, rapporteur on draft law No 1533.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, fellow senators and senators... [[Brusio.]] I apologise, Mr President, but if this buzz does not diminish behind my back, I cannot speak: it is not possible, it seems to me a matter of respect for the places. I would like to ask whether colleagues who are right behind me can speak a little more slowly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u15	You are right, Senator: I ask colleagues to interrupt the huts and discussions, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u16	CARDINALI, rapporteur on draft law No 1533. Thank you, Mr President. Introductory reports and the general discussion on the draft European law 2013-a and the draft law of the European delegation 2013 - second half were held at the last session. These are two important measures, as my colleague, Mr Floris, said, which place Italy in a situation of greater compliance with the European order and also give the measure of the commitment of the Government and Parliament in the Italian Presidency of the Union. The draft European law 2013- bis resolves numerous infringement procedures and EU Pilot cases with a substantial approach that gives way to close many disputes, thus allowing Italy to recover in the Community scoreboard. The 2013 European delegation law - the second half of the year - likewise, as my colleague Senator Floris has already said, provides the delegation for the transposition of many directives. Following the adoption of the two texts by the European Union's Political Commission and after the general discussion, the House is now about to close the debate with the vote on the amendments, confirming once again the Europeanist vocation of this Senate, where it has nevertheless tried to speed up the time for the adoption of European laws, which is a key card for the important negotiations that will open in Europe in the coming weeks. In the joint general debate, many profiles have been touched on, on which both myself and my colleague, Mr Floris, have been able to respond, although obviously in a synthetic way. One of the issues raised - in particular, with different ways and approaches, by Senator Candiani, of the League, and by Senator Mirabelli, of the PD - concerns the overlap between articles of the draft European law 2013 - second semester and decree competitiveness. We cannot speak - as I have heard in this House - of an act of arrogance on the part of the Government in wanting to exonerate the parliamentary function and, in particular, the role of the 14th Parliament. The Commission, so much so that we all - the Commission and the Government, as I said at the last sitting - shared the urgency of providing, on some limited issues, precisely to shorten the time, and we adapted accordingly, using precisely the instrument of the decree-law. I would like to remind you that we often complain about the timing. The fact that this measure has remained in the Chamber of Deputies for several months has caused not only the addition of many articles, but also the need on our part to recover in some way that lost time. And without any controversy I make a joke about it: even with the provision in our examination we have touched with hand how urgent a reform of bicameralism can be. This is not an act of villainy, therefore, but only the assessment, shared by the Commission, of speeding up the process of certain procedures, taking into account the fact that the decree made possible, being immediately operational, the implementation of important initiatives. With regard to the issue of the civil liability of magistrates, mentioned in the speeches by Mr Candiani, Mr Mussini and Mr Mirabelli, I would like to point out that this is a general issue which goes beyond the limited scope of European law. Even the limited issue of the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice - Mediterranean Ferries - which could have - only this - found room in European law - will find a more complete implementation in the bill approved by the Government and next parliamentary examination in the seat of the Commission Justice. It is not, therefore, a question of having removed a subject, but of having given it the right place and destination in the debate and also an appropriate instrument. Certainly, however, the maintenance of the text that had arrived to us from the Chamber posed important problems of keeping from an orderly point of view. It was not only the right place, therefore, but also a subject related to the content. It is no coincidence that it has been deleted as a result of the tabling of amendments. In this regard, without making controversy and in a friendly tone, I remind my colleague Candiani - almost always present in the 14th edition of the The Commission - which no one has threatened - therefore calms everyone, because it is here, close to me and is well - or blackmailed Senator Cociancich to submit the amendment by the Democratic Party. I repeat, he has suffered neither threats nor blackmail, and at this point I should have said that the same thing the Government should have done with the colleagues of SEL and of the 5 Star Movement, not only with the Democratic Party, because the deletion of Article 30 (or rather ex Article 30, because today he no longer has this numbering, having diminished the articles) was also presented by other Groups of the Senate. On the number of pending infringements, I remember the interventions of Senators Candiani, Mussini, Panizza and Fucksia. [[Brusio]] President. - I beg your pardon, but please call my fellow Members to attention, because it is hard to speak with this buzz, even if they are rested after the weekend. [[Call the president back.]] I can only agree with my colleagues who have rightly stressed the need to significantly reduce the number of pending infringements, especially during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Without unnecessary controversy, but rather taking into account - I also want to remember, as Senator Fucksia did - the constructive climate that has always lived (and not only during the examination of this measure) in 14a I call on the Commission to ensure that these two measures can be dismissed quickly, in order to enable the Government to notify Brussels of the final adoption of legislation to close the infringements that are in evidence, thereby helping to further reduce their number. We always say that, but it is done through the approval of acts such as the one we are discussing, so it is right to repeat it and confirm it here. In a Europe that sees us as actors in the legislative and political dialogue with the other Member States, effective negotiating action can be greatly facilitated by compliance with the requirements. With reference to the question of agro-food products posed by Senator Mussini and Senator Mauro, European law has sought to provide solutions that would support Italian productions, with reference both to the rule on the minimum content of orange juice in drinks and to the rule on olive oil, to protect not only producers but also consumers. They are minimal but important pieces, especially at a time when the agri-food sector risks being severely compromised by the blockade on imports of European agricultural products, adopted by the Russian Federation on 6 August. We hope that there will be a rapid solution to the general political issue of relations between the European Union and Russia, so that the import ban can be lifted. It is clear, however, that any measures taken in the field of agriculture must be taken in an awareness of the integration of the markets and the connections existing between European States and non-European States. We therefore need to be careful about the European negotiations - and this was also mentioned in Senator Mauro's speech - which relate to treaties with third countries, so as to prevent the introduction of rules which greatly disadvantage national productions. On the topic of road haulage, raised by my colleague Panizza (of which we have in fact received a solicitation), we hope that with regard to the issues on cabotage will be introduced of the temperaments that mitigate the strong pressures on the Italian workers, that they find themselves to suffer the competition of the workers of other Member States in which the cost of the job is enormously less. It will certainly not be easy, because it is the same European legislation that in some cases favours these forms of work integration. We have faith, however, in the work of the Government, which - let us remember - will have to follow the agenda at the first signature of Senator Panizza accepted in the Commission. With regard to the subject of Parliament's participation in European decisions (the Treaty and urged by Senator Mussini and Senator Mauro) and the risk of a prevalence of bureaucracy in the writing of the rules, I fully agree that action should be taken. In this regard, I would remind you that Law No 234 of 2012 provides the two Chambers with all the tools to intervene in the formation of the European decision, thus influencing their choices. With the Lisbon Treaty, important matters have been given over to European competence. At the same time, however, Parliaments' powers of direction and control have also been increased in the ascending phase. Perhaps, therefore, (and this is a wish and a request) the Italian Parliament could exercise these powers even less backwardly in some cases - as British or Danish Members do for example - also and above all by imposing strict negotiating constraints on the Government at the stage of negotiations. So now we have the instruments, senators and fellow senators: we just have to use them quickly and effectively. That is why I call for a speedy approach, because Europe is calling us to assume a further responsibility, especially now that Italy is responsible for the presidency. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u17	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Cardinali, the rapporteur, Mr Floris, and all the senators who have spoken in general debate, in a debate full of ideas, questions and requests for further information. That is precisely why, Mr President, it will allow me to try to respond point by point to all the senators who have spoken. Allow me, too, to thank the excellent work that the Commission 14a has done: a constructive, very timely and quality work, which, among other things, has also improved, in some respects, the content of European law 2013-a. I would therefore like to thank all the members of the Commission and President Chiti. Of course, timely work has been done - it is indeed necessary to proceed very quickly in the final adoption of the 2013 delegation law (and in a moment I will explain why, even if it has been said by the rapporteur) - and quality work, because objectively the measure has come out improved by the work of the Commission. This is the work that the Government wishes to do always with Parliament and the Senate in particular. We are convinced that Italy's European policy, above all - as the rapporteur, Mrs Cardinali, has just mentioned - after the Treaty of Lisbon and in the light of Law No 234 of 2012, is increasingly a system policy, which is being done together, the Government and Parliament. The government - and I confirm this to the rapporteur, Mr Floris - is certainly ready to discuss everyday life with Parliament. It is clear, in fact, that the more we receive clear and precise indications, important guidelines from Parliament on the major negotiations in Europe, the more we can assert the position and weight of Italy. In a negotiation it is very important to have the positive negotiating weight of a clear and clear political orientation of Parliament. We are therefore fully available as a government and we hope that Parliament will make full use of its prerogatives both in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon (I am referring in particular to the protocol on national parliaments) and in particular in the light of Law No 234 of 2012. This is also an important effort in terms of credibility. It is clear that we are working and we must work; we are also based on the good work done by those who preceded us, by the last governments that preceded us, in order to strengthen the credibility and influence of Italy. You have said this in many and I certainly agree: the credibility and influence of Italy depends also on the timeliness, quality and the way in which Italy transposes European commitments (which are certainly not external obligations, but the product of legislative and negotiating work in which Italy participates), and on the way in which it also responds to sentences and infringement procedures. The issue of credibility and influence is very important. I will recall some figures, because the speeches of some senators in my opinion were not fully up-to-date with respect to the work done by the government of which I am a member. We want, and have begun to do so, to become increasingly difficult negotiators, i.e. demanding negotiators. To be difficult and demanding you must have very clear what national interest you want to defend. To be clear about the national interest, it is very important - I know that Senator Mauro has arrived, so that I can respond to him too - that the Government clearly knows what Parliament's position is on certain major negotiating issues. We want to be difficult and demanding negotiators, but we also want to be good performers: when the negotiation has been concluded, when the national interest has been defended, when a measure has been voted, we need to improve the quality and timeliness of implementation. These are the two coordinates around which this Government has moved from the beginning. I said demanding negotiators, and I think you have noticed that some positions have been put forward at European level and some negotiations have started, not necessarily very consensual at the moment, but it is clear that difficult negotiations cannot be consensual at the start. At the same time we also want to work on good execution. As far as the figures are concerned, I would remind you that since this Government began to work on infringement procedures (a subject that was raised by Senator Candiani, who I do not now see in the Chamber but will read the answer, and by Senator Fucksia), the number of infringements on 1 March this year was 120, and not 104 as has been said. So on 1 March this year we had 120 open infringement procedures, while at the moment there are 101. Am I satisfied? No, I'm not, because I think we'll be when the number of infringements approaches zero. I explain why I said that it will come closer to zero and not that it must be zero: because infringement procedures, colleagues, are not sentences of conviction, but litigation: they are like cases in court. And if the Italian Republic, the Member State of the EU, is convinced of the goodness of its positions, it is right to keep the infringement procedure open, it is right to go to the Court of Justice, it is right to claim the decision of that Court. And it is not uncommon, but it happens, that the European Commission is wrong and the Member State is right. We must therefore continue to reduce the number of infringements, bringing them almost close to zero (underline of the "almost" section). I repeat that at 1 March this year there were 120 infringement procedures, while at the moment there are 101. The measure that we are going to adopt (i.e. the European law 2013- bis) was presented by the previous government, and you have recalled the reasons why there has been a delay in the House, but the text before us has little to do with the original text, and this is mainly thanks to the work you have done. Certainly the Government also intervened on that measure, but it was enriched by parliamentary work first in the House and then in the Senate. With European law 2013- bis we resolve eight infringement procedures and 15 EU Pilot cases; we respect the deadlines of four EU regulations; we adapt the Italian law to a preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on public procurement; we implement directly Directive 2013/61 expired on 1 January 2014. I would also like to mention the specific points on which you have worked very fruitfully: the subject of return, the subject of doctors' working time, the subject of the European Certificate of Succession, the theme of fruit drinks. On all these points (including the freedom to provide services, supervision of financial actors, the issue of safety at work, the issue of competition in contracts, the issue of competition and the distribution of fuels, the important issue of equal opportunities between men and women, the issue of fishing and the issue of late payment), you have done a very important job together with the work done earlier by the House. These are issues of great importance, linked to the priorities of our Presidency and also to the European economic policy approach of this Government. Among these, I recall, in particular, the theme (which will be addressed and resolved, when you want to vote, will be approved and the European law 2013- bis will enter into force) of delays in the payment of public administration debts to companies. It is a matter of great importance and on which the Government, in the person in particular of the President of the Council, has committed itself since the speech in which it asked for confidence in this Senate. There were few detailed and specific points of ordinary European policy that he recalled, but he mentioned the issue of the payment of public debt. And we are giving a very clear response to the peremptority of payment deadlines; with European law 2013- bis Italy will be in order, from the point of view of the full implementation of the Directive on late payments, because it is clear the peremptority of payment deadlines: 30 days or, in some cases that are exactly the cases mentioned by the directive, 60 days. This point is clearly linked to the European policy priority of our Government. We have introduced a system which will prevent these delays from happening again in the future. It is a system of which the legal component is certainly the article of the European law 2013- bis I am talking about, but which also relates to operational measures. I am thinking of the electronic platform, which is already in operation and in which 21 000 central, regional and local authorities are registered; I am thinking of the negotiation that we are starting with the European Commission on the infringement procedure which the outgoing Commission has opened with a letter on the point. This issue has been the subject of negotiations, including recent ones. On 30 July last we had a meeting with the European Commission in which we stressed the excellent work that the Senate was doing on the point of peremptory terms. If you read also the Document of economy and finance you see the relevance of the topic of payment, since the various governments that have succeeded, and especially the Government of President Renzi, have allocated 56 billion to resolve definitively the question of the debts of the public administration. It is therefore clear that we want to proceed quickly. It is equally clear that, as long as this legal piece is missing, that is, until European law 2013- bis is adopted, we will have an open dispute with the European Commission, on a point on which we agree we need to intervene. On the subject of the delegation law 2013, I recall once again the position of the Government: we hope for a definitive approval in this House. We hope that the delegation law 2013 will come into force immediately because we must fight (and we must all do so together, Government and Parliament) an issue on which there is no justification for our country: this is the issue of open infringement procedures for failure to transpose. One thing is to have an infringement procedure because there is a dispute with the European Commission, one thing is to go into infringement because there are no directives that help produce, draw up, negotiate, vote, and then, due to administrative delays or legislative delays, there are a number of infringement procedures that are opened for non-transposition. This is the main reason why we want to move forward with the final adoption of the European delegation law 2013. Precisely because we believe that we need to proceed quickly in the work of reducing - yes to zero - the infringements opened for failure to transpose, the Government has already adopted the law of European delegation 2014 and has already transmitted it to the State-Regions Conference and - as I had already announced in the Commission and as from agreements with the various political groups - will begin in the Senate the discussion of the law of European delegation 2014. Therefore, all those measures and further acts that the senators want to see transposed in advance and more quickly can be discussed and eventually incorporated into the law of European delegation 2014. Meanwhile, by delegation of the President of the Council, I have already convened the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs to work also on European law 2014. This is the "Semester 2014" package - I address, in particular, Senator Candiani - which I had announced and which I confirm, on which we are working. This package consists of two 2013 measures, enriched by the parliamentary work and that of the Government; the delegation law 2014, which we have already approved in the Council of Ministers; the European law 2014, which will be presented in September, and that part of the competitiveness decree that necessarily (given the long time we had accumulated) will have to contain some provisions, especially in the environmental field, because in the meantime the procedure has become worse and it seemed absolutely necessary to intervene urgently. This is the "Semester 2014" package, which I had announced, of which I confirm the existence and on which we are working together today. Senator Candiani was always concerned about the balance within the Government with those who make or do not make European politics. I would remind you that, for the first time, the Presidency of the Council is also responsible for coordinating the six-month Presidency: this has never happened in all the presidencies of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, because in the other twelve times it had always been entrusted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since Senator Candiani has expressed a concern about this, I confirm that for the first time the Presidency of the Council also has the coordination of the European Semester. Another accusation made by various senators and, again, in particular by Senator Candiani is that of a total absence, so far, of results of European politics of the Renzi Government. I remember only a few of them with regard to the specific activity carried out in recent months. First of all, I stress the success of the method. For the first time, in fact, as a Government we have asked and successfully obtained at European level that before discussing appointments they should formally identify, with the approval of all the Heads of State and Government, the strategic priorities around which the European Council should have appointed the President of the Commission and around which the President of the European Commission should have undertaken to present himself before Parliament. This was the case, because the Agenda for the Union in times of change - the so-called Agenda Van Rompuy - first anticipated the priorities of the six-month period; we were able to incorporate virtually all the priorities of the Italian Presidency at the end of June. This is a political document on which President Juncker has committed himself. I recall that the additional public and private investment plan - said President Juncker - of EUR 300 billion is a priority found in the document that the President of the Council sent to the President of the European Council Van Rompuy at the end of June. That was an Italian proposal, strongly supported by France, which today is a major priority on which the President of the European Commission is working. I also think it is important to mention the appointment of the number two of the European Commission: Federica Mogherini was appointed High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security of the European Union and Vice President of the European Commission. This is the most important post since the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. We are also working to implement that part of the Van Rompuy Strategic Agenda, which indicates the will and commitment of all Heads of State and Government (on which President Juncker is also committed) to making the most of the flexibility included in the existing rules, making the best possible use of flexibility in the application of the Stability and Growth Pact. This is the subject of the negotiations that we are continuing in these days as well. I believe that I have also responded to the intervention of Senator Mussini, who referred to that part of the articles deleted and included in the Competitiveness Decree, especially in the field of the environment: this has happened because in the meantime the infringement procedure had become much worse. With regard to our attitude, I confirm the willingness, willingness and interest of the Government to make full use of the contents of Law 234 of 2012. Among other things, those who speak to you are not entirely alien to that law, the result of the work of all the political groups of the past legislature. As far as the government's action is concerned, we are fully implementing a law that had not been implemented. We have activated the European cores in all the Ministries, we have reactivated the Interministerial Committee for the European Union, we have implemented the rules on seconded national experts. From the government's point of view, we are fully implementing a law that we consider essential for a substantial improvement in the way Italy makes European politics. Senator, I confirm that we are also fully prepared to make the most of this opportunity with regard to relations between the Government and Parliament. Various speeches have been made on the subject of the civil liability of judges and has already been mentioned by the rapporteurs. First of all, no one has subjected Senator Cociancich to harassment, who seems to me rather quiet and relaxed at the moment I am speaking and certainly does not look like someone subjected to harassment. I would remind you that that deletion amendment, as has already been said, was voted by the Democratic Party, the 5 Star Movement, the Left Ecology and Freedom. It was therefore a positive and required suppression by many. The Government, in fact, adopted a draft law in the Council of Ministers on 29 August which addresses and resolves the issue in a much more systematic way. This is the part of the measure concerning Italy's conviction by the Court of Justice, which was first referred to in 2006 and then the famous sentence of the Court of Justice in 2011. First of all, we believe that the text should be examined in the appropriate forums, which are primarily the Commission Justice in the context of a debate linked to justice. We need to address this issue in an appropriate forum, which is too important to be dealt with in a horizontal measure which aims solely at closing infringement proceedings with the European Union, such as the one we are discussing here. Secondly, that is another reason, it was necessary to discuss it in a specific measure. In fact, it was necessary to respond to the sentence by creating a single system, which looked both at European Union law and at national law. We cannot develop two types of civil liability of judges: one for violations of EU law and another for violations of national law. The text of the Government with reference to responsibility provides for that one for manifest violation of interpretations of European law and national law of the State; it does not limit it, and is certainly allowed in the light of the sentence, to the judges of last instance but to those of any degree. It also introduces a number of important changes in terms of re-valence, prescription of re-valsa, disciplinary action, elimination of eligibility filters, which certainly deserve debate and deepening in the Justice Commission. I will stop here, because only the points of the Government's bill seem to me to justify an examination by this House in the appropriate fora, which are not those of the European law or of the delegation, but in the examination of a bill on the civil liability of judges. I believe I have replied to Senator Mauro regarding the government's willingness to work with the Senate from the beginning in relation to the content to be enriched, if the Senate considers it, with respect to the text of the delegation law 2014 adopted by the Government. Of course, the Commission is willing to discuss international negotiations with Parliament, and therefore with the Senate. Senator Mauro referred to some of the international negotiations of the past and others that are under way and, for example, I believe that a confrontation with Parliament on the important Transatlantic Partnership on Trade and Investment, which the Government is pursuing as President-in-Office of the European Union, is hoped for by the Government, because there are so many points to be clarified and also so many legends circulating around this Treaty that deserve a parliamentary discussion and deepening. I would just like to mention this example, even though there are other negotiations in progress on which we are certainly prepared to inform you. On the part of some senators, a criticism has been made to the Government, which would not be dealing with the overpower of European technocracy in relation to major European issues. Well, we are also working on the instruments, on the institutions. In fact, it is clear that when we have identified new strategic objectives - which are the ones I have mentioned - it is not the objectives that have to be adapted to the technostructures, but they are the ones that have to adapt to the objectives. That is why we have started negotiations to reform the functioning of the Competitiveness Council, which is one of the councils where it has not been done but European industrial policy should be made, and this is certainly a first response. Reforming that Council and revising its functioning means giving policy the opportunity to guide Europe's decisions in all areas of the so-called real economy (industrial policy, competitiveness, trade marks, trade secrets). This is therefore a first response in the sense of a reaffirmation of the primacy of the political level over technocracy. Just as we have started a debate on the revision of the operation of the only ministerial council provided for in the Treaties, which is the General Affairs Council, which must play a much more important political coordination role, both in the preparation of the work of the European Council and in the implementation of its decisions and conclusions. This is the subject of the informal Council that we held in Milan on 27 August; we are working on this and we trust to achieve positive and important results before the end of our semester. The issue of the horizontal nature of European law and European delegation law was also raised. Yes, they have a horizontal character, and that is why, when you want to go into some very specific issues that have a European dimension but also a great internal importance, it is appropriate not to use horizontal laws but to work on specific channels and themes, on specific legislative proposals. It is precisely the nature of these laws that is horizontal, necessary for the transposition of a whole series of directives to be transposed, as well as to respond with a single measure to so many infringement procedures that are open. In this sense, these laws are a good tool that we have at our disposal. But if there is a need for further study on a subject relating to justice, hunting or safety at work, the vehicle cannot be the law of a European delegation or European law. The measure will have to be a bill on hunting, which opens a wide debate on hunting in this country; a measure on justice or industrial design, because a small European legal dimension is not enough to justify an important debate in measures that, as has been said, are by nature (and must be) horizontal. Senator Panizza addressed the Government with regard to the regional dimension and noted that something in Europe is not working. We believe that many things do not work in Europe and we are committed to changing the European Union's political approach to fundamental rights in a very significant way. It is a priority of the Italian Presidency and we will discuss it in the General Affairs Council in October, because Europe cannot be perceived by the citizens as being much ignored only in the financial parameters and very distracted when the violation of fundamental rights, the democratic principle and the rule of law in this or that Member State is at risk. It is a theme that we have set precisely to change our approach, just as we are very attentive to the issue of the Macroregions, to which you referred. I trust to be able to tell you that during our Presidency we will be able to launch the strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian Macroregion, which is of great strategic importance for eight regions of our country and for eight states, between those members and those candidates for enlargement, and that it is a new way of developing territorial cooperation between regions in a strategic area, that is, that between Italy and the Balkans, that of the Adriatic and that of the Ionian. In the same way we will work for the launch of another strategy in 2015, the Alpine one, which is of great interest not only for Europe but for many regions of our country. I do not think that we will be able to complete the work on the Alpine Strategy during our six-month Presidency, but we will certainly go as far as possible to allow Latvia's rotating Presidency to eventually close the decision on that macro-regional strategy. Senator Orellana referred to the delegation too wide. Well, many guiding principles and criteria have been abolished due to lack of coverage, but we certainly committed ourselves politically with various agendas in the House to taking back its political and administrative content. However, we believe that, at a time when we are working at European level to finally have a European immigration policy, legal and illegal, we are not doing a six-month job, but a work that starts in the six-month period and is a legislative one. We are committed to having common border management and at last the openings - I stress - of the European Commission with Frontex plus compared to Mare nostrum go in the right direction. At a time when we want to make a new approach based on common border management permanent, it is clear that we must work to further improve the Italian asylum system. The Government has already created additional asylum commissions; through the single text with the delegation to the Government to transpose the directive on asylum, international protection, subsidiary protection, we also respond to the request that we are asked to improve, to make more effective and fully compliant with European asylum rules. It is important to do so now, in these weeks, because transposition gives us more strength at European level to better negotiate the issue of borders and illegal immigration. In fact, on the one hand, we can say that we are implementing decisions that we have helped to make at European level to improve the asylum and international system, on the other, but we also want to apply that principle of solidarity and sharing the burden that is in Article 80 of the Treaty on European Union, as well as in the conclusions of the European Council at the end of June and on which we are only now seeing a start with Frontex plus. We therefore need it from the point of view of the need to improve the Italian asylum system, but also to have more negotiating power on the wider issue of asylum, immigration and border management at European level. I begin to conclude by referring to what Senators Liuzzi and Mirabelli said. I fully agree with Senator Mirabelli's intervention on the practical usefulness, on the concrete answers point by point, sector by sector, which we are giving with these measures. It is clear that in some cases concreteness is useful only if accompanied by timeliness, because doing concrete but not timely work is not fully useful. In conclusion, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs and all the senators who have spoken. I believe and hope that with these measures we will not only do very concrete work, in a positive way, but we will also do timely work, which serves Italy and especially all those Italians who will be the target of these reforms of great Italian and European importance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u19	As established by the Conference of Leaders, the continuation of the discussion of draft laws in title is postponed until tomorrow, at 4.30 p.m. I suspend the session until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u20	The next item is the statement by the Minister for the Interior on the subject of religiously motivated international terrorism. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise in advance if I will not be brief, but I thought I would provide Parliament with a comprehensive reconstruction of analysis of terrorism and specifically international religious terrorism. Terrorism is a systematic subversion of absolute values, religious traditions, cultural belongings, rights and freedoms. Terrorism and counter-terrorism have come into the lives of states, societies and individuals throughout the world over powerfully - say authoritative scholars - by changing the concept of security and sovereignty. International terrorism of religious origin, today, in its most evolved and aggressive version, also dresses European clothes, moving, sometimes, unsuspectable between unsuspectable and launching an unprecedented challenge to global security. In this new capacity, it poses itself as a new threat and looks more daringly to the West, that is to say to the whole of countries and continents that believe in the freedom of the person and in his unbearable originality, who believe in democracy. This challenge to global security has already produced dramatic results and now, in order to prevent others from repeating themselves, it needs a global response. The countries of the West have become aware of this passage and of the levels of alarm on a potential scale, so they have decided to face the challenge together. In this context, I considered it appropriate to address Parliament directly, in order to inform it of the state of knowledge, the possible repercussions of this threat on national soil and the situation of international and global cooperation. We have before us an organization that has ambitions, money and men ready to fight, as no one else had ever had; a ruthless organization that inflicts torture and commits brutal crimes, contrary to every principle of humanity; and an organization that attacks, with the intent of annihilating it, every ethnic-religious minority, also using forms of genocide programmed. The Christian community is exposed to persecution and the overwhelming Islamic State also strikes the Kurdish and yazide minorities with murders and rapes. This information has the objective, therefore, to enter into the merit of what has been said and to confirm also in you that it is a threat carried out by an organization with very great ambitions and that it intends to pose itself as a real state subjectivity. To this end, I will articulate my speech in three parts: the first, dedicated to the structure and methods of financing, propaganda and recruitment of Islamic State; the second, to the response that Italy, Europe and the States involved in the expansionist aims of this phenomenon intend to give; the third, finally, to the specific situation in Italy, to the risk factors and to the level of alarm related to the investigative evidence. The analysis can only start from the peculiar structure that presents the IS, Islamic State, the Sunni terrorist formation led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, which has now assumed, as I said, the control of important parts of the Syrian and Iraqi territory, declaring the birth of an autonomous caliphate, administered according to the dictates of the Islamic law. The origins of the IS are linked to the inner dynamics of Al Qaeda, which brought its component, under the guidance of al-Zarqawi, charismatic figure of the qaedist organization, to become autonomy from Sheik Bin Laden and to elaborate the project of an exclusively Sunni Islamic caliphate. The subsequent events, which saw the elimination of al-Zarqawi, led to the rise of al-Baghdadi, who became the leader of the new organization of ISIS, which remained in the orbit of Al Qaeda until the conditions of its escape were determined. This happened following the expulsion decreed by the Al Qaeda summits, opposed to the methods of struggle that Islamic State practiced against other Sunni creed formations. The IS, thus having historical ties with Al Qaeda, represents a more aggressive form than the fundamentalist danger, for a number of reasons. Meanwhile, since the choice of the name, there is the claim to consider and propose itself in the terms of a new and antagonistic state subjectivity, which tends to draw maximum profit from the crisis of the nation state that has invested the Islamic countries. The Islamic State wants to exercise dominion over its territory and, in line with this self-representation, to give itself a very different image than the one related to the idea that, like other terrorist organizations of political-confessional origin, it constitutes a simple armed phalanx. It is a factor, this, of strong attractiveness, whose main seductive reason lies in conveying feelings of belonging and adhesion capable of nourishing an offer of more radical proselytism and able to turn to a vast audience, potentially indiscriminate and indeterminate. Moreover, the Islamic State intends to extend its insurrectionist project to a large region, that of Levante, which, in its plans, is destined to include, in addition to Syria and Iraq, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, the territory of Israel and Cyprus, countries that are not affected by the conflict, but that may be affected or infected by both geographical proximity and the presence of religious or cultural groups directly or indirectly involved in the crisis. The particular danger of Islamic State is linked to a certain independence from external sources of funding and to the fact that it has acquired the availability of weapons also due to the dissolution of entire departments of the Iraqi regular army. Moreover, Islamic State seems to have been supplied with men and military endowments by an exponent of Saddam Hussein's old regime, namely General Ibrahim al-Douri, who would have recently reappeared alongside the leader al-Baghdadi. Economic independence has corresponded to the military advance of the IS that has reached the control of important energy resources, such as electricity and oil, tearing them away from the Government of Damascus and Baghdad. In addition, it is also able to carry out a withdrawal action through tax collection. To the financial flows deriving from these lucrative activities must be added the proceeds of the kidnappings of person and other illegal traffics, in which is reported, as particularly flourishing, that linked to the underground trade of works of art or archaeological finds, provided that they escape to the iconoclastic fury of the militiamen. With the money collected the Islamic State is in a position to pay its militants and to meet the primary economic needs of their families, thus enriching the ability to hold and internal cohesion of the organization, but also greatly profiting from it in terms of image and prestige. In addition, the IS, unlike other pro-jihadist formations, strictly selective in their recruitment methods (and this is a very important step, in my opinion), allows more elastic forms of access and affiliation, according to which even a non-Syrian can rush into the theatres of conflict to bring his contribution to the Islamic cause. The combination of these particular connotations ended with the enormous impulse to the phenomenon of foreign fighters, formed by those young Islamic extremists, often belonging to the second generation of immigrants, who, although not having Syrian or Iraqi nationality, generally decide, after a period of self-indoctrination, to reach the war theatres to join the fighting. The attraction towards the places of conflict has concerned thousands of young people evocative and entitled by a skilful media-communicative strategy that entrusts its effectiveness to the dissemination of propaganda images through the web. It is no coincidence that, from the columns of the magazine "Dabiq" published online and the official information agency of the IS, the invitation has been addressed to the Sunnis to move to the territories under the control of the neocaliphate with the promise of stability, security, even economic, and wide availability of food and materials. The call to the places of holy war does not appear to be an unprecedented fact, partly recalling what happened years ago in Afghanistan, at the time of the Soviet occupation and later during the Bosnian conflict; but there is no doubt that, in the case of Syro-Iraq, the phenomenon has assumed mass dimensions. The reasons why this flow of volunteers is taking place, especially to Syria, are many and are also linked to the ease with which, after the events of the Arab Spring and the fragility of the Maghreb laity states, border controls can be avoided. Intelligence sources point out that even the precarious situation in Libya, where the clash between radical and secular-progressive Islamist components is intensifying, can lead to favourable conditions for training and sending new recruits to support the Syrian-Iraq jihad. The attractive cause of the high number of foreign fighters, who also flock from Balkan countries, and in particular from Kosovo, seems to be connected mainly to the Sunni revolt against the regime of Damascus, which performs - as has been observed - a function of magnet for the potential terrorists of many countries. Similar considerations also apply in part to the process of the transfer of volunteers to Iraq, where Sunni mobilization seems to find its origins in the sectarian policies practiced by the Government of Shia Nuri al-Maliki and in the feeling of rebellion and revenge that it has achieved. The advent of the more moderate al-Abadi now opens up new opportunities for a more inclusive government, which might be able to dampen, at least in the hopes, ethnic-religious conflicts. The majority of Syrian and Iraqi fighters are joined by thousands of foreign volunteers, mainly from the surrounding countries of Islamic religion, as well as a large group of Chechens. The presence of many Westerners in the anti-Assad front is also reported, on whose precise numerical consistency there are oscillating estimates that serve the extreme difficulty of acquiring certain news. The imprecision of the sources, determined by the objective criticality of the different contexts and probably also by the weakness of the Information Services of the Arab countries, is very remarkable and also invests the same total number of militiamen on which the IS could count. In this regard, some information channels quantify the military force of Islamic State around 10,000; according to others there are 80,000 adherents to the Islamic organization, while open sources accredit the voice that it would be strong even of 100,000 men. This sensitive approximation in the estimates seems to be related also to the modalities of the recruitment, which follows abnormal and irregular logics, on which they can hardly be found. It is difficult, for example, to determine how many of the Iraqi army have actually deserted and have flown into the ranks of Islamic State, or how many men of the Sunni tribes are forced to pass, under threat of retaliation, into the militias of al-Baghdadi. Even on the enlistment of Western fighters, the quantifications appear to suffer from a certain randomity. The data on their size, which includes numerous presences of fighters from Canada or Australia and even from the United States of America, includes many volunteers, estimated at 2,300, from countries of Europe, including Italy, who are affected by the phenomenon although to a lesser extent. At present, 48 people have been involved in the exodus to Syria in various ways, including two Italian nationals, one of whom is the twenty-four-year-old Genoese Giuliano Delnevo, who converted to Islam and died in combat near Aleppo in June last year, while the other person is a naturalized Moroccan young man who is currently in another European country. The further element which alarms the West, and which of course also affects Europe, consists in reducism, i.e. the return of foreign fighters to the territories of origin after having taken part in the war activities, strong in the operational experience and charism acquired and now addicted to the brutalities inherent in every conflict. It is well-founded to suppose that in these veterans the will to continue the jihadist activity in the countries in which they return, giving rise to a sort of continuation of the conflict in a different form and to a stylicide of attacks, according to a strategy that they themselves define as a thousand cuts, meaning it as a slow bleeding out of the enemy. Whether it is not a hypothetical source of danger, but a phenomenon that has already proved to be able to strike several times, this is also attested by the fact that the person responsible for the massacre at the Jewish Museum in Brussels, which took place in May this year, is precisely a former fighter in the ranks of Islamic State, the Frenchman Mehdi Nemmouche. This specific aspect of reducism refers to what was diagnosed by the intelligence community as early as 2009, when the report to the Parliament of that year indicated among the main risk factors the sudden ignition of dormant jihadist cells, that is to say of individuals who, although not being part of structured terrorist organisations, would have been ready to wake up and carry out hostile actions by adhering to the call of global jihad. Even after, in 2012, our Services exposed all the danger of the phenomenon of returning jihadists, illustrating the case of the Franco-Algerian extremist Mohammed Merah, radicalized in Pakistan and Afghanistan, who subsequently carried out a series of attacks in the cities of Toulouse and Mantauban. Examples of the dangerousness of the veterans are not lacking and go back, as we have seen, even to times that precede the affirmation of the Islamic State of al-Baghdadi, to the point that we could unfortunately reconstruct a long chronology of terror. To some extent, even with all the differences of context, elements of analogy of the forms of qaidist jihadism can be seen with those now attributable to Islamic State. But it is another aspect of concern that the analysis of the current scenario highlights and on which I would like to make further reflection: the threat brought by Islamic State to the Western world undoubtedly uses the web as a powerful means of spreading fundamentalist fanaticism. The diffusion capacity of the network, even if it is not a new fact, forces us to deal with the pervasive and mass dimension that has taken on the phenomenon of co-opting and recruitment, in which contact with the aspiring jihadist does not seem to require complex military structures or articulations, nor to have to be measured with particular organizational needs. Even the threat linked to fundamentalism seems therefore to assume a liquid consistency, in which the structural data of the criminal association aimed at the fulfilment of acts of terrorism in Italy or abroad, ends up being almost surrogate by the immaterial vastness of the Network. We therefore need to strengthen legislative weapons. Our arsenal of terrorism laws must be strengthened in order to deal more effectively with this serious and insidious phenomenon, with new instruments taking into account the evolution of the threat. It must always be possible to contest the crime of participation in armed conflicts or acts of terrorism that take place outside our borders, even when the person responsible corresponds to the well-known figure of the lone wolf, i.e. it does not appear to belong to any terrorist association or have played the role of recruiter, because otherwise it would be prosecutable under Article 240-c of our penal code. The aim is to allow the persecubility of pipelines that, even if characterized by individualist impulses, the result of self-radicalization processes, still represent a considerable source of danger to be neutralized in time. In the field of prevention legislation, too, I would like to point out the scope for action to update the rules. There is a need for a refinement of the provisions typical of this monadic, solitary, individual figure of aspiring militiaman, including it without uncertainty among those to which it is possible to apply special surveillance with obligation to stay. This would be intended to frustrate in the bud the attempt to go to the places of holy war by subjecting the author to strict police control and applying to him all that series of ancillary measures that would actually deprive him of all freedom of movement. Of course, these are points that will have to be deepened in the wider collegiality of government and that I feel I anticipate here in the cloud to arouse your attention and, if possible, a first reflection. A comparative look at the initiatives and activities that are taking place in other European countries, those most affected by the phenomenon of foreign fighters, confirms that what we are following is a right path. In the United Kingdom, in fact, measures are being discussed to allow the withdrawal of the passport of suspects, blocking them at the border, and also to deprive them of British citizenship when they are holders of double passports. During the recent meetings I had with my colleagues in France and Germany, and also in my contacts with Spain, I have seen how these countries, equally aware of the high danger of foreign fighters, are preparing a series of measures in which particular attention is paid to the flows of suspected outbound and entering fighters in Europe. Germany and the United Kingdom are also developing prevention programmes based on jihadism deradicalisation strategies, using the support and experience of moderate teachers and social workers and imams. These measures concern both those who have shown a willingness to embrace the choice of Islamic extremism, so that they are pushed to abandon the jihadist ideology, and young extremists who, returning from conflict zones, agree to follow rehabilitation paths. One common initiative in many countries is to monitor the propaganda sites of violent Islamism and to arrange for its closure to stop its hate-inciting activity. Italy, as I will explain later, also invests considerable investigative resources in the exploration activities of the network. On the other hand, one element of specific concern that concerns our country remains linked to its particular geographical location, to the crossroads of transits to and from conflict zones. This leads to the risk that elements of Islamic extremism, even if they are native to other countries, may favour our national territory even as a crossing area. In this direction the intensification of control services at the borders that has been implemented by the Forces of the Order against the feared danger that the asymmetric commuters of jihadism, as they are defined, can return to Europe using Italy as an entry door should be read. The commitment of individual countries is a necessary condition but it is not a sufficient condition, because it is unthinkable that a State can face this particular form of danger alone. The global level of the threat, also in view of its transversal and mobility characteristics, requires the adoption of a unified and harmonised international collaboration strategy that enhances and brings together the information assets of the various police forces and bodies such as Europol and Interpol. Italy has already responded promptly to every request aimed at strengthening the activities of the police cooperation forums and responding to the mandate to deepen the jihadist threat and the phenomenon of foreign fighters. Our experts, together with the representatives of the most affected countries of the European Union, participate in the ad hoc working group that has taken place from an initiative of Belgium, started even before the attack took place at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. Another project of ours, to set up a multinational team dedicated to the phenomenon of foreign fighters in order to promote operational cooperation, already welcomed by the European coordinator for the fight against terrorism, Gilles de Kerchove, is currently under discussion in the technical groups of the Council and, in particular, in the framework of the Police working group on terrorism. I am convinced that, at international level, a modular strategy must be pursued, fueled by the exchange of experience, information and good practices with the continental countries most involved and also by the most fruitful multilateral confrontation, starting with the European Union itself. In this sense, we are addressing our initiative, which has already placed, at the heart of the Italian Presidency and among the priorities of the agenda, the adoption of instruments of joint action to oppose what has become the most distressing source of danger of fundamentalist terrorism. Moreover, the objective of animating common initiatives, in the awareness of the general scope of the phenomenon, was included in the guidelines for the post Stockholm guidelines approved by the European Council last June. With regard to foreign fighters, the objective of closer judicial and police cooperation is indicated, including through the effective use of travel reporting tools throughout the European Union and the development of a system based on the adoption of a reservation code called PNR (the passenger name record) that is functional to monitoring activities. The aim of the initiative is to establish and regulate in a uniform manner the use of a database that makes lists of passengers on transit flights in the Schengen area or arriving from third countries available to police bodies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spiral of unprecedented violence, which has culminated in the heinous execution of the two American journalists, also shows, unfortunately, the wise communication strategy of the self-proclaimed Islamic State. The militiaman who appears in the videos of the two terrifying events expresses himself, as has been observed, in an English "british" who suggested that he was a long-standing resident of the United Kingdom and perfectly integrated. The ambivalence of the message is evident: on the one hand, addressed to the Anglo-Saxon countries and perhaps to the entire Western world, as if to increase their concern that other militants can infiltrate and strike even outside the borders of the Islamic State; on the other hand, directed to aspiring co-religionaries, who have been given a demonstration of the way in which they can assume a leading role if only they embrace the cause of the caliphate. However (and this is the analysis that so many experts share), it is precisely this violence so blatantly exhibited that it can backfire against the expansionist interests of the IS, causing it the aversion of those Islamic groups that are not willing to follow its barbaric drift. The reactions to the brutality of the Islamists and the ferocity with which they impose Sharia in the conquered areas could be similar to those caused by the Islamic State of Iraq proclaimed by Al Qaeda, which was attacked and reduced to a bad party by the militias of the Sunni tribes. In addition, Al Qaeda's attempt to contend with its leadership can help weaken Islamic State's hegemonic claims, opening up a form of competition that also seems to look at other scenarios, such as the Indian subcontinent, in order to make it a new land of conquest and fidelity. Add to this that the fierce rivalry between the various erodes extremist groups, as has been observed, the illusion that Islamic warriors can actually fight together, remaining united, which could cloud its prestige and make them more vulnerable in terms of legitimacy. Of course, the fight against the threat brought by Islamic State cannot only speculate or hope to benefit exclusively on the possible tensions within the Islamic-fundamentalist front and on the often personal contrasts between the leaders of the various groups, even if these tensions objectively represent an opportunity to counter and reduce the danger of jihadism. Precisely for this reason, because we cannot rely solely on their divisions, we need the entire international community to have the capacity to organize an energetic, effective and cohesive response, based also on a sharp policy of collaboration with the countries of moderate Islam. The conclusions of the NATO Summit last week in Wales, with the unanimous recognition by the major leaders of the Atlantic Alliance of the need to stand firm against the challenge launched by the Islamic State and to act together to weaken and destroy its offensive capabilities, encourage us to think that a decisive step has been taken towards a strong and decisive cooperation activity. No one certainly intends to hide or underestimate the difficulty of the task and above all the delicate implications of the strategic-military choices that will have to be deployed in order to prevail over the opposing field, but it remains evident that, through the decision to put in place a joint effort against the neocaliphate, to which Italy will also contribute, an expected signal has been given and, at the same time, of extraordinary importance. Moving more specifically to Italy, the threat posed by Islamic State qualifies itself, even more than in the past years for Al Qaeda, in terms of global war, in that it is preached a total conflict and without neighborhood that wants to annihilate every cultural and religious minority and does not even spare, as has been seen, the Islamic factions considered adversaries. The main objective of Islamic State remains, however, the West and every symbol that represents it historically, politically and culturally. It is the West above all that the IS intends to traverse its foundations and seems to share the analysis according to which, in this precise target, Italy's profile does not occupy a secondary place. Meanwhile, our country is also the cradle of Christendom and Rome, the place of residence of the highest spiritual authority of Catholics, is evoked in the speeches and videomessages recently launched by al-Baghdadi, who, in his ritual exhortations to the holy war, also proposes himself as religious leader of the Islamic people, indicating, in his apocalyptic vision of the clash between civilizations, a radiant destiny that will soon lead Muslims to become the masters of the world. It is also true that, according to a certain analysis, our capital, whose conquest is vague, would be recalled with reference to its symbolic value, that is, because of its millennial importance in the history of the European continent and of the entire Western civilization, rather than as a concrete physical place, but it would not be prudent - in our opinion - to give the words of al-Baghdadi a mere metaphorical meaning, minimizing its sense of a concrete threat. We must always consider the audience to which he addresses himself and the risk that weak and easily influenceable minds may be evoked by the messages of their political and spiritual leader, interpreting them literally. Then there are further elements of exposure that concern the international position of our country and its foreign policy. In this context, some risk components may be mentioned. Meanwhile, Italy, since the attack on the twin towers, has never failed its support for the fight against Islamic fundamentalism, taking sides among the most committed countries on this front. The ancient Atlanticist vocation of our country, its traditional friendship with the United States of America and the fact that we are at the summit of the European institution today cannot be overlooked. More recently, the need to prevent through concrete acts that the nascent Islamic State pursues its projects of genocide against ethnic-religious minorities has led the Italian Government to the inevitable choice, endorsed by the Chambers, to adhere to the request for humanitarian aid and military support of the Kurdish regional authorities in Iraq. The indicators to which I have referred serve to give us, however, the idea of a danger that requires maximum vigilance and interest in every premonitor signal, even the one seemingly least, that can allow the early diagnosis of possible risks to internal security or to Italian interests abroad. Thus outlined the picture of risk factors, it must also be responsibly reported that at the moment there are no investigative evidence in relation to concrete planning, directed against Italy, by Islamic State. The activity of prevention and contrast, in continuity with a consolidated line of investigative intelligence, has been directed towards the monitoring of Islamic extremism, taking into account the considerable diversity of the propagation vehicles that appear to be affected by a profound transformation matured in recent years and favored precisely by the spread of the Internet and social networks. It remains, and is obviously high, the attention to the centers of religious aggregation, of which an accurate survey has been made that has led to census in the entire national territory 514 associations and 396 places of worship, including the four mosques of Rome, Milan, Colle Val d'Elsa and Ravenna. I would like to point out that this activity is not the result of any ideological prejudice, nor does it intend to point out a sort of presumed and a priori danger that prescinds from concrete investigative elements. In fact, when one acted against the preachers of hatred, i.e. against the most oltranzist imams, it was because they had been identified as the main perpetrators of dangerous radicalization processes or as infiltrated agents of Islamist extremism. There are eleven expulsion measures adopted by the Interior Ministers since 2002 to date. Also the expulsion measure, which I adopted for security reasons at the beginning of August against an imam, the Moroccan Raoudi Albdelbar, resident in Veneto, was founded on the strong anti-Semitic tenor of his preaching activity, also spread on the web. That it is not the case to have preconceived positions seems to demonstrate it also the collaborative attitude of the great majority of the imams, with which it was made contact on the occasion of the recent mapping of Islamic associations and places of worship. Their readiness and openness to dialogue represent a very important fact that can support, in a key of moderation, the integration of Muslim communities and promote better conditions of acceptance and coexistence within the local context of reference. There remains a certain fragmentation in the world of Muslim religion, which also reflects in Italy that plural dimension which is a distinctive sign of world Islam and its varied fractionism, motivated by political or religious causes, although, for the vast majority (82 percent), the associations recorded are of Sunni extraction. The other channel that has been constantly monitored is that represented by the various digital platforms, which have taken on that dimension of virtual place of the jihadist propaganda that I have already mentioned. There are obvious difficulties in controlling messages conveyed by the web, whose ability to spread virally towards an indistinguished plurality of potential militants represents in itself a form of danger. It was necessary, in the face of this particular threat, to put in the field sophisticated activities of investigation for which it has had to resort to avant-garde techniques that have required the investment of greater resources and the employment of the most qualified professional experts. Of course, the results provided by preventive technical operations have been widely used, the result of a targeted listening that has searched the various environments of proselytism and radicalization. Also in the investigation activities related to Islamic terrorism, in the same way that for those of contrast to internal exversion, it has proved fundamental the collaboration between the professional apparatuses of the Police Forces and the experts of the intelligence agencies activated for a long time in the framework of the Committee of strategic analysis anti-terrorism, the CASA. Since 1 January this year, the HOUSE has held 35 meetings dedicated to the topic, in which a detailed analysis of the scenario has been carried out, passing to the screening 162 alert, of which 129 related to international terrorist groups, and in detail 81 reports have specifically concerned our country and the other half more generally the western states, including Italy. The high-coordination table that operates at the central management of the prevention police, which is a articulation of the Department of Public Security, has focused various information dossiers, not neglecting to examine, alongside the international profiles of the threat related to the different geopolitical situations, also the possible internal insights in relation to the activities of the autochthonous subversive groups. In this respect, that is to say, on internal terrorism, I am already prepared to return to Parliament for further information. In addition to planning large-spectrum preventive activities, which also concerned the prison institutions and therefore involved the Department of the penitentiary administration, the HOUSE has then prepared, in support of the operational activity, a specific disciplinary dedicated to the problem of foreign fighters and the related phenomenon of reducism. I would like to point out that the investigative results, which have been reported by the press in recent days, refer to investigations initiated for some time in relation to certain alerts, of which the subsequent findings, carried out also on the basis of the indications of the CASA, have allowed the exclusion of reliability or topicality. In other circumstances, press reports refer to people who have been occasionally in Italy, whose passages on our territory have been recorded and monitored. This is the case, for example, of the Bosnian preacher Bosnic Husein, whose position, before the Bosnian police proceeded a few days ago to his arrest, had been examined several times within the same HOUSE, in relation to his reported presence also in Italy. During the period in which the level of alarm increased, the link between the departmental structure of the prevention police and the territorial articulations was very intense. Since 1 June last, 25 alerts have been issued concerning possible threats to the Islamic State. I would like to point out immediately that the in-depth analysis of the various reports did not lead to feedback. However, in the course of this year, there have been important judicial initiatives, such as the one signed between 18 and 19 June, which led to the arrest of three people of Lebanese origin who had acquired evidence of the financing of Middle Eastern terrorist organisations. Other large-scale investigations have been carried out in close collaboration with France, the most affected European country, and the transalpine authorities of counter-terrorism. The operations in question concerned the Franco-Tunisian Abdelkader Tliba, who moved to Syria to join a jihadist formation, arrested by our Police on 16 January, while disembarking in the port of Ancona coming from Greece, and the fighter Ibrahim Boudina, captured by the French authorities in Nice on 11 February of this year, transited to Bari and Milan and tracked down thanks to the collaboration of the anti-terrorism units. I would like, before going to the conclusions, not to elude a point of particular delicacy, often evoked in these days as a specific cause of concern for Italy, namely that through the landings can come migrants of radical orientation that mature the purpose of hostile planning or demonstration and striking actions. When, last August, I reassured about the very high level of alert and vigilance, I also added - and I repeat - that the sources of intelligence do not report this risk among those to which the country could be exposed. Of course this is something that will not be overlooked, because a different position would be considered counterintuitive and would be less than the commitment of which I guarantee, not to underestimate or take anything for granted, also because, if it is true that no concrete risk has been reported so far, it is equally true that no one can exclude its possibility. The offensive of Islamic State represents a horrible form of challenge to the West and its values, but we cannot superimpose it apoditically with the problems of immigration, which are many and for which we are so committed. I share the view of those who believe that we need to look at reality and stick to the facts by contributing to an objective and lucid analysis and we can only do so on condition that we avoid distorting simplifications. I shall end, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by telling you that the facts presented, the gravity and the drama of what Islamic State has accomplished so far explain once again to us that the long journey of freedom, the long journey of human rights through history, the long journey of democracy have not yet been completed and have not yet been completed. Mr Roosevelt's words and ideas on the four fundamental freedoms, namely freedom of speech, freedom of belief, freedom from need and freedom from fear, come to mind. In fact, the deep sense of what is happening lies in the lack of these four freedoms: freedom of speech, which is denied by those regimes that sink their strength into the prohibition of free expression; freedom of belief, which is denied by regimes without any form of secularism and the experiences of Afghanistan, Somalia, Arab Springs, indicate that when fundamental human rights, first and foremost religious freedom, are conculcated with force the premises for rebellion and instability are created; freedom from need, because poor men seek ransom also through forms of rebellion such as the armed one, and, above all, allow me to say, freedom from fear, which is called security. The latter is the essential task that led us here, in the Chamber, to say that the duty of the Government is to ensure that Italy continues to be a safe country, in which Italians can continue to live, invest, hope and build their own future freely. We will try hard and I am convinced that, together with Parliament, we will make the right choices to achieve this great objective which coincides with the freedom of Italians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u22	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for the Interior, whom I thank, has produced a comprehensive report which seeks to take stock of all the open fronts that can put Italy at risk: from the threats launched by the Islamic State to the whole Western world, to the places of risk where Italian presence is strongest, starting with Libya. The meaning of his message - in money - is this: the alert is maximum, but at the moment there are no imminent risks. Indeed, the Forces of Order are moving along a line of great attention. Yet, I remember that not many years ago (2003 was) the document on the European Security Strategy began with the following sentence: Europe has never been so prosperous, secure and free. Since then, perceptions have changed a lot. Today the world seems to be on fire and it is the same security system in Europe that appears to be in danger: a further worsening of the Ukrainian crisis could have a highly destabilising effect, putting at risk some of the cornerstones of the post-Cold War security system (armament control regime, dialogue and consultation with Moscow through the NATO-Russia Council, the role of the OSCE in the field of security and human rights, etc.). Moreover, the establishment of the self-proclaimed caliphate by the jihadist group of the Islamic State further destabilised the Near East, bringing international attention to the phenomenon of Islamic radicalism, so much so that the entire international community, the West, wonders how this threat can be stopped, how it is possible for the international community to counter this phenomenon and what risks present for the West, even in the light of the increasingly frequent cases of European jihadists. The statements of the representatives of the Union of the Islamic Communities of Italy, according to which we believe the problem would be completely marginal if not almost non-existent, were quickly contradicted by what continues to emerge about the existence of networks of liaison in various parts of the country; that we have all noticed that the spread of a phenomenon that grew up before our eyes is beyond doubt, just as there is no doubt that we have found ourselves unprepared to try to decipher the reasons that have led a not insignificant proportion of European citizens to respond to an appeal that denies at the root the principles of tolerance to which they claim to inspire our societies. On the one hand, there is a problem of prevention (the Minister mentioned it), on the other, there is the need to deepen the analysis of the phenomenon, the knowledge of the mental mechanisms and the networks of connection and there is the need to do so by overcoming fences and mistrusts, recognizing that the threat of jihad cannot be addressed in a mere national perspective, which is antithetical to the same message as jihad. There is a problem - I deal with it in a very schematic way - which concerns the foreign policy approach more generally, because in the West there is not only concern, but also a certain dissatisfaction with hesitation; in short, there is a sense that we need to intervene, do something. There are those who propose to organize a multinational intervention but in this regard we must say the things as they are: for such an initiative to have some hope of feasibility, some political compactness of the countries of the Middle East and Russia's accession would be necessary. Both these conditions are more part of the problem than of its solution. We must therefore do something else: keep our nerves in place and support Obama's doctrine against terrorism: political-military support where possible and diplomatic pressure to strengthen those (few) countries such as Iraq which, unlike the Syrian regime, have some democratic horizon. In the longer term, the political-diplomatic conditions must be rebuilt so that the present paralysis can be eliminated; it will be appropriate to rediscover a functional relationship of the West with Russia and to revise, as it were, the alliance in the Middle East, rewarding national aggregation on the sectarian one and democratic modernization on authoritarianism. They are prospects - it must be acknowledged - very far away, but we must start by convincing ourselves once and for all that the burden of the West is a dead idea forever. It is not a mystery to anyone that the old world order, born from the ruins of World War II, is in danger of collapse; many things are changing rapidly and can determine the transition to a different order or to a planetary disorder unknown since the 1930s. If I were to say what seems to me the most important thing is that America no longer has the scale, the strength and even the internal consent to act as the Atlas that holds the world on its shoulders, acting at the same time as an economic locomotive and guarantor for military security. It is no coincidence that an analyst like Mandelbaum has now called it a Frugal Superpower, not to mention that the growing deficits of that country, fueled by the enormous costs of the financial crisis and social protection programs, will nevertheless force America to a more modest international presence. Much of our future is played around a question that is no longer elusive (America's allies can carry a little more of this weight, yes or no?) and is played around the fundamental question of the reform of the military instrument, because it is at stake for Italy not only its efficiency, but also the survival of the operational capacity of the Armed Forces, that is, the possibility for Italy to conduct or participate in missions functional to its foreign and defence policy and, ultimately, the promotion and protection of its national interests. In a recent note, the Institute of International Affairs focused on a speech, which, as it later pointed out, has no and contains no double meaning. The phrase is: 'the foreign policy of the butt's seat'. This phrase - says the IAI - is to be understood in a strictly etymological way: politics in search of seats where to sit, but without knowing what to do with it once used. This, not from today, has been for decades one of the characteristics of Italy's foreign policy and if the Institute of International Affairs deals with this today it is because it has circulated a report on Italian foreign policy that is called: "Choose to count". In fact, the time has come, even for our country, to choose. It is no coincidence that this report came out in parallel with the beginning of our six-month Presidency, because in this context, a medium power such as ours, if it wants and is capable of it, can indicate the priorities for European foreign policy, which are vital for us, starting from a credible path towards accession to the Union of the Western Balkan States, until the relaunch of transatlantic cooperation, through initiatives such as the Free Trade Agreement. It can also indicate and fight for two priority strategic objectives for Italy: the need to respond to security challenges in the Mediterranean and the Middle East and to deepen the prospects for partnership in sub-Saharan Africa. These are impeccable choices for a country like ours, of medium size and that now lives four years of economic crisis. They have an objective which may seem limited, but which is ambitious: to preserve Italy's role in the global framework, despite more limited resources and, therefore, to preserve its security conditions. However, these are choices that are fighting against the traditional policy of sitting down. I am confident that for our Government - I am convinced - the time has come to make choices to ensure security and prospects for our country and I am confident that the Government will be able to do them with the support of the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Marino Luigi and Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u24	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u25	Mr President, in praising Mr Alfano's long and detailed statement, I would like to highlight some issues that can help to provide elements to outline a scenario that brings with it obvious contradictions and which, not by chance, brings together, in an assessment like what we are doing today, foreign policy factors, security and defence policy factors and counter-terrorism factors that pass through the competences and prerogatives of the Ministers of the Interior. First of all I would like to say that the same self-defining on the part of our opponent in the field in this circumstance Islamic State forces us to take us on an extremely slippery ground. In fact, the idea that we do not simply fight a terrorist formation but a community that is self-defined State (which, therefore, can represent almost legitimate brand interests) brings us exactly on the ground wanted by the terrorists, a ground of heavy self-legitimacy that hides an element of the scenario behind which have been hidden for months and in recent years actors of the peculiar contrast that happened to those latitudes, for example, in the name of the hegemony of the Gulf area between Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey. We are talking about countries that in many ways represent our allies or potential allies in the fight against terrorism and that, as in a game of mirrors, expose us to the riskiest of contradictions having to intervene in such a magmatic matter. The second element that I would like to highlight is what has happened more recently, which has passed through precise responsibilities of Italy, which has done well to spend so that the Syrian conflict did not degenerate into an action married by the West to the detriment of the interests not only of the Bashar al-Assad regime, but also of the positioning in that area of Moscow and Russia. What do I mean? Today we know in hindsight that many of the weapons managed and in possession of the men of the Islamic State were suddenly supplied to the Free Syrian Army, that is, what appeared to be the most secular and collaborative part with the West of Assad's opposition, and they easily fell prey to the action of the men of the Islamic State, who tore them out of those formations through their Syrian ally Jabhat al-Nusra. The moment they saw that Assad's men, supported by the Lebanese Hezbollah and Moscow resisted their penetration action, the men of the Islamic State did nothing but turn them south against the dilapidated Iraqi organizations that, lost in the street the presence of 125,000 men of the American administration, have actually proved to be a non-existent and insufficient contrast, exposing the Kurdish State to the ability to penetrate ISIS and today exposing the whole world to the deflagration of a problem of colossal size. The third factor I highlight, praising Minister Alfano for the accuracy of the information, is the problem of foreign fighters. I would like us all to understand that behind the presence of several hundred Kosovars, Bosnians and people who live not only in Italy, but also in Great Britain and France, an ideology has become established. I am referring to the fundamentalist ideology that God takes as a pretext for his own project of power and respect to which Western countries, and especially European countries, although they are well organizing the counter-terrorism response, are still hesitant at the cultural level. Let me give an example to make myself understood, taking advantage of the presence in the Chamber of my colleague Sergio Zavoli, of which I believe none of us has forgotten the proactive capacity demonstrated by the creation of an instrument for the analysis of domestic terrorism such as "The Night of the Republic." I want to say that if on the media level, on communication, on the analysis tools to decrypt what is behind the new terrorism, we are not able to develop instruments that force a generation, the generation of foreign fighters, to make a rethink of their mistakes and their positioning out of the warp of life in a Western society and in a society of free communities that live everything in the sign of democracy and freedom, we will hardly be able to overcome this stage. I conclude with a final reference to the role that Russia could still play on this issue. I say this because it is our duty, in particular of Italy, that has played such an important and prominent role so that the Syrian events could be lived with common sense, to ensure that everything that is happening today in the fight against terrorist formations is not only shared within Western intelligence, but shared through the NATO-Russia Council instrument, which is not 28 against one, but 28 plus one. This moment of great difficulty in the relationship with Moscow, therefore, must not make us forget that the superior task to which we are all called is the contrast to fundamentalist terrorism at three hundred sixty degrees. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u26	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u27	Minister, I join you not in practice, but sincerely, in the compliments that have been given to you both in this branch of Parliament and in the other part of your report, which has been judged to be rich, timely, comprehensive and gives you ample opportunity to discern the basis of a reasoning that part of your report already identifies, namely that relating to the objectives of terrorism, and that some of the speeches made to the House, first of all that of President Cicchietto, have identified. It is not a debate, that is, about the stage in which we are facing this religiously motivated international terrorism, but about why this terrorism is born and what can be done against it. One cannot think of the future if one does not turn his mind to the past for a moment and does not retrace the history of the last thousand years in Europe; if one does not think of the battle of Poitiers of 732, or that of Lepanto of 1571, or that of Vienna, little more than a hundred years later, in 1683. One cannot think of the future, therefore, if one does not turn his mind to that opposition between the West and the Middle East on which we have found ourselves having to reason forever and of which Pope Ratzinger last reasoned, with the acumen that distinguishes him, wondering what had led to this continuous bloody opposition between the West and the East. There is, however, an even deeper substantive truth, which led, in the division before the battle of Lepanto in Europe, to the need for unity of action, namely the fact that that confrontation was not the confrontation between two nations, was not the attempt to prevail of one part of the continent over another, as in the case of the European wars of 1915-1918 and 1939-1945: it was not about wars of succession, but about wars between two civilizations that faced each other, trying to prevail over each other, and this is still what happens today. You said so, Minister, at a time when, among the objectives of terrorism, you identified the possibility of physically occupying Rome as the cradle of Christianity and the authoritative seat of Catholicism. In recent times, these two armies have faced each other, one with a legal-military structure of traditional type, the other - beyond its small or notable number of adepts, which we do not know if it is 10,000 or 100,000 men - with an activity of enormously important flanking, leading to all that part of the Middle Eastern civilization made by sheiks, imams, guerrillas, financiers, computer experts and foreign fighters (the new discovery that we have made in recent times). We must therefore ask ourselves what has happened in the last thirty years. I am already old enough and she, Minister, is experienced enough to remember the first war in Iraq of Bush father, the attempt to bring to the East what we believed to be the Western civilization and the failure of that experience, as well as the subsequent, even more bloodier, during the second Bush administration. We also remember the last, very wrong intervention in Libya, where an international fair play did not give us the opportunity to amend and strongly criticize Sarkozy's action - just as it should have been done immediately - which at that time attacked - is the exact word from the international point of view - a Government legitimately constituted, since until the day before had received, and given, the credentials from a large number of Western countries. We must then ask ourselves what we can do and what can Italy do in participating in NATO meetings in Wales, since we are taking part in it, but not to an important degree of qualification, if it is true what former Minister Martino has reminded us in telling us that he has renewed the role of Secretary General of NATO because in this way he would have been forced to ask for Italy to leave the alliance itself, since our country was the most content contributor. What can you do, then? He can work with the intelligence of a proposal and with the culture that belongs to him, as well as that of those who more than others know what happened in 1571 before the battle of Lepanto. There is the need to undertake activities in the parliamentary classrooms, in the country and in society - and even more so by Italians as she has recalled the presence in Italy of the Holy See - that allow them to be mature for a Western involvement, which is characterized not only by that bloody confrontation, which also has been and must be there, because - as Kissinger says - it is not possible that they are killed on television, without being avenged, Western citizens in the way we were forced to attend. At the same time, however, the attempt must be made to put in place all those intelligent actions which, building on the knowledge that even the document brought to the Chamber today makes available to us, give the start and space in the future to a more incisive and decisive action, which, although not with a battle like that of Lepanto, leads to a solution that still sees us totally involved, as a conscious West. Only in this way will we be able to affirm not our superiority (and here I quote Ratzinger again in Regensburg), but the need for the confrontation to be serene and effective, yet strong, where strength finds its roots not only in its own belief, but also in the possibility that the conviction is made by the force of actions and not only of reasons. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Compagnone and Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u28	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u29	Mr President, kind Minister, thank you for your detailed information which takes into account the seriousness and level of alarm that fundamentalist terrorism is taking over these months, imposing violently on the attention of the international community with the worrying rise of Islamic State in the territories of Iraq and Syria. We are aware of its constant attention and sensitivity on these issues, which the information has fully confirmed. Today we cannot underestimate the problem, nor diminish its repercussions on the international scenario, also because of the peculiarities - which you have clearly outlined - that jihadist terrorism is taking on in the case of the caliphate and that are affecting at many levels, first of all, on the security side, and I will focus, in particular, on the issues of national security. One of the most alarming aspects for our country is, without doubt, represented by the fighters recruited in foreign countries: a phenomenon that certainly affects the countries of the northern Mediterranean, but that also involves Europe, with significant contributions in particular from Bosnia and Kosovo, and Italy, how much it is to the residence of the volunteers recruited and to the citizenship of the same. The danger of which these subjects are bearers is given, in the first place, by their freedom of movement within and outside the national and European borders, also in the perspective of their return; a phenomenon that, in our country, assumes worrying connotations also for the ability of the fighters to provide, in addition to a personal adhesion, a support of a logistic nature. This situation requires the intensification of monitoring aimed at preventing and countering jihadist recruitment: a work aimed at full traceability of movements and more careful control over those minor realities, and therefore difficult to control, that on our territory could decline this type of extremism (and we know well that North Italy has, unfortunately, on this side, many sensitive areas). This work needs the closest cooperation between all police and investigation departments, which have been appropriately strengthened, and to renew the legislative instruments, which are often inadequate - as you, Minister, said - in order to make law enforcement more effective at operational level. On this front we are ready to discuss the initiatives that the Government will consider to support, but also requires action that can prevent, intervening on the weakest areas and exposed from the social point of view, the risk of recruitment. We are aware of the commitment your Dicastery, Minister, is making on these sides, coordinating intelligence and police forces. It is an absolutely worthy job that we strongly support and that must be more valued at this stage, but also included in a coordinated intervention by Europe which, in NATO's key, shows itself active and resolute in the condemnation of crimes, in actions aimed at restricting and countering the advance of the caliphate, even by hitting the realities that promote its viability economically, and in contrast to the dynamics of recruitment, indoctrination and promotion of terrorism. It is clear, in fact, that the response to the violence and provocations of Islamic State cannot be articulated individually. Finally, but not secondary in importance, European coordination must involve the necessary humanitarian intervention, in view of the dramatic situation of the hundreds of thousands of refugees who have already been expelled from the territories of Iraq and Syria, and which Amnesty International has recently estimated in more than one million refugees. It is a fact that constitutes a real humanitarian crisis, destined to have an impact on the difficult dynamics of emigration that constantly revolve to our attention, aggravated, in this case, by the objective risk that, within these flows, hypothetical outbreaks of terrorists return. I would like to highlight how much this phase requires a further deepening of the humanitarian response that our country can and must provide to the phenomenon of migratory flows, keeping high attention to the risks involved. This must be done through courageous choices, both in the fight against human trafficking and in the management of flows, which enable us to define a uniform European framework of action and to decline a lucid response also for a more organic and shared remodulation of the dynamics linked to political asylum. We have before us - and I am going to conclude - a complex situation on which Europe must be present, active and cooperative. Italy, in turn, can and must play a leading role, also considering the deep experience gained in the context of the many missions of peacekeeping and international cooperation, which have seen the involvement of our country and which are an active part of Italy's credibility in foreign policy. At this moment we cannot back down, and with respect to this, we fully appreciate what our country has done and is doing with great seriousness, including through its work, Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u30	Thank you, President. Good evening, Minister. First of all, our Group wants to be supportive of you, given that this House is so deserted this evening in the face of such an important problem: perhaps this is all due to the smoke you have done. Allow me to say that you will not have our compliments, because it seems a bit like those honey pickers of the Kanaka tribe who (like all honey pickers) with the smoke try to stun the bees because they are afraid to be points; we of the League will then try to put a nice sting in the right place. Mr. Minister, you mentioned Roosevelt and you did well, because Roosevelt himself had the hope that if the world had known American values it would not have been necessary to export them or force them into it. Probably, indeed, Roosevelt did not know Islam. I would also remind you, Minister (and perhaps you can pin it on him), that Roosevelt conducted an aggressive foreign policy: the Americans defined it as the policy of the staff. Perhaps today, for this subject, we need the policy of the stick and not that of the smoke signals that we have seen this evening. In order to return to reality, Minister, you have represented a situation that seems to be due only to religious terrorism, generated by Islamic State, as an unprecedented challenge to global security. That is partly true, Minister, but we would like you to return to earth for a moment, because that is not all. Let me make one thing clear, and we of the League want to tell you very frankly. There are two worlds, Minister, distant light years between them: our world, the Western one, certainly imperfect, but at its base finds as a fundamental principle the unequivocal separation between the secular and religious spheres; then there is the other world, Minister, which perhaps less like the Italians, the Islamic one, where religious law determines civil law and manages the private and social life of anyone living in a Muslim context. I would remind you, Minister, that you have perhaps, apparently, represented us as a white Islam and a black Islam. I would like to remind you that in the Koran it is clearly written that the final mission is to annihilate the unfaithful, that is, predominantly Christians. That's what it says. It is not that those who reach a certain point in the Koran tear the page or not the law: it says this and perhaps we are forgetting it. If this perspective is destined to remain unchanged, as has happened so far, coexistence with those who do not belong to the Islamic community can only be difficult, almost impossible. There are two worlds, Minister. One is made by people who, driven both by Christian charity and by secular solidarity, dedicate their lives to the other world, for the good of others and the last. And their lives are too often broken by inhuman violence. I remind you that the three Catholic Christian nuns killed these days in Burundi represent another bloody page coming from the other world, as well as that of journalists slaughtered in an inhuman way. You were also well aware, Minister, that the British journalist's killer spoke in perfect English. Mr. Minister, that should perhaps make you think. One day not too far away we will find a murderer who fights his holy war and who will express himself in perfect Italian: this is the reality of the facts and the scenario that we are seeing. In fact, there are about fifty Italians who are participating in this holy war. At this point we would like to make a thought, Minister. Contemporary society has fostered the so-called processes of globalization that facilitate the movement not only of goods and capital worldwide, but above all the high mobility of people who transplant, with their different cultural and religious items, in many societies of the planet: this has produced globalization. For this reason, Minister, it is good to return not to this or to the other world, but to earth. The relationship between nationality and citizenship is altered. There are increasing societies in which citizens do not share the history of the nation: this is the process we are seeing in the West, and you are one of the architects of this process, unfortunately; it is the truth. The "Mare vostrum" is an active accomplice of this situation, and especially in our country is now a worrying drift. As I recalled earlier, there will come a time when from our country they will leave for their holy war even those who today land on our coasts, besides not understanding what they will be able to do in our country. We'll see. We ask you to think seriously, Minister. The video released, the one with the cut-out journalist, is very concerned. We believe that the message is clear: be careful, we are among you. That is the clear message and so do our English friends, who have defined it that way. Our society is pervaded, among other things, by false feelings of goodness, and here I want to refer to some of the PD's colleagues: these false feelings of goodness too often filled with hypocrisy or clear political opportunity, which inevitably weaken the structure of our society. I'll explain. We are very careful because even what might seem normal for some, to be done lightly, how to remove the symbol not only of Christendom, but of our millennia of culture, from the walls of our schools or from other places, in the eyes of the other world, what I mentioned before, is read as a gesture of weakness and resignation. This world so different that on principle it tolerates absolutely no symbol that determines a religious diversity or freedom of thought. That's the difference between one world and another. At this point, Minister, we would like to give you a piece of advice, since you once listened to our advice, but then you started dating bad companies and it went wrong. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Starting from the assumption that, not only in our country, but in all Western countries the criteria of recruitment and organization of men who feed international terrorism are made within those that, camouflaged as mosques, are nothing more than barracks where they find cover those cells of terrorism that become increasingly organized, thanks also to an increasingly performing economic network, we want to give them a council, to be implemented immediately in the national context. Take immediately into consideration the proposed law of the North League, the moratorium that we have prepared: provisions concerning the construction of new buildings intended for the exercise of the allowed cults. This law, that is, aims to guarantee the need for regulation of activities considered physiological to the religious practices of the Muslim communities present in our country, identifying precise competences regarding the regulation of places that, at times, have little to do with religious functions, as conceived by Western culture. These places are different: they are barracks. If you really want to do something, consider this law. Mr President, I shall conclude by inviting the Minister to think again. Perhaps there is a moderate Arab world, but the more time passes and the more we feel like a utopia. Your views at the moment are very different, Minister, from our positions on immigration, to what you call our willingness to welcome. We invite you to reflect, Minister. Stop your devilish creature right now. You're Mare nostrum's father. You're the Minister of Invasion right now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You are responsible for this drift which, in fact, is throwing our country into chaos. And the consequences, Minister, will be terrifying: for the country and for the Italians. And you'll be the first person responsible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, we are talking about a tragedy which is obviously disrupting a geographical area very close to us. For this reason it is understandable to ask, first of all, what and how high are the risks that it directly affects us, namely that terrorism may occur in our home. If this risk exists, it is necessary and urgent to quickly set up a security net, a work of intelligence with tight links and obviously do everything necessary to prevent it. However, we would also like to talk about the fact that there is another risk, less obvious and less immediate, but more subtle and, in perspective, even more exicial. The risk is that, in the face of this offensive of terror launched by Islamic extremism, our public opinion will react with a feeling of widespread and indiscriminate anti-Islamic hostility. That would, in our view, be a tragic reaction. It would probably be the best possible help for ISIS or Islamic jihad extremists. Islam is not ISIS, and this nobody knows better than the leaders of Islamic extremism itself who, not by chance, put the most ferocious offensive against that great majority of the Islamic world that does not intend to fight any holy war in the first place. It is on this basis that ISIS was born and that is why it broke up even with an organization like Al Qaeda, a terrorist and fierce, but opposed to targeting moderate Islamics. Today, politics has the first duty to prevent a sensible reaction from public opinion and some so-called intellectuals from playing the game of ISIS, which is obviously waiting for nothing else. From this point of view, I can only agree with a few comments made by the Minister on this point. However, I could not say the same about possible, future, special laws that were somehow alluded to. Those laws, in fact, would not only risk seriously violating individual rights, but could also result in a boomerang effect. The Minister has pointed out that among the peculiarities of this emergence of terror there is precisely the enlistment that from many parts of the world pushes young Islamics to enter the ranks of the integralist army. We believe that only our ability to distinguish with the utmost clarity between Islam and Islamic fundamentalism, thus to offer a welcoming side to the Islamic communities and thus to avoid any attitude that may be persecutory, will be able to curb this flow of enlistments, in particular by focusing on an action of strong support and support for all those experiences (especially those of women, which are obviously decisive within this affair) that can make a fundamental contribution to the defeat of fundamentalism. This is true for Western countries and is all the more true for the main theatre of war and terrorism, that is, the countries of the Middle East. If we, with guilty shortsightedness, continue to weaken the political organizations hostile to fundamentalism, such as the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) or the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), only the terrorist and fundamentalist groups, such as ISIS or Jihad, will benefit from it. The PKK itself, which also through its, not by chance, female brigade fighters is trying, sometimes even in solitude, to stop ISIS and fundamentalism, over the course of these years has itself been blamed as terrorist. When Israel seizes only 500 hectares of Palestinian land at a stroke, thus humiliating a man of peace like Abu Mazen, it makes Hamas the most valuable of services, and stating it today does not mean at all being enemies of Israel, but it means exactly the opposite. Again, when men like Marwan Barghuthi in Palestine or Abdullah Ocalan have been imprisoned for years, they once again help themselves and do not fight fundamentalism. Shortsighted and devastating strategies of this type have been put in place for too many years, for too many decades, not only in the Middle East scenario, but more generally in many Western countries; often Italy has also renounced to play that role as a bridge that, instead, in the past years, political forces totally distant from my political culture had been able to carry out in an intelligent, adequate and effective way. Today the consequences are before our eyes and are tragic consequences first of all for the citizens of that tormented region. Today, the top priority is to ensure protection for all the victims of the fundamentalist attack. Attention, not all the means used are good: some are useful, others are only counterproductive. It is useful and necessary to send a UN contingent with functions of protection of the population and arrest of the advance of ISIS. It is useful and necessary to convene an international peace conference, with the participation of all the main countries of the area and all the moderate forces that oppose Islamic extremism. Moreover, the creation of humanitarian corridors to support civilian populations is crucial. It is not useful, and indeed counterproductive, to arm one faction against the other; I am obviously alluding to the choice of arming the Peshmerga, with the result of perhaps sanctioning even the disappearance of Iraq, which, among other things, is precisely one of the objectives set by ISIS. They have been errors of this kind that have laid the foundations for such an emergency over the last few years. You see, I really believe that sometimes we use the category of terrorism with too much lightness and with some element of confusion and superficiality. I state very clearly that I do not want to be misunderstood and that of course I am not justifying in any way the murderers of ISIS. In fact, I think that those who have done so, even in the past few days and months, have made a serious political mistake; they have made a huge mess and they have made those statements wrong. ISIS, Jihad and Islamic extremism are a threat to everyone, to Islam, to the people of those countries and to us, and therefore must be defeated. I say, however, that we cannot talk about "terrorism" always and in any case for situations often very different from each other: this prevents first of all the elaboration of a lucid analysis and therefore also the identification of effective situations, in a context in which there is also the great risk of emulating phenomena in many other areas of the globe. Today ISIS controls and to a certain extent manages an area as large as Belgium. With its 8,000 staff he could not do so, he could not threaten Baghdad without the support of the Baathist forces. That support is a direct consequence of the wretched war in Iraq, which began badly, but continued even worse, and it is increasingly necessary to make a true assessment of what has happened over these years. Colleagues senators, mistakes like this have raised the danger of fundamentalist terror. The West has made many of these mistakes and unfortunately Italy has also committed many of them. Without removing even one milligram - if you can say so - the urgency of defeating ISIS and the other power stations of terror, however, it is time to stop making those mistakes and finally change the way. A serious assessment should be made of the wars and policies pursued by the Atlantic Alliance over the last twenty years. Geopolitical choices almost always wrong, which not only have often sacrificed the human rights of entire populations, but which have proved to be disastrous in terms of security and stabilisation of the areas concerned, as is now claimed by an increasing, probably major, part of global public opinion. For these reasons, too, we should finally have a European foreign policy capable of giving our continent that function of moderation, mediation and reasonableness, even if it is in the utmost determination, which unfortunately has failed too many times in recent years. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u33	He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Giuseppe. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, I listened carefully to your speech, I appreciated the content of your report, I shared the firmness with which the work of the Dicastery you have led continues. I would just like to reiterate some of the concepts underlying the debate that we are holding in Parliament today. The danger of the Islamic State, of the caliphate of al-Baghdadi, is a serious danger to our security and democracy and is even more serious because it is very different from the past and from the other terrorist organizations known to date. First because it is very rich: it is estimated around two billion dollars the cash possessed by the IS. This force, this power has been acquired with raids, robberies, illicit trafficking, kidnappings and the transposition of funds from abroad through NGOs that often appear completely legal. Secondly, there is a completely different military strategy, and so did you in your speech. This military strategy is no longer asymmetrical, it is no longer hidden, it is no longer under track, but it is clearly recognizable, it is a military strategy aimed at being recognized as a structure and theatre of war: identified and identifiable. Finally, there is the communication strategy, which from this point of view changes completely. The members of the Islamic State are proud of their belongings, of their raid activity, exhibiting their physical presence on the territory. These days they are even delivering the black passports of Islam, precisely to mark and identify their presence, not only as terrorists, but mainly as a country that wants to occupy other countries. They enlist the servants of Allah and pay them with the money they have. They use the web, they are false preachers and indoctrinators, in many ways also of the Koran itself. They apply the strategy of violence. The Islamics of the state of the caliphate are the best; the dogs, the others, must die, and each sentence ends in this way. They show off their throats, their abductions, their service to women who are not aligned with their fundamentalist law. They destabilize the area they live in and the area they want to enter. They demand invasion and holy war in every video of them. They wage war not only against the Christian West, but also against the moderate Sunnis themselves, the Shiite Islamics and the whole non-fundamentalist world. And whose allies are these people in the state of the Caliphate? All the homeless militias in the world that are still seeking Islam's victory over the unfaithful world have been called to war. And the answer came to their call; it came strong from the Balkan countries and from a piece of Europe. Of course, foreign fighters are second generation, they are called to war and are often disappointed in the countries in which they live, in Europe or in the Balkans, because they live on the margins of society, but they are still within it and are also, most of the time, unsuspectable. They are solitary wolves, who receive through the cyber world information and indoctrinations, often non-Islamic, I repeat this once again, but necessary to carry out violent actions or to participate in the Holy War. These gentlemen living in Italy, in Europe, in the Balkans raise funds through clean associations and scouting for ISIS. They are the communication of word of mouth and graffiti, which yesterday in Rome reproduced in praise of Islam and the Islamic State in via Prenestina. Minister, you have done well for Italy the Committee of Strategic Anti-Terrorism Analysis at your Ministry and I would like to remind you, through you, all the men who, in different ways, defend our lives every day and guarantee our security in Italy. To her and to them goes my most heartfelt thanks. The strategic objectives that you have mentioned and indicated in your report agree with us: we need to strengthen border surveillance, the Internet and communications, specialise our agents for continuous screening of the possible members or militants of killer states such as the IS, cooperate with all European intelligence and police to prepare a common long-term operational plan, to manage security. We must help a process of democratic and non-criminal transition in the Middle East and Africa for the years to come, find and apply further rules, together, Parliament and Government, in the wake of decisions already taken by some European countries to further ensure security for Italians. In conclusion, Minister, thank you for bringing this information to the Chamber so timely, precise and without omissions. Thank you for clearly and decisively dividing Italy's judgment between the Islamic killers and the Islamic religion. Thank you for the attention that your Dicastery, with those of the defense and foreign are implementing for the security of Italians and to free us from fear. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a thin red line that separates Heaven from Hell, life from death, order from chaos. This subtle red line, Minister, is our women and men in uniform, who every day defend the legality and our security in all the cities and in all the streets of our country. You see, Minister, you have sketched a picture of great alarm for the security of our country, but this alarm has not been born for a few months or a few days. Minister, the Mediterranean has been on fire for years, for many years, and our security agencies have been sending out signs of danger for a long time. Well, your government, your majority, but also the previous Executives what have they done to strengthen this subtle red line that separates us from the barbarism of ISIS and chaos? It is before our eyes what they have done, and I remind you, Minister, with the numbers. As a result of the changes to the revision of public expenditure made by the Monti Government only from 2012 to 2014, every 100 police, police and finance officers who retire can only be hired 20. The State Police has moved from a staff of about 110,000 units to 94,000 units; the Carabinieri from 118,000 to 105,000 units; 6,000 fewer units for the Finance Guard, for a total of 35,000 fewer men, Minister, while the Mediterranean was on fire. The average age in the State Police is 46 years; since 2010 the fleet of vehicles of the State Police has reduced from 29,000 to 22,000 units; that of the Carabinieri has dropped from 34,000 to 25,000 units. Meanwhile, Minister, your government, like the previous ones, has bought the F-35s, spending billions of euros: it is as if in a city with fire at the gates, instead of strengthening the Fire Departments, some fools bought gasoline tanks, because with them the nations and countries are set on fire. Moreover, with the F-35, dear Minister, you will not be able to hunt down a lone wolf or the sleeping cells in your country: you will have to do so with those women and those men you betrayed, hit behind you, and who were in the streets today for the first time to ask only for the application of the law and that you have even identified as blackmailers. I am referring to these men who must protect our security, our country, Minister. Since we are talking about security in our country, do you know what has happened in recent years, from 2011 to 2013? Housing thefts have increased by 21 percent; robberies as a whole have increased, and for the ugly ones, house robberies, there is an increase of 25 percent. Minister, for those who are security experts, as you should be, this means that control on the ground has faded. Mr. Minister, this is about terrorism in vain. When in the years of lead in our country we fought terrorism, we used an expression that I remember: emptying the sea where the sharks of exversion navigate. Well, Minister, in this illegality and impunity will also navigate those dormant cells of which you fear existence; even that lone wolf will be easy to stay late, to obtain the means of illegal sustenance and weapons, to be able to attempt devastating attacks even in solitary. In fact, Minister, when the stations of the carabinieri are closed and in order to justify this behavior the expression "refolding" is used, we all freeze the blood, because "refolding" is a more euphemistic military term to define the retreat, when a country withdraws. We, Minister, are retreating from vast areas of our country, leaving them in the hands of delinquency, organized and not. That's the risk we're taking right now. Ours is a country whose defenses are unleashed because that prevention intelligence is not done on the Internet or on computers. It is done on the streets of this country, to see where the problems really are and where there is lawlessness. How are the men in uniform on the streets of this country? In Catania there are 30 auto-civets. Do you know, Minister, how many of them stand still, out of 30? They're still in 25, because there's no money for spare parts. Is this the fight against terrorism you're telling us about? Is this the security you want to guarantee our country, Minister? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But there is not only the economic question. You didn't just hit our Forces of Order behind you. You also tied their hands. Today, exponents of the Forces of Order have told me, disconcerted, that thanks to your laws passed in this year of legislature is in place a horrendous rippetino among the people who can no longer send to jail and who put under house arrest. These people have understood that escaping is simple and does not involve any risk. Always exponents of the Forces of Order told me that there are criminals who have already escaped four times because we take them and bring them back home. By now, our law enforcement forces are playing catchphrase and they're taxi drivers: they're bringing the thugs home instead of putting them in jail. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Thanks to your laws, you empty prisons, Minister. That's what you did: you tied your hands to the judiciary and law enforcement. This is not a coincidence: you did it for your own interests, Minister, because effective law enforcement forces and the judiciary with penetrating powers could put you in trouble. Minister, if we are to suffer an attack - do not want the sky - surely the hand will be of some crazy fanatic, but the responsibility will not be entirely his, because you, with your folly, have provided on a silver platter the possibilities to do so, disarming our Forces of Order. This is a serious act which we accuse you of, Minister: you have done so knowingly for your own purposes. You don't disarm the Forces of Order at a time when the whole world is about to explode with terrorism, like you are. We think that if - we hope so - nothing serious will happen in our country, this will happen because these Forces of order, struck in the back, with their hands tied, without means and without gasoline to go around, continue the same, despite everything, to do their duty. We thank them for this and invite them to resist and hold on. This rotten and corrupt regime will not last long. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u37	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u38	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last speech I hope has also been heard by Members, so that the Member - I believe that is the name of the citizen of Di Battista - will be able to meditate on the words of Senator Giarrusso, who are certainly better than those of applause for terrorism that we heard with dismay a few days ago. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Undersecretary Vicari. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Since it's the last word that matters, perhaps it's better to support Senator Giarrusso's police forces than to support the Islamic State. End of quote. AIROLA (M5S). You're the ones who don't support the Forces of Order! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm going back to the theme. Minister Alfano, as Forza Italia Group, we thank you, because you have certainly carried out a comprehensive, comprehensive and detailed analysis. However, we remain very perplexed, in the general context, of the international policies made in recent years. I remember that a few years ago - it was 2011 - the political lineup that governed Italy was accused of being hesitant when many proposed the war towards Libya. There was also a debate in the Italian institutions. President Berlusconi, who then led the government, was almost vile. It was said that he met Gaddafi who wore amazons or other amenities. In fact, there was lucidity in the realpolitik that the center-right government had also implemented in the relationship with Libya. Of course, Gaddafi was not the best in life, but when, at the behest of France, the United States and other countries, he won that war, he left the camp to caliphates and other wars between gangs. (at 19.55) (Follows GASPARRI). Today I read about the authoritative editorials of the "Corriere della Sera" of the vacuum created in Libya. It's the same newspapers that instigated that wrong choice. Today Italy is just a few miles away with a problem of terrorism, conflicts and even illegal immigration. The theme of the caliphate, that is, fundamentalism, today is not only with the Islamic State that would claim to settle between Iraq and Syria, because also in Benghazi, Libya, and Nigeria there is a similar attempt. They are distant places between them, but if in the end all this settles, if this return to the bowels of history, the scenes and the images of the beheadings that we have seen come back on a wider scenario, we would be faced with an even more serious threat than what we are experiencing, which is already very serious. Not to make confusion, but all crises must be linked. President Berlusconi has also called realpolitik to Russia these days. In this confrontation between a part of the world and some sectors of fundamentalism, Russia, which has a thousand flaws, is certainly on the right side and I believe it is more appropriate at international level to engage in dialogue, clarifying the fate of Ukraine, which is important. There are not only the Middle Eastern scenarios, but I believe we should also extend eastwards and Russia a front against fundamentalism. Moreover, even the former Soviet empire is corroded and undermined by those phenomena, it has experienced very serious situations in Chechnya and elsewhere. So the analysis and the facts that you have told us are fine, but precisely because Italy has also taken over the presidency of the European Union at this stage and has so much pursued positions of a certain kind within the European Union we must animate this situation. The strongest shock was what President Obama caused in recent days when he literally said: we don't have a strategy in the face of these phenomena. It is certainly not the Italian Minister for the Interior who can solve these problems, but the Italian Government and Italy must do their part. Although Obama does not have a strategy, the President of the greatest democracy cannot present himself before the world with such a hesitant statement. In these days some strategies are sketching it and some reflections have made it, but we cannot be dismayed by this offensive that concerns the fundamental values of freedom, of life and of humanity. Everything is being kept waiting for Italy to make its voice heard authoritatively in the world, in the European Union that is leading in this six-month period, in NATO, to reconnect with realpolitik its relations with Russia so as not to give away alliances, interests, convergences, also in economic and export terms, which I am not talking about because this issue will be discussed in this House on another occasion. I think we have to do our part. Mr Alfano, immigration issues must also be dealt with differently. It is not that all immigrants arriving in Italy are terrorists - we do not dream of making such a statement - but she too had to say that there are risks of infiltration. I believe that this transfer from Mare nostrum to Frontex Plus is also a deception. The other day I was surprised - you will have read it too - that the daily newspaper Avvenire, a very particular and moderate newspaper, denounced the reverse of the European Union with respect to the alleged commitment that the current Government has also repeatedly announced to us. What is the alleged passage from Mare nostrum to Frontex Plus? Perhaps nothing, because on the one hand Frontex say that they do not replace Mare nostrum, and on the other hand money and resources are scarce and, on the other hand, there is a risk of worsening. If we, in fact, have a few more ships that will bring more illegals to Italy we will have made the picture worse. It is about to strengthen the problem for Italy. Mistakes are kept. The international pressure for that war in Libya was a mistake, because, I repeat, the dictator was invisible, but chaos, tribal struggles and the caliphate in Benghazi are worse. In the same way, perhaps we will have to reflect on the events of Iraq and Syria. The model that was outlined with the end of the Ottoman Empire by the Franco-English agreements is crumbling today, so we are facing an emergency of historical dimension. So let us avoid that there are, at least in our home, worse consequences. It's nice, it's true, Senator Giarrusso, to support the Forces of Order, but if you hadn't voted for the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration, which we of the Forza Italia Group here in the Senate have supported, perhaps we would have had a less serious situation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I also say this to Minister Alfano and the Government: we do not want to criminalise the whole of immigration, but we believe that we must put stakes. We therefore hope that the Mare nostrum operation will be suspended, that Frontex Plus will not be a scam to change the initials and perhaps make the situation worse, that the measures you have also mentioned, that England has also announced and that Italy must absolutely develop. All this, however, must be framed in a great international policy of defending freedom, avoiding the mistakes of the past. How many praised the Arab Springs, believing that, in some countries where the path to democracy will still be long and difficult, a sort of House of Lords or British Parliament would be set up! I wish it had been that way! Even Egypt, which is a country that has had more relations with many international realities than others, has experienced the season of the Muslim Brotherhood; then we have returned in fact to the military, who now rule that country again. The Americans, who had financed Mubarak's government for years and the previous ones, taking over the Russian influence that had occurred in Nasser's time, spent money to applaud the riots in support of those who shot down the same ones that they had financed, and then came back to the point and to the end. There is great disorder in the world, there is a great lack of leadership. I don't know if the guys in the white shirt we saw on Sunday will be able to create a new international leadership if Obama can finally find a strategy coming out of that impotence that he publicly admitted. What I know is that we have to do our part, so we must prevent illegal immigration or transport at our expense of too many illegals from feeding pockets of intolerance; we must not allow violence and abuse. In fact, I see so much silence, especially when there are prejudices against women and children within immigrant communities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We can no longer tolerate forms of prevarication that have nothing to do with traditions: and if they are traditions, they are wrong traditions. We must not be ashamed of our model of Western democracy, which we must not impose on anyone, but which we must propose to everyone and which we must defend within our borders. Welcome to the expulsion of the imam that took place in recent days, expulsion that we appreciated as you will have noticed, but perhaps there are too many clandestine mosques. In Rome even, some time ago, a town hall gave a public hall to a kind of mosque, which was not a mosque but a place of poisoning. I remember years ago when real kamikaze schools were denounced in Milan, some areas of the judiciary minimized, and these attitudes were also present in parliamentary bodies. Also in Milan, a few years ago, a person exploded in a barracks: luckily he did not take the full course, and therefore the attack did not have catastrophic results, because he was probably still at the start. But what do we have to expect? We have also recorded in this country the dismantling (I remember Abu Omar's story) of Italian and international security structures called to counter terrorism. Do the government's part, adopt in the international concert norms of greater anti-terrorism control, but also block, with Mare nostrum or Frontex Plus, other wrong policies that are opening our country to dangers that we do not deserve to face. Western democracies are aware of the realpolitik that is needed: if you have been wrong at some time, apologize. I'd like to finish with an image. I remember that it was ironic when Gaddafi came to Rome, because he held the tent at Villa Pamphili for two days. Go tonight at midnight to Villa Pamphili: you will find drug dealers and prostitutes. Maybe it was safer and more controlled when there were those episodes instead of today. So, Italy resumes in the Mediterranean that realpolitik of dialogue where it is possible, of firmness where it is necessary, but we will not tolerate that our democracy and our civilization are swept away by the cutthroat. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u39	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the information of the Minister of the Interior on religious terrorism of Islamic origin requires that we give our intervention a more relevant cut to the issues of a more internal nature concerning the security of people on national territory, with the necessary examination of the objective and subjective instruments in possession of our State in order to prevent and adequately address the possible terrorist danger, starting from what emerges from the relationships and activities of our security systems, from those of prevention and police and the judiciary itself. Nevertheless, analysis and considerations would not be necessary, if they did not start, albeit synthetically, from some broader reflections, with obvious reflections and internal repercussions. It is indisputable first of all that we are faced with a largely new situation, because the Islamic State is currently the most aggressive and violent force that has been seen in the East and the Middle East since the invasion of the Mongols. This Islamic State seems to have - and still want - a free hand in intervening in one of the most sensitive and strategic geopolitical areas on the planet. The situation is largely new, because the Islamic State, although rising from the alqaedist cradle, has surpassed and even is really realizing some of Bin Laden's main ambitions, being precisely a state that tends to conquer and preserve its own territory, which has an army, which is endowed with huge financial resources and that manages even a whole series of social services. The situation is also largely new, also because it fits into the context of the Syrian conflict, which seems to have lost its initial characteristic of contesting and fighting against the harsh regime there, in order to rise to the level of gradual process of regionalization of the conflict, with the consequent involvement of subjects completely unrelated to the internal dynamics that tend to introduce visions and interests of global scope. If we consider the existence of new aggressive and radical Islamist terrorist formations (such as the Islamic State, which has gone from a terrorist group to more sophisticated forms of guerrilla warfare, to semi-state forms, or Jabhat al-Nusra, or Victoria Front, the al-Golani Emir, or Caucasian terrorists), we realize that the very strong tensions, to use euphemism, still contained in geographical areas far from Italy, will soon run the risk of spreading to the entire Western world in all their virulence, and not just for reasons of emulation, competition or primacy among exponents and movements of Islamic terrorist radicalism. In this situation, while recalling those that can be considered the greatest weaknesses of international jihadism, such as the excessive intransigence and ferocity that by good luck generate repulsion in the same moderate Islamic world, and while mentioning that twenty-year plan in seven phases of Al Qaeda, which in some places seems sometimes to find glimpses of alleged realization, it cannot be hidden that the only possibility of protection - I would say of self-protection - of our territories and of the entire western world consists in the ineluctability of some conditions. Preliminarily, one cannot ignore an international political strategy that involves the involvement of the Iraqi State and the various populations, Sunni and Shiite, to be removed from the influence and intervention of the Islamic State, against which all the states of the region and all the authorities, especially religious, of the Islamic world should take a clear distance, precisely in order to try to make earth burned around the violence and ideological cynicism extremist, which can only be denied precisely by the summits of Islam. Furthermore, it is clear that, at European and global level, joint action and political, financial, security and intelligence activities, which slow down and then block the flow of fighters and funding for Islamist terrorism, cannot be ignored. International collaboration was and remains fundamental, just as relations both in the political-government world and between prevention and intelligence bodies are confirmed as the necessary tool to fight a terrorism that aims to be global, that identifies changing objectives and that makes use of differentiated tactics, including - very dangerous and attractive for young Westerners - propaganda and dissemination via the web. Certainly rightly, in recent times, the Italian and international press have raised the veil, publicly, on mechanisms and death interventions that have affected, at the moment and recently, the only international non-European scenario. And with good reason, they have told of the participation in the activities of the Islamic terrorist movements in particular of European citizens and even Italians, not hiding concerns for recruitment activities and proselytism also within our national territory. Now, there is no doubt that the guard should always be held high. Moreover, it must be said at once that the reports of the media have long been well known to our intelligence and security systems, both in terms of phenomenology and in terms of numbers, modalities and mechanisms. In this regard, it is not necessary, albeit generically, to imply the broad collaboration that our intelligence systems have maintained with the Copasir, our parliamentary control body; collaboration that, like Copasir, we have also found with similar European and American bodies. As it seems to have been appropriate, at the moment, the activity of prevention and control of our police forces, in collaboration with the judicial offices delegated to the fight against the crimes of exversion and terrorism, as is also shown by the data provided by the Minister. It certainly cannot be said that you can be quiet or that everything is fine. The threat should not be underestimated and will continue for a long time, because the propaganda phenomenon and the strong ideological grip on European citizens, and even Italians, is unfortunately on the rise, although the numbers still have to be considered very limited. In this area, terrorism, however, we know very well that very few fools, even just one, could be enough to unleash indescribable and more difficult to detect violence and ferocity in advance. Moreover, the reference made in the introductory report to the approval of new cases of anti-terrorism crime, or in any case to the creation of new criminal cases, seems unnecessary. Our procedural and substantive criminal system, as well as the preventive and security system, are appaled as suitable for necessity. It is clear that no system is or will always be perfect, which is why it will be essential to continue to study specific phenomena and facts in order to anticipate any failures of the system and to remain within a system of protection even European criminal, as the Minister mentioned. But above all it will be necessary to ensure certain factors: that international collaboration and solidarity with religious communities are increasingly broad and real, without resorting to irrational alarmisms or witch hunting; that at the level of the Government, deep and secure relations with international politics, and in particular in the Islamic world; that our police forces and security apparatuses do not suffer cuts of indiscriminate resources (of men and means), of which we would never want to regret; that the police and security forces are equipped with the most modern tools, even technical ones, for a more punctual and real-time control of the terrorist (s). [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Maggio and Mauro Mario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u41	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u44	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would not like to let this day pass without recalling the sacrifice of three sisters who were brutally killed in the Republic of Burundi yesterday: Olga Raschietti, Lucia Pulici and Bernardetta Boggian. [[Applause]] It's a few hours ago the news that the culprit was found and imprisoned, probably a deranged person. I am interested to recall the fact that people like the sisters, in the reality in which they have carried out their service (in some cases for many decades), have always been remembered with love, to the point that, at an advanced age, they have decided to return and conclude their earthly life within the same realities that have known them as loving and competent figures, willing to help in any way, without any other purpose other than what Pope Francis rightly recalled, that is, to sow the good. The seed of good, which grows in a world as tormented as Africa, I believe lies in the intelligence and hearts of all of us. I wanted to remember them with you at the end of the session, because I think that their sacrifice must be remembered, for what they have been and for what they have sown. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u47	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, I would like to speak on the same subject raised by Senator Puppato, along with his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u50	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I too agree with Senator Puppato's words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency supports the memory of the sisters killed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u53	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, today the Minister presented us with a prospect of strategic analysis that horrifies me. The Italian Police, Navy and Air Force are living in the collapse of structures and superstructures. Sardinia is a strategic seat militarily, not so much and not only as a base of support, but above all as a theatre of internal exercises that the Italian Army and NATO have been doing for many years. The military interforce polygons are three, respectively: the experimental interforce polygon of the Salto di Quirra, the Poligon of Capo Frasca and the Polygon of Capo Teulada. After that of Quirra - assured to the honour of the chronicles for a judicial inquiry on the activities and exercises carried out over the years within the range, in which the investigation against six former commanders and others responsible for having falsified the environmental data has opened in August 2012 - and despite the complaints remained unheard, we are now faced with another disaster, that of Capo Frasca, an area comprising more than 14 square kilometers, in which are carried out continuous earth-sea exercises, preclude also a mirror of water of about 450 square kilometers to navigation and fishing. By virtue of the military exercises both the territory, and the marine area in front of them are rich of unexploded ordnances and are irretrievably compromised. Finally, several investigations have now established how military polygons have polluted and contaminated immense areas of Sardinia, using within them weapons and harmful substances that have decisively affected the increase of tumors, lymphomas and serious diseases among the inhabitants of the neighbouring areas. To this must be added the inestimable implicit damage of having deprived the areas of the military polygons of their natural destination and the management of resident citizens aimed at the development of the territory. To this long, and all too often unheard of litigation, has been added the sad and worrying news - spread by the daily "The Sardinian Union" - of the damage caused, again because of military exercises, in the last days, to the archaeological area of Teulada (with particular reference to 13 nuraghi and an important necropolis). The area also includes the Punic-Roman ruins of Porto Scudo, the Punic necropolis of Porto Safferano and a wreck in the same area. I remember that the nuraghi, to make time since 1997, have been recognized as a patrimony of humanity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. SERRA (M5S). Interests of part and implied responsibilities have characterized since the second post-war period to date a management, such as that of the Sardinian military sites, dangerous, unfair and reckless. I would like to hope that, only last in order of time, the recent wound inflicted on the Sardinian historical-artistic heritage has at least the merit of bringing to the knowledge of the gravity of the facts towards the public and moving the consciences, so that once and for all it turns the page without turning its gaze on another side. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-307.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, September 10, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.20 p.m.
