ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Comments of Senators Cappelletti and Santangelo.]] The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1541. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general debate began. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, this omnibus decree-law - another, in order not to lose its habit - deals, in eight articles, with the agricultural sector. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u10	Excuse me, Senator Gaetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u11	Colleagues, I ask you to lower your voice to listen to my colleague's speech. Please, Senator Gaetti, continue. GAETTI (M5S). With this brief speech, I would like to make it clear to the Italians who are listening to us about the work of the Committee on Agriculture, rather than about the substance of the articles. In just over a year since the settlement, we have discussed many critical issues in the agricultural world, we have analyzed many bills, provisions and more. We in the M5S have always participated in the debate and, in the case of this decree-law, in the extension of the matter and in the sharing of the Commission's amendments. Unfortunately, we have had to note that several draft laws, which had been widely discussed and also analysed in restricted committees, have become additional articles of this decree-law: I refer to the bill No 287 on youth entrepreneurship or to the amendment introducing the additional article 1-a, with 22 paragraphs dealing with topics almost all already present in the related agriculture. These are just a few examples, but I might recall others, such as the draft laws no. 135 and 136 and more. I would remind you that the related agriculture to the Stability Act (Senate Act 1328) had been assessed by the Commission in forced stages (I open a parenthesis to thank the staff of the Commission who have done out of measure to set up a truly comprehensive audition programme), with the aim of handing over the amendments at the end of May, to proceed to the debate in June and to the passage to the Chamber in July. The iter has been blocked by the numerous versions of this decree-law in the meantime exits. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u12	Excuse me, Senator Gaetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u13	Colleagues, I really ask you to lower your voice or leave the Chamber. Please, Senator Gaetti, continue. GAETTI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, it would have been possible to approve the connected with the same times of the decree, without any urgency. It is the form, however, that we do not share. We consider it reductive to degrade the work of the Commission, hence of Parliament, by including the finished product of the work in a decree-law, rather than proceeding with the adoption of the bill in this House. We have always worked in the Commission to achieve maximum sharing. The discussion, sometimes harsh, has always been about content; never made obstructionism; never made demands or counterpointed. To demonstrate what we are saying, none of our amendments were subsequently adopted in the Commissions in the referee. I trust that some amendments can be adopted in the examination of the measure in this House. This to future memory, to make understand how the 5 Star Movement reasons, does not ask favors, analyzes the contents and, if it shares them, subscribes them. Of course, from now on we will also demand respect for the form, and we will no longer give any support (even in substance) to a decree-law that is used as a shortcut to Parliament's prerogatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I wanted to remind the government that on real problems we are able to sum up, while acts of empire such as those on constitutional reform are useless and harmful. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] In the Committee on Agriculture there are no majority and opposition, but parliamentarians who work for the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u14	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u15	Madam President, the first thing that is clear to all is that the government is in a stalemate, it is absolutely stuck in a funnel. That's because I think sometimes a consensus too strong that you can't manage also creates a short circuit, media probably. The promise to do so much, to do it now, to make it soon (first one measure per month, then one measure every day) has created in these classrooms a very serious funnel effect for the performance of the works. We are in fact having to discuss a constitutional bill which, as I have already said, is a governmental initiative (and this is already a serious anomaly), for which discussion has been contingent on the times. This is because we are faced with a series of deadlines of decree-laws and measures that we will have to examine in September: it is true that in September we will have to deal with labour measures and then with the law of stability. Then these were probably not the times or the ways to deal with the constitutional bill. The government should learn to be a government, because we know that the three powers of the state are quite distinct. I doubt that the reason why a few years ago the study of civic education was taken away from schools is a bit functional to the crumbling of knowledge that has been in place for a few decades. It is easy to understand that the Government should perform the executive function, which translates into so many powers, including that of providing for the 800 implementing decrees (of which 183 depend only with regard to the Renzi Government from the beginning of the year). The measures lack annexes and tables, which makes them absolutely null, because, once approved, if they do not have the implementing decrees, they do not become enforceable. We know that there are also no tables in Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, so we are in a very serious situation. The government would have had so much to work on to improve the country, and instead made this continuous, abnormal, bulimic production of decree-laws and constitutional bills and then come to tell us that there are no times. We should have all been in the 10th and 13th Commissions to know what happened in this regard. To us was introduced Decree-Law No. 91 of 2014 which, alone, should have attracted the attention of the country and the discussion of everyone on a measure that is already omnibus, and this is serious, because it deals with too many subjects, and all very delicate. Although the Presidents of the Commission, at the beginning of the debate, had also agreed that this decree was too full, full and complex, on the 21st of this month, at 10.30 p.m., the maxi amendment on the Ilva arrived, and therefore another decree was compressed within this same decree, when this was already due, i.e. the Commissions were asked to discuss in a few hours what a decree required to discuss in 60 days. We are therefore compressing everything, any discussion: the times of the constitutional bill and decree-laws are compressed and contingent, as in the case of the sixth ILVA decree. It follows that, on very important issues, such as those dealt with in Decree No 91, there was no time; in fact, the Commissions had to work at night, with great discomfort and great difficulty for those who spent all night on the provision, when the next day they were forced to work on the constitutional bill. I don't think we're doing well. On the contrary, I think we're doing very badly. What is important to stress is that there is a difference between rule and rule. We often speak in these classrooms, I have heard Senator Zanda say, that at some point, after the opposition has been allowed to speak, we have to make decisions. But letting the oppositions speak does not mean giving them a time when they can vent their needs: it means seeking consent. Consensus is the basis of government, this is a fundamental thing that we must all reason on, on which we must pay the utmost attention. Governing means being so strong, great and wise, especially strong by 40.8%, that you can listen and create consensus. This should be the purpose of this House: to create consensus and thus reach a shared decision. That's governing. Instead we see the iron arm, the iron fist, we see the manly muscles of a governmental bully that can only lead to ungovernability. There is no other solution. I would like to have a few minutes to discuss also what is provided for in this decree, which also contains licences for Bonifices. There was no way to create this simplified procedure, because here everything is simplified, of controls intertwined with environmental agencies, and the possibility was not given either to the Region that must grant the consent to give prescriptions, in case the investigations, the carrots and the monitoring done without contradictory by the people interested in doing them were not good, in case therefore the project was not up to the level. No, the proposal was not accepted so that the Region could issue requests for further study. In the same way, for the live call, he was asked to overcome this unfair and truly outdated idea for which we are derogating from Europe, and therefore in infringement proceedings; but no, because there is always the iron fist, the muscular and virile arm that he wants to command. Moreover, this change of destination has been made for sites that had been military and that automatically become industrial sites, to maintain tens of times higher levels of contamination, and this will mean that these sites will never be given to the populations, that these beautiful territories (very often, as in Sardinia, they are beautiful territories), will never return to the populations and once again the strongest will have the victory. And again, on the decree "spam incentives" it has managed to do worse, with an amendment that has caused the arm wrestling with the Government and the continuation of the work in the Commission all night long. It has been possible to do worse than what was contained in the government article. Although we have - rightly - defended the right of those who had made a legal investment and signed an agreement with the Government, with the GSE that is a governmental party (it is the State), we cannot accept that now, due to the pressure of these great lenders, we run the risk of creating a burden on public debt. This is contained in the rapporteur's amendment, which - I must say - the government did not want to have it approved, but with a strong arm has passed. This constitutes a major risk, because that forcing, with a retroactive measure that will still hit renewable sources, will now fall on the head of all Italians as the risk that is felt on the public debt is real and real. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that what is happening with the constitutional reform bill has a close relationship with measures such as Decree-Law No 91 under consideration, because when this dictatorial management is ratified, there is no other word to describe it... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, since 11 minutes have passed since the start of the surgery, I invite you to conclude. NUGNES (M5S). Yeah, I'm gonna finish. When this administration of government power is ratified that attracts to itself all the powers, the legislative power and - unfortunately - as we have seen in the draft law there is a danger that there will also be interference on the judiciary, we will no longer have a chance of speaking. But this is a fact that is already happening in all the Commissions and our classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u16	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the term 'competitiveness' with which this measure is known to all is a characteristic objective that suits itself, but not for content. The decree-law is absolutely competitive. On the contrary, it is and will be for a long time the number one, the number one, compared to the other treaties up to now, and certainly those that we will face in the future, in terms of the heterogeneity of matter, the confusion and the bad results. Madam President, here I want to denounce the method and the timing with which this decree-law, after the government issued it, was the subject of total remodelling before arriving in this House, and - precisely - for the responsibility of the Renzi Executive, who gave birth to it quickly and badly, and above all because it imposed its examination in overlap with the path of the constitutional bill. Dear Premier Renzi, the haste - I repeat - is a bad counselor! The decree-law in the issued text had a quantity of holes and castroneries. The proof: 1,700 amendments, most of which were tabled by the Democratic Party Groups and the New Right Center. Premier Renzi, why didn't you call them back to order? Yet, he has also, like the other groups, accused the Lega Nord Group and Autonomies of obstructing reforms. However, I would remind you that only 80 amendments have been tabled on this measure. There was a race against time to arrive in good time in this House yesterday. Since we are dealing with a decree-law which contains seven articles relating to the agricultural sector, I would say that there has been the cow market! Cards, continuous meetings between majority and government by day and night. There has been an avalanche of new amendments, tabled by the rapporteurs and by the Government: many, too many, many of weight, like the one that converted the sixth - I repeat the sixth - decree on the Ilva of Taranto. There have been inadmissible amendments which have become admissible; others with the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution for which the revision was sought. The minority, however, also arrogantly, dear Deputy Minister De Vincenti, have been rejected without the opinions of the 5th Commission. In the measure there are many negative things left, such as the appointment of the extraordinary commissioner for the realization of a heater in Campania, issues that was absolutely to be dealt with by the Campania Region. The introduction of VAT on the contribution to support the start of the recovery of tyres is expected: it is a new tax that Italian citizens will have to pay. There are negative aspects that have been removed, such as banking anatocism which, thanks to a first-signed amendment by the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group, has been deleted. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Renzi Government, which should think more about the interests of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises strangled by high interest rates, excessive costs and the rules of the bank's use and consumption, had bent to the banks, bringing back the window that the law of stability in December 2013 had decided to cancel: the calculation of interest on the interest of loans and loans. In the face of this, fortunately Parliament has had a whirlwind of dignity and has deleted it. We have foiled an attempt to re-introduction, but we know that the will of the government is firm and will try again, but the barricades will rise from us. Other negative provisions have been introduced. The simplified procedure for securing security has been removed - alas. In fact, an amendment was adopted which frustrates the good intentions of the Government for simplifying the procedures for reclamation of polluted sites. The abolition of the reference to the safety of the sites and the accelerated procedures for the execution of the reclamation plans by private individuals who intend to use the areas for industrial purposes and who therefore, at their own expense, provide for the reclamation of the soils will make the operations even more cumbersome. Yet the safety of polluted soil is an activity, both operational and definitive, which is an essential part of the overall reclamation project. The Government has missed the opportunity to be consistent with what has been proclaimed in words and once again the simplification has remained only in the title of the measure, despite the projects of reclamation of the territory, indispensable both for the environment and public health and for the revival of economic activities and employment. We come to what should have been the milestones of the provision. I am referring to the energy efficiency of schools. We would like to thank the rapporteurs for accepting our amendment, which also means that kindergartens are public buildings benefiting from subsidised funding. We regret the fact that the rapporteurs and the government rejected our amendment aimed at rewarding the virtuous Municipalities: basically those with high levels of debt will still be able to raise other loans. We are also sorry that the amendment reducing the benefit ceiling for design interventions alone was not accepted. There is a risk that a lot of money will end up paying professional fees and will not be used for school interventions. Then there is the usual Stability Pact: it has not been accepted as a derogation from the Stability Pact for investment in school efficiency. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that few, very few municipalities will be able to do so. Finally, we come to the bill cutting. Premier Renzi promised businesses a 10% discount on the electricity bill. Well, only 15% will benefit, the 10% discount will only be a mirage. Moreover, this benefit for a few will be paid at a high price by the whole system that has invested in renewable energy in recent years. Those who have invested in high energy efficiency plants will be penalized. The savers who have installed photovoltaic systems on their home with a power greater than three kilowatts will also be penalized. Basically new taxes for everyone. Then, the reformulation of the spread incentives, as modified, is worsening and goes to penalize this world even more, despite the alarms and vibrated protests of the victims: the operators of the sector. And this is precisely at a historical and political moment where the energy risk is very high. Retroactive interventions introduced on incentive tariffs are not only seriously detrimental to the economy of the sector and the whole country, but represent a serious vulnus of the democratic system because, in fact, they make the agreements already signed between the State and its enterprises rag paper. This measure has three negative characteristics: it is retroactive, discriminatory and liable to appeal, because it basically violates the certainty of national and international law and therefore the credibility of our country towards Italian and foreign investors, who will certainly close their door in relation to investment assumptions also in other sectors. For our country there are high risks of litigation millionaires. Dear Premier Renzi, we had understood, on the occasion of your programmatic intervention, that you wanted to enhance the green economy, considering it as an essential tool for restarting the country, and instead the sinking with your world, made of companies and employees, tens of thousands, and sinking its continuous developments that in this way are trampled on and humiliated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u19	Madam President, what we are about to conclude is a very hollow and empty debate, and I am not just referring to the lack of presence in this House, which underlines the disinterest of the majority in the debate itself, which is not new. In fact, the approach has now been understood: the government makes the decree, the majority in a very faithful way, or if we want to call it supine, it adapts, it does not move if not a few words, some hint of dissent in the Commission (except to adapt during the late hours of the night), then we arrive in the Chamber, where we know that in a few hours we will be placing trust, and therefore everything we are debating will have zero value, rag paper. This is what is happening here, for the umpteenth time, with the so-called competitiveness decree. You see, Madam President, you see, senators, that's what's farther away than parliamentary activity. We should be in here to legislate, to respond to the problems of citizens with an instrument placed in our hands by the law. Instead, we are simply obliged, for part of the opposition, to raise the ball on the problems that remain present in the decree-laws or, for part of the majority, to adapt to what the Renzi Government decides and thus to pull right. There are therefore enormous distortions, such as those we have seen in this decree-law, which - we must remember - was completely rewritten a night ago, in a Commission that lasted until 7 in the morning, with senators who were obliged to review the whole text of the decree-law, with votes made at night, without any possibility of comparison with the same citizens who will then have to adapt to these regulations and without any possibility of comparison with the offices, with the technical parts that must support us in the parliamentary activity. That is, I wonder, if this parliamentary practice had been followed years ago, as a whisper of roundabout, purple or violet square, there would have been. Today, however, everything is silent, and we are discussing a decree that is declared of the utmost importance, although in a very curious way, because when the opposition asked for the discussion of the decree in the Senate, its inclusion on the agenda was postponed for constitutional reforms. Today the decree has been inserted and will be discussed on a whole day that will be substantially lost, because of a discussion that, I repeat, is void because it is already decided. On the way back to the night of the Commission, I wonder how the senators can be forced to stay in the Commission all night until 7 a.m. and then bring them to the Chamber at 9.30 a.m. to vote on constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] , thinking on the one hand that there should be due lucidity in examining the arguments and, on the other hand, there should not be a single bit of protest about this way of doing it. All this is aimed at the discredit of this institution, because if any of the senators present in the Commission in the morning had simply dared to claim that they had spent the previous twelve hours reviewing a decree at the time when a discussion on the Constitution began it would have been branded as a lazarone or someone who did not want to make the interest of the country, compared to those who instead take Twitter as the main means of communication. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Donno]] Once again we say this to the Government, here well represented by the Subsecretaries (even if the first row of the government benches remains totally empty): come to the Commission, come to us; be present, as the senators of our Group and the opposition groups do, to debate. Compare yourselves in the Commission and do the same times as we do. We have no problems, we represent worthyly the citizens who elected us; we want to see if you are able to respect the prospects you have given to citizens through information. You sell yourself well in the press, as Mr Boschi did yesterday when he went to tell the citizens to stay calm because there will be no problem with constitutional reforms: a referendum will also be held in the end. What are they looking for, the plebiscite like the one that led to the unity of this ganghered country, taking it and changing it perhaps in the ballot boxes? Is this democracy that you want to perpetuate? In view of this, then, Mr President, I wonder what we are doing in this debate; what are we discussing here? I'll bring you another topic. In the very title of the decree-law we speak of the immediate definition of compliances deriving from European legislation. Senators, if you do not know, there is a Commission, the 14th, which has as its primary aim to transpose, in the ascending and descending phase, everything that concerns European legislation and the adjustments of our country. The 14th Commission has always found an excellent balance in the relationship between majority and opposition, until it has reached even a short time for the definition of European law and the law of European delegation. We have continued the work; after that the government arrived and imposed a decree-law that absorbs five articles of European law. We then asked the government whether we should assume that all the work we did up to that time was worth nothing; if the work done in the Chamber of Deputies, where European law was passed in the same articles that are instead rewritten in the decree-law, was worth nothing. Well, the answer of Undersecretary Gozi was cutting: yes, your work is worth nothing; the Government has decided another way. I wonder, then, what are we doing in the Commission to debate in order to find parliamentary balances? This is an autocratic government, which decides for itself what is good and what is bad and if there is no pride on the part of this Senate, it will decide also what is the most comfortable opposition: the silent opposition, of course; the opposition that does not oppose, that has nothing to say about what the Government does! I also address the President of the Commission, Senator Marinello. A few days ago the pleas to pay attention, because an article in Community law had been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, Article 20, which concerns live calls, one of the many arguments in the law, on which a difficult balance had been found, having also been approved by oppositions. I urged that this situation be taken into account in the Commission, adding that we should be careful because, as far as I can see, Secretary Gozi had no intention of transposing what was done to the House of Deputies. The answer was simple: "The Commission will assert its authority." The authority lasted the good of a few hours, because then it was all rewritten and deleted. So I am still addressing you, Mr President: what are we doing here? What are we doing here and what are we doing in the Commission? What is a Commission doing to transpose European legislation, if everything is then reabsorbed by the government of empire, into a decree-law for its own use and consumption? That's what you have to question. Today we wonder whether what is contained in this decree is good or not, is more or less valid, depending on the criteria of majority or opposition, but it is the method that does not work. It is a method that leads the Government to issue decrees in superimposition with the bill without even considering the implementation of the same bill or decrees, so in the Ministries to date there are more than 800 implementing decrees that must still be enacted, without which there is no capacity of the law approved, neither by the Chamber of Deputies nor by the Senate, to have value. So I ask myself once again, Madam President, and I do so in a rhetorical way: what are we doing here? Should we wait for President Renzi's reforms to be carried out in order to understand this? Or is this a senate that has now turned towards a drift, a bow, like my speech that begins to conclude? Madam President, we have to ask ourselves about these matters, even before what is being brought before us: what is our significance? Do we still make sense? Personally, I'm afraid not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u20	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u21	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress the unevenness of the measures contained in the decree-law, which is already clear from the same title: yet another omnibus decree. In fact, we go from the agricultural sector to the energy sector, from environmental protection and to school construction. Dishomogeneous measures, but united by a single denominator: do everything without spending. Or, at least, to make believe that everything can be done but, in essence, as we have seen in so many measures and not least in this, do not give concrete answers for the relaunch of the country. It would have been preferable to divide these rules into several decree-laws, in relation to the sector concerned by measures to boost competitiveness and by the different degree of necessity and urgency of the latter. Thus, we would have had the opportunity to look into the issues on the table and make them more relevant to citizens' demands. Yet, the issues addressed are important. I am referring above all to the revival of the agricultural sector and the urgent need for the country to encourage youth self-entrepreneurship. The decree provides for provisions in favour of young farmers working non-owned land. Direct farmers and professional farmers under thirty-five years old are granted a deduction of the costs incurred for the rent of agricultural land of 19%, but set a limit of 80 euros for each hectare rented and a ceiling of 1,200 euros per year. The aid for young people is needed, Madam President, to prevent the desertification of the countryside. The future generation of agro-entrepreneurs must not fail, as they are important and not only in words, as you are showing now, but more than ever in the management of the territory. In fact, the farmer is the best ally of the territory, but the conditions are needed to ensure the income of farmers, otherwise the real abandonment of the land is threatened. In the last year, it was precisely young people who contributed more significantly to the growth of agricultural employment, as people under 35 years of age increased by 5.1 percent. Agricultural enterprises, if they are in a position to do so, can offer concrete and valuable opportunities and opportunities, especially for young people and also for economic recovery. But if, on the one hand, we want to help farmers, especially and rightly young people, by granting them a series of facilities, on the other hand, this government penalizes them. Lately these are considered by this Government as an ATM from which to withdraw. Suffice it to say that within the same Article 7 of this decree on the one hand a tax deduction is granted for direct farmers and professional farmers and, on the other hand, to cover financially this article, the revaluations of the dominical and agricultural income apply to it. Once again, it is a prestigious game that makes money appear on the one hand and, on the other, it makes them disappear. Not only in this decree are farmers mocked, but also, last, in the recent decree no. 66 of 2014, better known as IRPEF decree. In fact, in it there is a deadly fiscal tightening up for Italian agriculture, in particular of mountains and hills, which disadvantages a part of agricultural production fabric (about three quarters of the national agricultural area) and which in fact cancels the IMU exemption on hill and mountain agricultural land. In this way small farms in the inland areas have been further penalised, whose role as a safeguard of the territory should be valued and supported. This is yet another demonstration that in politics deception is often miscelebrated with adulterated words, making it likely for people what they are not. Someone the other day said that in politics lies are not needed; perhaps, instead, this government needs a lot. The Northern League, with an amendment to the decree under consideration, proposed to remove this additional gabella to the detriment of the farmers, asking for the deletion of the provision contained in the IRPEF decree to reaffirm that agriculture has always been a strategic sector for the Italian economy. Unfortunately, however, we were not heard by the government. So this government has once again responded spades. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is also regrettable that the proverbial political selfishness of this political majority renders it incapable of accepting the opposition's proposals, even if it is instrumental in its content. However, we are interested in the good of the volunteers of the National Corps of Alpine and speleological relief; this, gentlemen, is and remains our victory, which we hope will also be extended to other representatives of the world of volunteering. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, another issue that I have been fighting for with my colleagues personally (the Group itself believed it) is the elimination for the volunteers of the Alpine Aid of taxation on the request for reimbursement (gabella, so let's call it) for the missed days of work. Again it is an unfair burden that self-employed volunteers, and not employees, went to pay. Here again you wanted to put your political visa by not giving credit and not accepting our amendment, just to stamp this choice. We are aware that the goal and the achievement of the objective put us before these political dwindlings of yours, but we look to the result. We would also have liked to have deepened the debate in this House some important issues that remain unresolved. Let us think, for example, of the proposal to exclude photovoltaic plants from the payment of the IMU, which in this case too, if approved, would benefit citizens while promoting the use of clean energy. We hope that the Government will not decide to resort to yet another confidence (of course we already know that it will be placed in the day) because this will not give Parliament the opportunity to complete in a fruitful and constructive way the examination of the decree-law. Once again, the opposition's proposals, the serious and concrete amendments that we had proposed and therefore a debate that could be held in this House will be destroyed and the opposition will not have the opportunity to express opinions and proposals that, through interventions that we believe are intelligent and of common sense for the citizens, will not be accepted once again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u22	Senator De Pin is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u23	As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u24	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u25	Madam President, it has been said abundantly this morning, also in the speeches of other Members, that this day is useless because the question of trust in the decree will be raised. I take the opportunity to remind Senator Zanda that even today money has been spent. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Money has been used for the printing of the amendments, for the packages that have been forwarded to the Commission and for everything else. How come Senator Zanda doesn't even worry about this useless day? How come he doesn't say anything? Or does that apply only to the subject of reforms? The savings must always be made, day by day, if we want Italy to actually move forward. Having said that, I would like to introduce a very important subject which concerns this decree-law on competitiveness, which has nothing to do with competitiveness. I would like to start by reading a document that has been sent to us by the buffalo sector, thus entering into the substance of the measure. Despite, as I said, trust will be placed, I still want to inform people that in the measure there are some fundamental points that the Government certainly does not want to take into account. As I said, the agricultural sector of buffalo farming is a very important industrial sector. Farmers in this sector produce products (let me play a game of words) which are very important for the national economy. Therefore, they produce a GDP. 90% of the production of mozzarella DOP is concentrated in the regions of Puglia, Basilicata, Campania and Lazio. Yet this sector is not being exploited as it should. We were talking to the farmers; we went directly to talk to them to try to understand what their difficulties were and what the solutions could be prepared together, without of course having the presumption of possessing the magic wand. Contrary to what is demanded in other areas, they have not asked us, neither tax breaks or special deductions, nor who knows how to facilitate the economic part. No, they asked us for transparency. Why is this happening in the buffalo compartment? It happens that the Ministry's website denounces the milking of some garments once a month or, even, sometimes, even once a week. This means that neither milk nor milk produced are traceable. This is a serious matter. What did the Campanian farmers tell us, specifically? We are told that they use a daily traceability system, which means that they communicate every day on this site, which is a free resource: this activity is done on a non-paying site. There is therefore no increase for the State or even for the citizens; there is no penalty. This site gives the possibility to track on time the income and outputs of products, processed products and - above all - of garments that are milked. Unfortunately, however, this is not done for all types of food. What I'd like to mean right now is that the key word...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u26	Senator Donno, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u27	WOMAN (M5S). Yeah, I'll finish. What I wanted to mean are three key words, namely quality, traceability and controls, which we demand for all the food and agricultural sectors, as well as for the environment, if we want to protect workers and products, which must be evaluated anyway, as well as made in Italy. These are the essential prerequisites. I shall conclude by saying that, despite the fact that controls are being carried out, there is always someone who can get the products out of the back door. Well, let's commit ourselves: I ask the Government to make a formal commitment not only to protect and ensure that these controls are carried out, but also to use as many instruments as possible in the power of the State towards these sectors, which need to continue to move forward in order to work with dignity and honesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u28	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my brief speech on such a comprehensive and complex decree, I shall confine myself to presenting in this debate only the issues relating to Article 16, which have to do with hunting. I shall confine myself to this, even though there has been an enormous amount of amending work in the Commission and in my Group, for which I would like to thank Mr Zanda and Mr Mirabelli, who have worked together with Mr Scalfarotto to try to find a mediation. The saddest and most painful subject of this article 16 concerns live calls. Europe, through Article 8 of the Birds Directive, prohibits the capture of wild birds - and I stress this - and lists the means which must in particular be prohibited by the Member States. These prohibited means include catch nets. Despite this ban, Italy has continued to catch wild birds with nets for years, breaking the directive until the European Commission intervened in 2010. What happens in 2010? Italy is under investigation, under the so-called EU Pilot procedure, which precedes the infringement procedure. Why are we under investigation? Wild birds have been caught for years to make them alive. Italy, and in particular the current Government, admits the problem and undertakes to resolve it. In December 2013, the Italian Government drew up a draft law that sent to the Commission: however, the text is extremely mild and nothing provides for new, except that the capture and use of recalls continue through a derogation regime. For this reason, the Commission rejected the text, opening the infringement procedure in February 2014. The text rejected by the European Commission is the same as that approved in the House by European law and will therefore not prevent referral back to the Court of Justice. Let us make a little specific: what is Europe asking us not to be referred to the Court of Justice? The European Commission expressly calls for Italy to ban the capture of birds with an explicit ban: it asks us that networks do not exist and we specify, ladies and gentlemen - I know that I speak in a context of educated and culturally high people - that there are no selective networks. You can say to a small lark: "Fly to the right, so the net does not catch you, rather than to the left"? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There are no selective networks, we can't fool ourselves! The law cannot provide for structural derogations; Europe tells us that structural derogations are not allowed. Last point (anyone who frequents other countries of Europe knows it well): you can do without the live calls. You can hunt without calls, you can hunt with calls to the mouth, with whistles; you can hunt in some other way. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Tell your party! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Ciampollo, be quiet and let Senator Cirinna speak, who speaks like everyone else and has the right to express her opinion. [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] Please, Senator Cirinna. This, Mr Ciampolillo, is called friendly fire in terms of hunting. It is an issue on which transversality is important. Be careful. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo.]] Let us return to the Government and to what the Government had done: Article 16 of the Competitiveness Decree. We said that what had been included in European law was not good. In fact, the Government understands, abandons the text of the European law and responds with a new text: Article 16 (1) and (3) of Decree-Law No 91. The new text, the one that came to the Commission's examination, contains the European request to explicitly prohibit the capture of recalls, although it still allowed a general reference to derogations with the use of only farm calls. It would have been - I am forced to use a verb in the past - a small step forward, however, that Europe could somehow have appreciated, freezing the referral and testing us. Those who support and support, in this debate and in the debate on trust, that mine and ours (of other senators) is an ideological position must ask themselves why the government had instead transposed this reformulation, and, because you changed it with an amendment, you must say that the Government is ideological too. Let's explain to those who are listening to us. The live calls are small migratory birds (loodles, blackbirds, cesenas, thrushes), captured and used by hunters to attract their fellowmen through singing. Why do we have to attract them? We need to lure them in so we can shoot them. These animals nest with great effort and dedication in Northern Europe, wean their young in autumn and leave for the journey of migration to southern Europe, to Italy. In Italy, in many cases, they find the net that captures them. Forced into small cages of a few square centimetres, from that moment on begins their life of imprisonment. Among the many forms of mistreatment, there is that of the artificial suit: the tearing of the feathers, so that they can change them and then, after the suit, spring comes and you sing. Why do you sing? One sings to attract one's fellows, to whom, in fact, one shoots himself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, by responding to my colleague's friendly fire. There has been a great deal of work in the Commission, for which I would like to thank many of my colleagues, particularly Mrs Puppato, who also had the courage to vote against the reformulation. There was an amendment, which, however, was endorsed by the Government, which allows the granting of regional authorisations within the strict limits laid down in Law 157 of 1992. Ask yourself why (who of you and who of us, like me, is an expert in parliamentary practices) in the reformulation of the Government, is not foreseen the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment has asked to get out, not to participate in that process in which ISPRA and the State-Regions Conference will be asked to authorize derogations. Our Ministry of the Environment probably does not want to help throw Italy back into the European fine and procedure. Madam President, my request to the Government, if still possible, is that of all those associations (LIPU, LAV, ENPA) that have collected hundreds of thousands of signatures on www.avaaz.org or www.change.org. My request is that of the signatories to the amendment; only in my party are Senators Puppato, Amati, Granaiola, Valentini, D'Adda, Senator Lo Giudice and many others. We were at over 22 signatures, President Zanda, in the Democratic Party, and you know what and how much pain it is to deal with these issues, even in a disruptive way. Many of us had asked for a sign of difference. Finally, allow me a moral and cultural consideration. The live calls are truly an aberrant, futile, superfluous and violent practice towards wild animals, these small migratory birds who live their whole life traveling and flying. They travel tens of thousands of kilometers; the journey for them is life, it is in their DNA. How is it possible to lock them in cages for the rest of their lives? However, I believe that this is only a first step, although negative, because this battle of civilization can still be won. I am sure that my Party, a governing party, will support us on this. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Berger. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u30	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to stress that in Article 4 (8) of this Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 there is a regulatory deficit concerning GMOs. You will recall that this House, about a year ago, had unanimously approved an agenda in which the Senate expressed itself in the direction of banning the cultivation of GMOs in general, while allowing research on GMOs in closed laboratories. We still lacked and lacked - we hope to fill the gap by approving this decree-law today - a sanctioning system for those who use GMO seeds in crops. I would like to reiterate something that we have also discussed in the Health Commission. It is not that we, with this rule, establish that GMOs are harmful to health. Reading the agenda that the Senate had unanimously approved, it is learned that the Government was asked to accept a safeguard rule against GMOs already applied by countries such as France and Germany. This is because there is still no clear scientific evidence on the effects of GMOs on health, while the prohibition on the cultivation of GMO seeds has basically economic reasons: for Italian agriculture, the choice has been made to move in the direction of biodiversity rather than towards standardisation, which, almost inevitably, follows the use of GMO seeds. With this rule we have a regulatory deficit, because so far there have been sanctions only for those who traded GMOs for human use, and not for those who produced them. The Commission accepted a proposal from the Health Commission which suggested not to provide for prison sentences in this respect, but to step up administrative sanctions, as has actually been decided. I think that what has been achieved is a step forward towards a choice of agricultural policy that Italy shares with other major countries and which I believe will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u32	We greet a group of people from the Sacred Heart Oratory of Omegna, in the province of Verbania, visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u33	Madam President, I begin my speech by thanking my colleagues, the rapporteurs and also the Government who have worked hard these days to allow us today to convert this decree-law into law. It contains a number of very important elements that have already been mentioned by a number of colleagues, but I would like to highlight some aspects that concern the concrete life of companies. There are rules that certainly go in the right direction to improve the relationship between the state and businesses and others that go to correct the conditions that have certainly created problems: I refer, in particular, to the system of control of the traceability of waste (SISTRI) and to the system of traceability of special waste. Think, with the decree-law under consideration, after great debates and comparisons with business associations, we further move the entry into force of SISTRI to 31 December 2014 and on 31 December 2015 we close the contract signed with the company Selex in 2009. It is therefore a definitely not positive experience that goes to end, but to which we try to give a positive vision anyway, because in our country the topic of traceability is definitely linked not only to the exercise of the enterprises, but also to the legality. The second more general consideration is linked to the fact that next time some topics dealt with in the decree-law in question will have to be addressed in a more strategic way. We are noticing precisely through this decree what is the difficulty of our institutional system. We need to deal strategically with certain issues, but Parliament's inability to do so makes it necessary for the government to act through the decree-laws. Today, however, some issues are dealt with in an overall way and, for example, the issue of energy is one of them: decree by decree, we deal with small pieces that touch on some aspects, but clearly the National Energy Strategy (SEN) must be addressed in a more comprehensive way and today the instruments must be put in place in a different way. I am making this assessment precisely in conclusion because I believe that there is a link between what we are doing today in the conversion of the decree-law and the debate we are having on the reforms. If we don't make this connection, I don't think we're serving the country. Today we must realise that, when we debate the decrees, we are dealing with specific issues, but only the overall reform of the institutions will allow us to be, just as Parliament, more effective and more active towards the problems of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caleo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the measure we are going to vote on is very important in order to help our economy create good jobs, simplify long and sometimes cumbersome procedures. I agree with those who have expressed the difficulty of approaching this measure, which is very articulated, with different disciplines among themselves and from this point of view I wanted to thank the two Presidents and colleagues of the Environment and Industry Commissions, the Government, the technicians who have worked with us for days, with dozens and dozens of hearings, with night sessions that have led, in my opinion, to improve this measure. I believe that in the end it comes out of the work of the Commissions, with the contribution of all, even with the important one of the oppositions, a different text, more responsive to the needs of this country. I believe that the objective has been achieved: competitiveness and improvement of the economic situation. One of the points, perhaps the most important, was the reduction in the cost of energy for small and medium-sized enterprises, a ballast that we could not afford in times of crisis. Here, the clear example of how a government measure, albeit good, can be improved even more, I believe that it resides here, because the text that came out of the Commissions increases the coverage for the deduction of 10% for small and medium-sized enterprises and will all add, under regime, to about 1.5 billion, improving also the areas from which these resources were to be taken. There has been a price to pay: this is what the Environment Commission's Parent Group says, which, together with its party, has worked over the last few months to support clean energy in every way and to achieve the objectives that not only Europe but the whole world must set itself. I am thinking above all of renewable energy issues and, among them, of photovoltaics. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years this sector has enjoyed, in terms of incentives, perhaps excessive measures: several billion incentives that have produced a good environmental policy, but also easy enrichments. So we tried, in the Commission, to keep the blow going, trying to say that from there to a de facto repeal of the incentives there was a middle way and this middle way we found it, trying to mitigate, as I said earlier, the cut towards photovoltaics, which will see, yes, some retouching, but not to the extent with which it had started. I believe that this is an important objective that has been achieved thanks to the contribution of the Democratic Party, but also to the support of all the groups present in the Commission. Clean energy and jobs: I believe this is the road map for the coming months of our Government in Europe. More opportunities for clean energy producers and a reflection on the way and policies to be implemented to achieve the new and more important goals that we have set ourselves: a decrease in the climate gases, an increase in the energy efficiency of buildings and, in general, of our country. We have achieved important results of modification, I quote one for all: the exemption of the system charges for installations under 3 kilowatt hours. We have proposed an increase in the range from 200 to 500 kilowatt hours of the exchange on the spot: it has not been accepted by the Budget Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, but it seems to me that the Government was in agreement with this proposal. I believe that on this point - and I say this to Vice-Minister De Vincenti - we will have to return to it with a special measure. If we succeed, I would ask you to turn that amendment into an agenda. However, in this decree-law are also contained important pieces of environmental policy that our country must carry out. I was just telling you about the 2030 climate gas targets. I believe that some pieces that can contribute to achieving those goals are within Decree-Law No 91. 350 million is earmarked for energy efficiency. I believe that this is a first step, not enough but important in that direction because among the three objectives that we must achieve that of energy efficiency was the most lacking, the most in difficulty. It is clear that man interferes heavily on climate change, but he also has the possibility, through concrete actions, to counter this drift; and in the measure under consideration there are important resources to achieve this objective. During the debate in the Commission and in the media, we discussed some important points which, in my opinion, have hidden other measures included in this decree-law. I can think of two of them, but there are others: bioshoppers, of which I will tell you later, as well as important action against marine pollution and more incisive standards on the carts of the sea. The bioshopper one, I think, is a very important result, perhaps a little neglected. We have inserted a rule that establishes the immediate entry into force of the financial penalty for the payment of a sum ranging from 2,500 to 25,000 euros, which is multiplied in case of large quantities, for the smart guys who, in spite of the ban started in January 2011, continue to market bags of plastic or false bioshoppers not biodegradable and not compostable according to the specific European standard. I would like to stress that since 2011 in our country the quantity of plastic bags placed on the market has been halved, favouring the development of a branch of the green economy and bioplastic producers. I believe that this measure, with certain sanctions, can increase the important green economy market. As for Ilva, it has been the subject of the first important measure that I have dealt with since I was sitting in the Senate. We have not withdrawn one millimeter from the approach that the Democratic Party has taken in recent years. Our supervisory work on the environmental rehabilitation of the Taranto industry continues. We have included and approved measures within the text which, in line with what has already been done in recent months, speed up the implementation of the recovery. The powers conferred on the sub-commissary who coordinates and is solely responsible for the implementation of the measures provided for in the plan have increased and, in agreement with the Extraordinary Commissioner, defines its structure, its operating arrangements and the annual programme of financial resources necessary to cope with the interventions. I also believe that a historic result has been achieved. [[Brusio.]] I would also like the House to pay attention to this point. A historic result - I said - has been achieved by establishing the possibility for the judge to transfer to the commissary the sums coming from the Riva assets subject to criminal seizure, also in relation to criminal proceedings other than those for environmental crimes or related to the implementation of the integrated environmental authorisation, precisely in order to complete the environmental recovery. I think they are strong signals compared to both bioshoppers and ILVA, as well as those using the so-called ships of the sea, to carry out dangerous transports of fuel and other pollutants. So these are serious, rigorous, certain answers to those who pollute. These are the most important, important points that we have discussed. There's more. I am reminded of the part linked to the greater powers of the Presidents of the Regional Councils to spend resources on hydrogeological failure; the fact that interventions in this area can be removed from the Stability Pact; the interventions regarding environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental assessment; the simplified procedures for amendments. Senator colleagues, we are in a situation where all the sites that need Bonifice are still because the rules are incredibly intricate. With this measure we have tried to simplify to make those sites available to those who want to invest, not using other virgin land, but using those land. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, I invite you to conclude. Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, I believe that there is still a lot to do, but I also believe that there are important attitudes on these measures that our country must take towards the government and complex situations. Who like us has the honour of sitting on these scrabbles must be aware of the fact that the conflict, sometimes hard, harsh, must be governed with intelligence and competence and with respect for the laws. Typhus, extremism, Manichaeism that has never had any success in the history of peoples produce nothing; perhaps they make some headlines in the newspaper or immediate returns that burn immediately, guarantee a short-term consensus, but little or nothing can affect the resolution of problems. This is our ambitious task, my fellow senators, which must be even more rigorous in times of crisis. Who has the ambition to govern complex phenomena must have the ability to dialogue and inclusion with everyone. It's difficult, I know, it's hard, I know, but I think it's the only way, not only political, but cultural, to come out of a cycle that has definitely weakened us, but at the same time, if used with wisdom, it can get us out even stronger and more authoritative. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u36	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u37	I call the rapporteur, Senator Cucchetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some people have said these days: While I work to create jobs, to create employment opportunities for Italians, senators lose time and slow down. I believe that the commitment shown by the Commissions and the House on this competitiveness decree has also proved to those who wanted to have doubts that this Parliament has been able to carry out in the time required for its task. We expect the deliberations that we will then take to be carried out by the Commission within the agreed deadlines. Members have extensively illustrated, in particular Senator Caleo's last speech, the contents of the competitiveness decree and the work that the Commissions have done. In this reply, it is up to me to take into account two particular political points which have emerged in the course of our work. The first concerns the possible impact of Article 26 on public accounts. In some interventions it was assumed that such an impact could be there; I believe that a more careful reading of the rule in question can serenely exclude it for two reasons, the first method and the other of merit. The reason for the method is that, as one should know, laws of this kind are reasoned, weighed and, finally, inserted or not inserted for their effects on public finance by ISTAT and the Bank of Italy with reference in particular to the possible effects on debt. Secondly, ISTAT transfers everything to Eurostat. This is usually the case, it is the practice, it always happens. But we, in order to be more calm, have also inserted a paragraph that resumes this procedure and subordinates the implementation of the "cartularizzazione" (the so-called one for the need of synthesis though it may be a bit 'improper) of the future incentives of the renewable sector to the effective verification by the MEF of the impacts that it can have on public finance or not. For a technician this clarification could be pleonastic, but for the tranquility of all melius abundare quam deficere. From the point of view of merit, however, the norm is constructed in such a way that everything happens according to the rules of the private sector and therefore, precisely thanks to this approach or operational characteristic, that it is different from other ideas of the past that brought up the GSE (Gestor of the energy services), the norm, in my opinion, will not have any effect on the public finance. Of course, it will take a great deal of effort from the Government and the Energy Authority to implement it. There will be work and work to be done, but if we succeed - as I trust we can succeed and as can be seen from the first findings I have had from the production sector and from the lenders of the same - this rule can work and bring a very large advantage in terms of reducing the incentives that will be paid from here on; a greater advantage of the most aggressive measures that, thanks to the implementation of this rule, will no longer have a continuous character until the end of the incentive period (so for the next 15, 16, 17 or 18 years, those who remain at the different energy accounts), but will have a provisional character. I add, always to remind people of the reality of the facts and not the slogans, that if you work well you can get, within the first half of the year, to implement this operation. The first months of the year are those in which production is lower and incentives are lower, so from a cut in incentives that would have been at least 300-400 million for so many years, we would arrive at a one-off cut, in fact, of 100-150 million in all, on a flow of over 4 billion each year. Therefore, we have worked hard to give a positive development and outlet to this problem, to unite the general interest of the economic system to have a slightly lighter bill, as Senator Caleo recalled, to the interest of the country to maintain a good reputation at international level. To date I have not responded to the ambassadors who have written expressing their concerns (this morning the letter of the Russian ambassador arrived); in the afternoon, to the things done, we will write giving account not of intentions but of facts. If I may add a more general comment on the policies of the Government and Parliament that this decree, and in particular its energy part, suggest, I would say that in this way we are working on what economists call factor policy, that is, we make access to energy sources more convenient, lighter the bill. This must not distract us from industrial policy in the strict sense, because the pure policy of factors is not enough to support the Italian manufacturing industry; it also takes something else, and I have not heard any great ideas so far. I would like to see a debate and above all a far more robust discussion than has been the case so far. The other point on which I would like to say a few words in conclusion is the confession of a moment of impotence. You see, when you arrive at this stage you rightly tend to exalt the work done, to emphasize its positive potential for the country, and it is right that it is so. However, in a Chamber where we exercise not only the ethics of conviction but also the ethics of responsibility, it must be said, in my personal opinion, that the conclusion that there has been on the question of compound interests - I call them by their own name, rather than by the word "anatocism," which almost recalls a medieval disease - has not been a conclusion as much as the responsibilities that a political class that can guide the country must be able to exercise. The complaints that arose from the country on this issue are justified by a state of real suffering, by the economy that slows down, but are the external manifestation of a disease that is within the country. The problem of the relationship between business and the banking system is not solved by preventing the counting of interest on expired interests: it is a problem that is solved by reforming the banking system of this country. So, instead of feeling demagogic that leaves things as they are, I hope that, in agreement with the Government, a reflection will be opened and a reform of the single bank text of 1993, which has failed its main objectives, will be launched. The intentions were excellent, but in these twenty years the world has reserved us many and such surprises that that legislative system is the basis of the difficulties of the banking system to be useful to the country. It takes a different step, we have to descend from the sky of slogans to the hard earth, where we face problems and give solutions that are up to the expectations of what remains one of the great manufacturing and commercial countries of the world. You see, if any of us borrow money from someone else by promising him an interest as it is normal and then lends it to a third person in exchange for an interest, if this person does not pay him, how will he honor his commitment to the one who originally lent the money? You have to think about these things. I can understand that the recalculation of interest on a quarterly basis is a coercion and in fact the text of the Government, which I personally appreciated for its balance, proposed the recalculation on an annual basis, as happens in all the most advanced and civilized countries in the world. The alternative, as the Bank of Italy has reminded us, is Islamic finance, where the compound interest is not expected but is still charged in another way on the initial price and the conditions of the financing. The compound interest is transparent, if it is done well; Islamic finance is opaque. The Commissions and the Government themselves have not been able to decide better on this point. The article that was present in the Government's bill was deleted also because it was not adequately supported by the government, which had also written it. I believe that the Government and Parliament must have a serious commitment to address not only this, which is one of which, but the general theme of the function of credit in an advanced country such as Italy, without hiding behind the last pages of a liberalism, which did not work, in the name of fidelity and intellectual and cultural subordination to models that have failed and that have been at the origin of the financial crisis of the last five or six years. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Gambaro and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u39	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marinello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the last line, to the reply, on a measure which has seen the two Commissions engaged in dozens and dozens of working sessions. In my reply, I will have to go back a little bit to the comments I have already made in this House, because, listening yesterday and, to be honest, this morning too, I have the impression that some of the things that have been said do not take account of reality and, above all, of what has been done. It is not possible - I repeat - to underestimate what has been done in the two Commissions during the investigation of the measure. It is not possible to pick up the tens and tens and tens of hours spent together in confronts and debates, even tight ones, in which the debate and the confrontation have become more arduous, but with the only understanding of getting to the end of shared solutions. It obviously does not mean totally shared, because it is part of the rules of the game and of democracy that, in the end, a decision is reached and that, in the final decisions, the right of the majority to express a complete idea must prevail. In these tens of sessions and in these hundreds of hours spent together, I can say, in full consciousness, that the provision has been considerably implemented in the contents, improved, enriched and that a number of things, contained in the basic text, in the original presentation of the Government, have also been corrected. Therefore, I am here today, with a bit of pride, to reaffirm the dignity of this Parliamentary House, which has done its job well and has shown, first to itself, how we can and how we must interpret the role of the legislator in a democracy that has been accomplished. More than 150 amendments have been adopted, as I said in my presentation (but I see here so many colleagues who were not present yesterday and I find it useful to remember that). Among these amendments, a great many of them have been supported by oppositions: from those oppositions which yesterday, and even today, have expressed considerations absolutely not coincident with the same amendments and with the same votes that they have often expressed. But this obviously does not shock us. It's part of the rules of the game, which are also these. Then there are some things that could not be done. We all know how heavy the casket of Article 81 of the Constitution is but, of course, colleagues in the Budget Commission have a difficult task, a task that is sometimes unfriendly, but it is a task that must be respected. In fact, if there is a rule such as Article 81, it exists because, of course, it is necessary to guarantee the soundness of the state's budget from activities or actions not carried out in the interest of the country. The budget committee, which is to be thanked here, has also done an excellent job of investigating. There was the mannaja of Article 81, and it is clear that even some things that we had interest and intention to do could not be accomplished. But we do not and do not blame anyone for this, because we have the maturity and the awareness of knowing that we do what we can, but with the resources available. We, with the resources available, have done everything we can and, from this point of view, we have neither regret nor scrupulous conscience. This is the work we have done and we are also, legitimately, a little proud of it. Then we heard a series of polemics in these last days, controversy that press agencies and some professional associations have fueled. It is clear, in fact, that with the work of the Commissions, but also in the basic text, they have gone to touch strong powers in this country. But Parliament cannot be the victim of strong powers or established interests. We realize that, by the law of communicating vessels, sometimes, in order to create conditions of equilibrium, it is necessary, or may be necessary, to go to affect the rents of position or even of the interests preconstituted. This happens and sometimes happens even in an unpleasant way. However, we must realise that this is necessary. This is a country where everyone always complains about absolutely shared things: the cost of work, a complicated and slow bureaucracy, the cost of energy. Then, however, when we go to intervene to combat the lengths of bureaucracy, corporations come out; when we go to introduce rules to reduce the cost of energy, other kinds of interests come out; when we go to intervene to create labour standards that make the whole contractual subject more streamlined so that we arrive at a rebalancing of rights and duties, the logics and pressures of corporations come out. But in doing so, you don't go anywhere. Today we have a duty to bring the country towards modernity, not step by step: it is no longer a time for light passage or moderation. We need to bring the country, almost in a hurry, towards a modernity that we must not conceive as a fashion or a trend, but as a duty towards the younger generations and those who will follow us; towards those young people, those millions and millions of young people who have studied and, therefore, with their sacrifice and their families, are there to wait and ask essentially answers. These are the real emergencies of the country and we have a duty to move forward on this path. Everything else is sterile polemic and we leave the sterile polemics out of this House, but above all, out of our conscience. I was saying that we have a duty to move forward on this road: we have an interest in moving forward on this road and, because we believe that we are a serious, adult and mature political class, we have the strength to do so and we have also demonstrated it in these hours. We have demonstrated this when, with wisdom and balance, we have all listened, because the duty of politics is to listen to everyone; we have accepted a number of demands, but, in the transposition, we have finally decided, taking full advantage of the weight and consequences of our decisions. I have to give notice to the government. Sometimes we did not agree on a number of approaches, but, in the end, the Government was respectful in the Commission of the wills that were being determined and that were being determined. There has never been an exaltation of the role of parliamentarians, as with this decree-law - I have been casting the parliamentary classrooms for many years - that role of parliamentarians that, perhaps, today, seems out of fashion; that maybe someone would like to compress and someone else would perhaps want to exonerate. As I said, never as with this decree-law have there been the work of parliamentarians and an exaltation of their role. In the end we produced a text which, in a series of subjects (in the agricultural and environmental sectors and in the energy and financial sectors) has - in my opinion - created the premises for a reversal of trend and to give a signal to those who work and important productive categories; to give a signal to those foreign markets that are waiting precisely for our country to prove to be adapted to the challenges of the third millennium. I realize then that perhaps a number of things have not found acceptance, but, as I said earlier, we have had to take into account the times and, above all, the resources available. Let us remember, however, that politics is not the art of all or nothing, and I turn to colleagues present here who have a cultural affinity with me, having done the same path of study: everything or nothing is a law of nature that applies to certain physical and biological phenomena, but in economics and above all in politics does not exist. On the contrary, there is that of possible and the art of mediation. We have done this and I believe that we have done it well, in the interests of the country. I would like to thank once again all the Members of Parliament, both majority and opposition, the officials and staff of the Senate - as we have already done in the premises - the whole Government, which has collaborated with us, through the people of the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the Subsecretaries, who have been the continuous interface of the Commission's work, they and their offices. For once, we have shown that we are worthy of the role we play. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u42	What do you wish to speak on, Senator Santangelo? We're in the process of replicating.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u43	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, in the absence of any misunderstandings, I would like to announce that I will be requesting the floor immediately after the reply of the representative of the Government to make use of Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure. I now announce it to you, so that there are no misunderstandings later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Professor De Vincenti, has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure which the Government has presented to the Senate and which today, after the fruitful work of the Commissions, we propose to the House for its approval has a very important economic policy significance. We know that the economic recovery is still very uncertain and weak and that we need to strengthen it, giving a boost to our country, to allow us to look to the future and finally reopen a phase of growth. This measure is part of a line of government that has made economic recovery the key point of its strategy, to give a future to the young generations and a hope to the Italian families. We have already issued a very important decree last spring, among others going in the same direction, that is to support the purchasing capacity of families with the bonus of 80 euros. Again in those measures, we have foreseen the reduction of IRAP for businesses; we have continued with simplification measures. Today we are presenting in the Chamber the text of a decree that, with the corrections made by the Commissions, places at the centre the need to give a boost to the competitiveness of our country, so that that recovery still uncertain and stain of leopard will consolidate, strengthen and take effect. In several interventions it has been said that the decree covers too large an area of subjects. Instead, we would like to stress that the subjects covered by the decree all have a meaning from the point of view of supporting the Italian economy. Agriculture is a key sector of the Made in Italy and qualifying Italian economy, which we want to revitalize. Then there is the environment as a challenge for the economy and new opportunities for the economy. The green economy is a difficult challenge, which lies in the fact that the entire economic system internalises environmental needs and therefore creates a new type of economic development not only compatible with the environment, but which makes the environment itself a backbone. There are interventions on companies, aimed at stimulating investment and thus adding new measures to some previous interventions, such as the so-called "New Sabatini," of which an amendment approved in the Commission has allowed for further strengthening. We know that the New Sabatini is pulling and that the companies are currently drawing from the funds of the New Sabatini. To this and to the tax credit for research and development (based on the decree-law "destination Italy" last January and of which we are about to issue the implementing decree), two particularly important steps are added: the tax credit for incremental investments in new capital goods, which will be an important tool for companies in the coming months to increase the investment activity. It therefore gives a boost on the investment side to domestic demand, as well as with the bonus of 80 euros we have aimed to give a boost to domestic demand on the consumption side. Here we work on the investment side and, in order to strengthen the investment activity of the enterprises, the decree provides for a strengthening of the so-called ACE, that allows the enterprises to have a reduction of the taxation through a more favorable treatment of the own capital. Therefore, the capitalization of companies is strengthened, as is the drive to quote companies, so that companies are able, with increased capitalization and listing, to leverage and to have more financial resources for investments. We accompany this with simplification measures for companies to access credit from new funding channels. Then there is the energy package, which affects one of the fundamental costs for Italian companies: we know in particular that, on the side of small and medium-sized enterprises, the cost of energy is significantly higher than in other European countries and that this is a handicap to the competitiveness of the widespread fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, a pivot and a tradition of the Italian economic system. Therefore, reducing the price of energy for small and medium-sized enterprises is a fundamental act for us to make a contribution to the competitiveness of the Italian economic system. It is for this reason that we have asked all sectors of the economy, which in some way have been able to enjoy more favourable situations on the energy front, to make their own contribution, so that the sector most disadvantaged on the energy price front can also see a reduction in the price of energy. We are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. The measures we have put in place on this ground accelerate a process of reducing the price of energy, which has already begun for about two years. I report the substantial reductions in gas prices (on the Italian market the wholesale gas price is substantially aligned with that of other European countries), which are also transferring to gas prices for households, with significant reductions of the order of 7-8 percent between 2012 and 2013. These reductions, however, continue and are also moving towards electricity, which finds gas as one of the key inputs and which records, between 2012 and 2013, a reduction of the so-called PUN (national single price) of about seven, eight euros on an annual basis per megawatt/hour. This process on the electricity front is also continuing. Well, the measures of this decree-law accelerate the process of reduction, a fundamental trend due to the measures of liberalisation and reform of the markets launched by the governments in the last three years that are now producing their effects. In this respect there is an acceleration aimed in particular at helping small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthening the process of reducing the price of energy for small and medium-sized enterprises. This set of interventions does not exhaust what is needed to give support to the recovery of the Italian economy. Other interventions will be necessary, for example on the infrastructure front, on which the Government is working. The novelties introduced by the work of the Commissions are important and have gone exactly in the same direction and with the same inspiration of the decree in its original version, improving and strengthening it. We would like to thank all the members of the parliamentary committees for this. The measure has been reinforced on some key terrains: for example, in the energy package there are measures which, while maintaining the amount of the required contribution for each of the sectors involved, have improved the configuration of the measures, rationalised and improved their modulation, also taking into account the needs of the sectors required to make this contribution. I believe that the work of the Commissions on this issue has been of very high quality. In addition to the improvement in energy measures, there have been the strengthening of the so-called Sabatini law, improvements in the rules for companies, improving access to credit and the structuring of finance for businesses and in the composition of the capital of enterprises; and on the environment and agriculture. 11:38 a.m. (continued DE VINCENTI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development). At the request of the Government - we are very grateful to the Commissions for having accepted this request - there was the inclusion of the amendment on the ILVA, which transferred within this measure the text of the decree that the Council of Ministers had issued last week, in order to ensure its translation into law in useful times. It is a very important text from the point of view of the possibility of strengthening the financing conditions of ILVA, of production activity, but above all of the realization of the environmental plan, also with measures on the environmental front provided for in the decree. This amendment has been accepted by the Commissions which have considered to add two further paragraphs in particular, which have improved its configuration both on the environmental side and on the finding of resources. I therefore believe that the decree-law that we are bringing to this House today is strengthened in its inspiration and effectiveness thanks to the work of the parliamentary committees. The text also contains some rules specifically aimed at closing infringement procedures: we are at the beginning of the Italian Presidency and one of the objectives of the Government is to present itself to this appointment by closing it as much as possible. In particular, in the environmental part we have introduced some rules already in the original decree-law, with improvements due to the work of the Commissions, precisely for the closure of infringement procedures. I can assure the senators that the Government will monitor the application of these rules, the closure of infringement procedures with Brussels and we will take into account the needs of the Commission. I would also like to say this particularly to Senator Cirinna, who has posed real problems which the Commission has tried to take into account, in the need to close the infringement procedure in the matter she has dealt with. It is clear, however, that the needs of the senator have involved the Commissions and we are all aware of the problems highlighted. For reasons of eligibility, we could not include in the decree-law an amendment at the first signature of Senator Cuomo (but also bearing signatures from other senators) in the matter of insurance, which in particular addressed an issue to the attention of all of us both by the Italian decree-law-destination, which we had to set aside, within the framework of a more general reform of the insurance market. I refer to the issue of differentials in the insurance premiums of Civil Auto Responsibility between some areas of the country, in particular the Mezzogiorno and the rest of Italy. We share the inspiration of the first-signed amendment by Senator Cuomo, because we believe that it is necessary to verify to the full whether those differentials correspond to real differences in objective and subjective conditions or whether they are not excessive compared to what would be involved by the diversification of objective and subjective conditions in the various areas of the country. We believe that this will have to be taken into account as soon as possible and we commit ourselves as a Government to working in this direction. I can assure Senator Cuomo that we are already doing this in the competition law after the summer break: for the first time the Government will present a bill for competition on which we are working hard. The reform of the insurance market will be one of the key aspects of the competition law and within it we intend to address the problem posed by the Cuomo amendment, taking into account the texts deposited both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, in particular by Senator Cuomo himself, as well as the proposals for popular initiative laws on which they have been collected and are collecting signatures. I believe this is an inescapable issue and the Government is committed to dealing with it in the next competition law. We think that the measure that we are presenting to Parliament today makes an important contribution, we believe crucial in many respects, in order to help the Italian economic system, Italian companies, Italian workers, to open up a prospect of strengthening and strengthening the recovery. We have all worked in this direction and even when, as in this case, the dialectic Government-Parliament is tight, there have also been lively moments in the confrontation between Government, rapporteurs and Commissions but always in the great frankness of the confrontation, positions, mutual esteem, in the conviction that if it is true that the confrontation was tight, it was healthy and constructive, and when we work in this way we work to strengthen the measures. I believe that this relationship between Government and Parliament has been fundamental to improving the text of our decree, because we all have the same objective here, beyond the roles and political positionings; that of supporting the country in an attempt to engage a growth that is still uncertain, it is glimpsed but still needs to take strength and vigor. This is the ambition of the measure that we are bringing to the approval of this House today. On this the Government and Parliament have worked together with the same objectives, with the same political will. First of all, I would like to thank the Presidents of the Industry and Environment Commissions, Mr Cucchetti and Mr Marinello, the Commission Leaders, both in majority and in opposition, because the confrontation with the opposition has also been a constructive confrontation. Of course, I would like to thank the Heads of Parliamentary Groups of the Senate and all the members of the Commissions; and I am referring, of course, first of all to the Environment and Industry Commissions, but I would also like to stress the role of the Agriculture Commission, which, although not part of the direct work, has made a fundamental contribution through proposals for amendments agreed in the Agriculture Commission, which have been transposed by the Environment and Industry Commissions. I would therefore also like to thank the members of the Agriculture Commission and the Presidents and members of the Budget Commission, who had to work under difficult conditions, in a short time. Nevertheless, they have allowed us to complete our work in good time and to bring the measure to the House yesterday and propose it today for the approval of this House. I would also like to thank, as the rapporteurs have already done, the officials of the Senate, in particular of the two Commissions, who have done an exemplary job for self-denial and competence. Allow me to thank the legislative offices, the lavatory offices and the directorates of the ministries involved in this measure. If the representatives of the government present here have been able to conduct their work of confrontation with the Commissions it is thanks to this great work that we have had behind us and that has been fundamental. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the government who have followed the measure with me these days and on these nights, Barbara Degani, Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Environment, Andrea Olivero, Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy, Ivan Scalfarotto, Undersecretary of Relations with Parliament, a valuable pivot of our work of liaison with Parliament. Let me also thank Deputy Minister Morando for following the work of the Budget Commission together with President Azzollini. At the end of all this, I think I can tell you that we did a good job. The measure will serve the Italian economy, and the Government has made every effort to translate it into practice in its daily administrative action in the coming weeks. At this point, I would like to call for a suspension of the House's activities by about 30 minutes and to announce the intervention of Minister Boschi, who will present the maxi amendment of the Government, which takes up to the letter the amendments voted by the Commissions, on which the question of trust will be raised. Thank you all for your attention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u45	In the light of the Government's request, I suspend the sitting for half an hour because the question of trust has been announced, which makes the request already made superfluous and which is known to the Presidency not to switch to articles. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 a.m. and resumed at 12.24 p.m.) The session is resumed. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment that I am going to submit to the Presidency, which is entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1541 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commissions 10a and 13a together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u47	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of trust and, in accordance with practice, forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m. and resumed at 12.38 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u48	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the bill n. 1541, of conversion into law of Decree-Law n. 91 of 24 June 2014. For the discussion on the question of trust, which will begin immediately after the opinion given by the Commission on the financial effects of the maxi amendment, at around 1.15 p.m., was divided one hour among all the groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 4 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.40 a.m. and resumed at 13.19 a.m.) Colleagues, since the Budget Commission has not yet completed its work, I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. when the Budget Commission has the opportunity to give its opinion. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.19 a.m. and resumed at 14.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u49	The session is resumed. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u50	Mr President, I will make two premises which I think are important and which constitute the affirmation of a practice which is very good for Parliament: the Government has strictly adhered to the text adopted in the Commission, and this must be acknowledged; even more important is the fact that the Commission has taken into account - and I am particularly grateful for this to Presidents Marinello and Cucchetti, as well as to all the members of the Commission - and has complied with the requirements of Article 81 of the Constitution. This is very important because, as you will see, the reliefs are very few and someone is probably due to the conditions in which you are working, waiting that, as is known, you prefer a quick text to a good text; if then by chance the quick text is also good, that's okay. The two issues that have emerged are as follows. Unless the Government has already done so, it asks for the expression of article 18, paragraph 9-b, with retroactive facilities on which the Accounting Office has expressed a dry opinion of honesty. If this issue has already been dealt with in the text, that is fine, it means that the observation has already been accepted; if it has not been, I would ask the Government to remove this point. Mr ASTORRE (PD). What text are you referring to? Mr Azzollini (NCD). The text on which the Budget Committee expresses itself is that of the maxi amendment tabled by the Government. This is what we are discussing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It was obvious, Senator, it couldn't have been the one previously printed. Please, Senator Azzollini, continue. Mr Azzollini (NCD). The second argument relates to Article 34, paragraph 1-bis. We ask that the Government accept and arrange for the modification in the senses that can always be observed on page 2 and on page 3 of the technical report. This is a very technical issue which involves the deletion of the cover clause and the issuing of a subsequent decree by the President of the Council of Ministers to be issued within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the rule, so the aforementioned provision identifies the modalities of those companies. That is why the cover clause is deleted. These are the two demands. On pages 1 and 2 of this report you will find observations from the Accounting Office that highlight critical aspects, but not a direct impact on Article 81 of the Constitution, so I do not ask for any change to the text: these are critical observations that are also made in our opinions but do not affect the text. On page 12 of the maxi amendment, to the third paragraph (but I believe that here too perhaps President Marinello could easily give me notice that it is the final phase that is convulsed), the suppression of the concert of a measure with the Ministry of Economy and Finance has been preserved. The budget committee has always, when there is the abolition of the agreement with the Ministry, laid down a condition in accordance with Article 81. I would therefore ask that the Government should expunge the period of time, as a result, in paragraph 8, delete the following words: "and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance" It was a fairly simple opinion all in all. Finally, on page 44 of the maxi amendment I note a mere material error. In paragraph 7-b, in point (a), the words "quanto a 150 million" are to be replaced by the other "quanto a 260 million" are to be replaced, while in point (b) the words "quanto a 260 million" are to be replaced by the other "quanto a 150 million" are to be replaced by the other "quanto a 150 million" are to be replaced. These are purely technical aspects which we have observed and which must be corrected, leaving the rest of the text perfectly identical. I ask that the government be absent from these demands. Finally, I should like to make two points. The first is that colleagues will be able to find references in the technical report to Articles 18, paragraphs 8-a and 8-b, Article 18, paragraph 9-b, Article 25-a, paragraph 29, paragraph 3-a, and Article 30-e, paragraph 2. The reason why you won't find them in the text is that they haven't been included, because our comments have already been accepted: the text is already reworded, that's why you don't find that rule in Article 18, paragraph 9-b. The second is that, in line with the budget committee, it became clear that in relation to certain texts (I do not remember whether two, three or four) the opinion of honesty on an amendment had to be withdrawn. At that point, there was another identical one, even if it concerned another body, which, however, concerned the same issue, and so we withdrew both opinions of opposition under Article 81. After that, in the convulsion of the moment, it has not been understood well whether the Commission had finally approved them or had approved one of them, as it seems, but our belief is that with regard to the two amendments, 10,46 and 29,26, the President, who is a refined connoisseur of the Latin language, will allow me to say that simul stabunt, simul cadent. It is quite clear, in fact, that our opinion was identical on both, so either they both stand, or neither remains. Since only one of the two remained, I ask that there be none. I'm sorry, I'll see you later, but I asked the government, who gave me your consent, to accept my plea. Having said that, Mr President, I would once again like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members for allowing us to do this work, in which thousands of amendments have been tabled and hundreds of amendments have been discussed, approved or rejected, and in the end these are the only ones I have put forward and all in all of which there is no significant financial commitment. I therefore call on the Government to give its opinion on these requests. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Bencini and Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u51	The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u52	Mr President, I accept the points made by President Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u55	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. You will certainly have understood better than I what we are voting on, as a major amendment. President Azzollini said that either 10,46 or 29,26 are both or neither. We must have an answer, because the Commission and the Government...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u56	Neither. If that's the question, I can solve it for you. But he is right: it is better to specify it. Thank you. This is an intervention on the order of business. I'm delighted. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u57	Mr President, one could have fun commenting on the mess of the maxi amendment tabled by the Government and drawn up, packaged and amended by the Budget Commission. I would like to point out this as a lesson in style for a government that raises the question of trust by presenting major amendments that need to be reworked, however, since the government has put the question of trust, it essentially shifts the attention from the content of the provision to the content of the relationship that exists between the Government and Parliament, in this case the Senate. As for the question of trust and the government, how do we at this moment give confidence to a President who every day threatens the dissolution of Parliament if they do not comply with the will of the Premier completely - allow us - arbitrary? How can we trust a Prime Minister who professes to be an anti-caste and does everything to put public opinion against the institutions and against Parliament? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] How do we give confidence to a government and a premier who, day after day, repeating falsehoods, claims that repeated falsehood becomes almost a truth and makes this House pass by fighting for rights, sacred rights, and freedom of expression, as a Chamber defending privileges and its own armchairs? How can we trust a Premier of this nature? How can we give confidence to a Premier and party leader who, if in the Commission some free voice rises, in contrast to the Premier and head of the party, eliminates it radically by shifting the person, raising it and causing it to decline from its role? How can we give confidence to a government that complains to the President of the Senate who strictly applies the Rules of Procedure, because it would also prevent the free expression of vote, ergo not to proceed, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, with the secret ballot? How can we give confidence to a Head of Government who, by presenting its guidelines on reform, no longer wants the slightest participation of citizens? He does not want the citizens to participate in the election of the Senate; he does not want the citizens to participate in the election of the Chamber of Deputies with which he must have a trust; he does not want the citizens to stand in the way, not even allowing them the popular legislative initiative provided for in the Constitution or the popular referendum, elevating the necessary signatures, both for one and the other, to practically impossible numbers. How can we give confidence to a Premier, who is the leader of the party, who has already negotiated a second phase of reforms, namely presidentialism? How can we accept, in essence, a directly elected President who will want the laws to be adopted in the time that he himself will determine, otherwise Parliament will lose the opportunity to amend and will have to vote on that law, and that is all, without popular participation, without counterweights, or even with all the additional powers for the provision of controls and the appointment of controllers which a directly elected President has? How does a Parliament entrust full powers to one person, thinking that it is still in a democratic system? We wondered more than once if the Premier could say something without propaganda, if he could say something without repeating commonplaces. We are fed up with these statements as a child, as an enfant prodigy, which has become a phenomenon of Italian politics and perhaps would like to do so for the next six months at European level. How can we give confidence to a Premier who writes a Constitution with his feet and demands that Parliament discuss it and discuss it from 28 July to 8 August? Some people wondered if August 8 is a particular date, a totem (Nostradamus has been called); no one understands what August 8 means. We are talking about a reform that should involve and a party that comes from the history of participation. However, we do not want to participate here, we do not want to debate it, but we want a text adopted by a certain date, which makes no sense because this reform should still wait four years to come into force! What sense does it have and what confidence can we give to this type of government? We should trust a Premier who would like to be a Premier at European level and the only famous phrase that we have heard him say at European level is: "Now it's the time of lunch ". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We are still free men and women, and we cannot trust this government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u58	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the question of trust, noting that we are at the twelfth request of the Renzi Government. It was a practice that was so much criticized by the Berlusconi Government, but it seems to me that someone on this point needs to reflect. This request, in fact, only serves to mask the government's lack of will to confront Parliament. We are faced with an unnecessary recourse to the decree of urgency and an equally unnecessary speeding-up of the times for the approval of the decrees. If President Renzi thinks he's passing the government's message of efficiency, he's definitely wrong. Unfortunately, economic data disprove this, and the government's forecasts of growth of 0.8% are absolutely wrong. We will have a lower GDP, a growth that will stop at 0.2 per cent, we will see as a result all the parameters related to GDP increase, the deficit will rise over 3% and the public debt, which does not decrease, to more than 135 per cent, and that certainly worries us. At the same time, public expenditure has not been stopped and the announced review measures have not even been covered at all. At this point the risk of a corrective maneuver of the public accounts, having skipped all the parameters inserted in the Document of economy and finance, becomes concrete and the answer could be that of an anticipation of the law of stability of 2015, which has the sole purpose of masking the impasse in which the government came to be. This year's lack of growth is obviously likely to reverberate in 2015. At that point we will have a Europe that will call us to respect the parameters. In this state of affairs, President Renzi raises the question of confidence in a measure, that of the so-called competitiveness decree, which does not even contain a rule that can serve the immediate simplification or growth of the economy. Probably several rules contained in the decree, on the contrary, further complicate the lives of businesses, which are already suffering a great deal. We are faced with an arrogance in the parliamentary debate which certainly has no precedent. We are faced with a majority which, itself, is the victim of the times of Prime Minister Renzi. We strongly dispute this way of putting ourselves in parliamentary debate. Spontaneous observation. I hope that every colleague will read the title of the measure, which contains urgent provisions for the agricultural sector, environmental protection and energy efficiency of school and university construction, the relaunching and development of enterprises, the reduction of the costs of electricity tariffs, and the immediate definition of compliance arising from European legislation. It seems to me that one part is completely disconnected from the other, incongruous, very far from the calls of the Constitutional Court, which, a few months ago, declared the constitutional illegitimacy of some articles of Decree-Law No 272 of 2005 on the Turin Winter Olympics, which contained rules regulating the dispensation of drugs in Italy: we are faced with a similar situation. Little is enough, just a layman, any Italian citizen who reads the title to understand the state of confusion in which the Renzi Government navigates. I should like to conclude by making a comment. The Prime Minister has begun his experience as a Government with a slogan that is so taken on these days that Italy is changing towards. As an Italian citizen, I would like to ask the operator a quiet question: but are we sure the verse is right? [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I shall address a problem which you, Mr President, will have to answer because I think it is serious. I do not go into the matter of trust, if we are here to give the sixteenth or seventeenth confidence, because this is constitutionally envisaged and the President of the Council can avail himself of it. First, however, when I asked what major amendment we are voting on, I did so because two different texts are circulating, and I will bring them to you. There are two major amendments in which some of the amendments they have accepted have been removed, not now in this House, but in an incorrect way. So someone has to explain. In addition, a maxi amendment has 63 pages, the other has 60 pages. So, you should see what happened to those who disappeared. I am referring above all to an amendment of mine, 29.26, which states (the date is 23 July 2014) is previewed an extension to 31 December 2015 of the moratorium expired on 30 June 2014 of the executive actions promoted from the creditors on the railway society regional of Campania. It is represented that nothing precludes its further course. In addition, a maxi amendment has 63 pages, the other has 60 pages. Therefore, we should see what happened to the amendments that have disappeared. I refer, Mr President, in particular to an amendment of mine, on 29.26, in respect of which the technical report of the Ministry of Economy and Finance of 23 July 2014, noting that it was an extension to 31 December 2015 of the moratorium expired on 30 June 2014 of the executive actions promoted by the creditors on the regional railway company of Campania, expressed the nullity precluded its further course. The MEF therefore says that there are no problems with Article 81 of the Constitution; the MEF says: there are no costs. In the text of the maxi amendment which I have, and which I shall hand over to you, Mr President, on page 55 it says: In Article 29, the following shall be added after paragraph 3: " 3-a. In article 17, paragraph 5, of the decree-law 6 March 2014, no. 16 converted, with amendments, by law 2 May 2014, n. 68, the words: '30 June 2014' are replaced by the following: '31 December 2015' Mr President, I also have the technical report from the MEF on 25 July today. Well, in this report - which you may have, Mr President, it is in the offices of the 5th Commission - it is written that paragraph 3-a (amendment 29.26) contains a provision which does not lead to any new or increased burden on public finances, since it is the extension of a provision already in force in the legal system, to which no negative financial effects had been attributed. Mr President, I have heard Mr Azzollini say that either the amendments or 10,46 and 29,26 stand or neither; just because they have forgotten to make provision for the extension for Basilicata, the one for Campania is also deleted: but I say, are we crazy? This is a way of governing and respecting the Regions with respect to problems that come from far away, from previous Juntas, from too large debt situations: a Region cannot equalize 4 billion in four years on health care and another 6 billion on derivative contracts (which we know how they were done in London, in various ways). The Region was ready to honour its debts but only needed a further year. The existence of this text of the maxi amendment - which I give you - is demonstrated by the technical report: the technical report says that the Government has brought that maxi amendment here and not another one. So, Mr President, I would ask that these situations at Mandrake be corrected. I will of course vote against the measure because confidence has been placed: if confidence had not been placed, we would almost certainly have given our vote in favour, also in view of the effort made by the Commissions, where I participated, which was quite intense. These are the conditions of governability and intervention in favor of the interests of several million citizens living in a Region; I believe that the Campanian residents do not deserve a treatment like that that that has reserved this Government, just because a Region of 600,000 inhabitants has failed, because disorganized, to propose the extension: we will do it next time, lively! This is the seriousness that we reject to this Government at this moment even if we know that the President of the Council and the Undersecretary Delrio agreed to have this extension approved, including that relating to the Basilicata Region, but for a mere disguido of the Basilicata is not approved even that of Campania. This is not respectful of the fundamental principles of the first part of the Constitution, which establishes the equality of all citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u61	Senator Barani, as far as the substance is concerned, of course, it is not the Presidency that must judge the assessments that everyone is free to make. On the formal level, we refer to the text that has been presented by the Government today. I do not exclude that other texts may be circulated in recent days, this is quite usual, but the text on which confidence is placed is the one that has been delivered today and on which President Azzollini has just given his opinion. As for the other assessments, you have expressed them and are free to do so. She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u62	Mr President, representatives of the Government, the Government calls for confidence in the competitiveness decree. I would like to emphasise the word 'competitiveness'. This government is now made up of people who compete with each other to emerge and, to do so, use the same methods. The methods are: the arrogance, the spookiness, the delegitimization of the people in front of them, the confusion of governing and commanding, the confusion of institutional roles. Personalism and the cult of personality obviously brought them to the President of the Council; for him they are on the agenda. (14.34) (Bulgarelli followed). In these days, in the Commission, with the decree under consideration, we have seen behaviors that confirm what I am saying, and even in the previous days, on the part of the President of the Council, we have seen what it means when someone dares to question what he says. We started with the President of the Council who insults the officials of the Senate, just because they allow themselves to question some covers of a decree very dear to him, that of the 80 euros (which, unlike what De Vincenti declared this morning during the replies, did not move the Italian economy at all). The President of the Council has insulted the institutional officials of the Senate, to whom I still apologise for the harsh behaviour of the Head of the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]] If someone really has arguments he doesn't go into personal matters, but he answers on matters; when he goes to personal offences and to belittle people, it means that the arguments are over and that is not a behavior as President-in-Office of the Council. Then we went to the President-in-Office of the Council who insulted the senators. Senators who are defending the Constitution are being attacked, always on a personal level, and insulted. They are told anything, just delegitimize the person you are facing! And this is always the President-in-Office of the Council. Not to mention Minister Boschi. During the response to constitutional reforms in this House, Minister Boschi did not go into the substance of the reforms, but she also tried to undermine the people she was facing, those who did not feel the same way. It is always the typical behavior I was talking about before: those who have no arguments, go to the attack on the personal level. Congratulations indeed: people who have such important institutional roles have no argument to defend the measures they bring to this House. Another small note on the left; I wanted to tell him when he was there, but unfortunately in recent days I have not been able to intervene. It is truly ridiculous when a Minister of the Government, both in the Commission and in the Chamber, says that she speaks in a personal capacity. A Minister cannot speak in a personal capacity: if you are a Minister you speak on behalf of the Government. If for you the government is only Renzi, you have to let Renzi act and not come here and say to speak in a personal way. We cannot have an institutional role and speak in a personal capacity, if we do not stay at home, we do not come here. We shall then turn to Mr Scalfarotto, who, a few days ago, went to the Budget Committee and demanded that it end up expressing all the opinions on the amendments that were being discussed in the Commission: not asking, but demanding and offending both the President of the Commission and all the members of the Budget Commission who were working on that measure, assuming that we were there to do nothing and that we wanted to do nothing in this case too. This too is always part of those behaviors that are absolutely not suitable for institutional roles. Let us not talk about the President of the 13th Commission. The last night in the Commission, the most drinkable things happened. At one point, the President of the Commission asked a senator several times to withdraw an amendment; on his refusal, the President of the 13th The Commission has even informed him that his amendment would be inadmissible. Does that seem fair and appropriate to a President of a Commission? I don't think so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is true that the decision to make the amendments inadmissible is unavoidable, but it is also true that if inadmissible is decided only because the amendment is not withdrawn it is really out of place. But I'm definitely the one who's wrong. Then we come to the confusion of institutional roles, which I was talking about earlier. In this House, President Grasso... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Madam President, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u63	Senator Bulgarelli, I'm sorry, I didn't realize you were finishing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u64	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Please, can you tell me how much time I have left? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you another minute, but your time would actually be over. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I was talking about the confusion of institutional roles. President Grasso has allowed time to be harmonised in this House with regard to constitutional reforms. I couldn't believe it. Then yesterday I heard President Zanda say in this House that he did not want to quote the times. President Zanda didn't want to stall? But it is certainly not your job to determine whether the times can or cannot be contingencyd! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would remind both President Zanda and President Grasso that he has bowed to the CDC. I am very sorry that with this kind of mentis you are going to face institutional and constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u65	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Group for the Independents for giving me the opportunity to speak on trust, knowing that I will not represent the Group's political direction on this vote of confidence. Although we are in the midst of confidence, I allow myself to speak on a single paragraph, the former paragraph 8 of Article 4 of the decree under consideration. On the basis of this paragraph I would like to explain to you why, in my opinion, even a single rule can be paradigmatic of a way of lawmaking that seems to me contradictory to the objectives promised by the decree and also, in my humble opinion, anti-scientific. In my opinion, the text of the decree has been greatly improved by the work of the Senate. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Senators and rapporteurs, but also the Health Commission, which, as Senator Dalla Zuanna pointed out this morning, proposed an amendment, which was then accepted, which eliminates the penalty of imprisonment for those who legitimately practice business freedom. But in the former paragraph 8 of Article 4, heavy sanctions remain, which, in my opinion, criminalize those who legitimately want to grow authorized GMO plants. I would therefore like to explain to you in four points why this paragraph, instead of promoting it, goes against Italian competitiveness in my opinion. The first point is that the paragraph penalises farmers who sow GMO plants. In doing so it punishes not only those who plant unauthorised GMOs (as it should be), but also those who plant GMOs authorised for trade with European law, which Italy is obliged to comply with. So the paragraph says no to an Ogm plant authorised for cultivation throughout Europe, the only one: GMO maize of type Bt. So, I'm just talking about this variety of corn, because I want to use it as a paradigm example. It is certainly a technologically outdated variety, which, by protecting itself from the attack of harmful parasites, avoids the use of insecticides toxic to humans, animals and the environment. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to have the approval by European law of an Ogm plant, because the controls are rightly strict and carried out by an authoritative agency such as EFSA (European Food Safety Authority). Well, until five days ago the share of Italian soil grown in Bt maize, officially, was equal to a football field. It has been destroyed with the deployment of massive Forces of Order and costs for the State. The contradiction lies in the fact that most of that same maize we import, that is, most of those 4 million tonnes, in addition to all soya or cotton, is GMO. So, I don't understand the competitive advantage of punishing those who grow that GMO corn we import. It is objectively a contradiction. I'll move on to the second reason. To me it seems objectively a contradiction, even from the economic point of view. In fact, even for the future the decree-law seems to put our farmers in a position to have a recovery of competitiveness with regard to the yield per hectare of that corn. To make a concrete comparison and citing sources such as Eurostat and ISTAT, elaborated by Dario Frisio of the University of Milan, Spain, in 1995, before cultivating GMOs, had a yield that was 20% lower than ours. Today the yield of Spain, which grows for a third of its GMO soil, is above ours by 41 percent. Today we produce 78 quintals per hectare, compared to 110 in Spain. In addition to this lower productivity, we spend more than EUR 2 billion annually to provide GM feed from abroad. That is, instead of giving this money to our farmers, we give it to foreign farms. Some economists have given me their calculations, which show that we will spend two thirds of the currency that should enter by selling abroad all our most prestigious ham and cheese produced by the large protection consortia. To me it seems difficult to argue that we can trade better by boasting that ham or cheese are produced in a nation that does not grow GMO plants, but that feeds, with imported GMO feeds, all the livestock that generates them. The third point on which I draw your attention is the paragraph that sanctiones the freedom of our agricultural enterprises and, therefore, does not favour their competitiveness, rather hindering investments in innovations on land owned with GMOs obviously authorized, preventing them from doing what the agricultural companies, for example Spanish, carry out successfully. The fourth argument is of a legal nature. I admit that I had to reread paragraph 8 of Article 4 many times and have it explained even more, because I struggled to understand its construction. The paragraph, despite what the Government says, does not introduce any sanctions for those who violate the prohibitions provided for in European Regulation No 178 of 2002, but provides sanctions for those who violate national prohibitions on cultivation, which we know, according to the aforementioned regulation, individual states can introduce, but only as a precaution. But if we think about Bt maize, what I mentioned earlier, in fact the only authorized one, can anyone explain to me what a precautionary ban on a GMO already authorised at European level means? I just don't understand. In short, in this decree-law the paragraph anti-GMO appears in the article dedicated to mozzarella. In fact, it seems to me that paragraph is against the Friulian farmers, who have dared publicly break a taboo, planting the only GMO plant authorised by European law. The European law, against which Italy would like to go with regional laws that punish those farmers, without those same regional laws ever being notified in Europe. Therefore, there are regional laws that are not notified in Europe and therefore out of law. I ask you: can this really be the case? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Cattaneo. CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm almost done. Those fields in Friuli, with the rule today recalled, have been destroyed and from now on we want to add sanctions to stop the cultivation of what we import paying. That corn went to incineration. I think there is no more symbolic image of a stake to represent what's upstream. Burning knowledge means burning ignorance: those fields could give data to Italy and a Minister to protect them to understand and verify the numbers they were collecting on biodiversity, yield and the possibility of coexistence between different types of agriculture, data that perhaps only demonstrate what other countries that use GMOs have already verified. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Giovanardi and Susta.]] On the basis of these four arguments, I conclude that the paragraph in question should not be an integral part of a decree which seeks to recall the concept of competitiveness: it goes in the opposite direction and I do not agree with that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Obviously, I wondered why this paragraph: I believe there is an extreme need for reforms in this country, but the first to do is a virtual reform, which starts from the awareness of all that in this country there is an extreme need for truth, in every area, and for solid culture. I realise that the GMO issue raises different sensitivities and opposing positions: one cannot be superficial in anything. Madam President, I would like to leave the rest of my remarks to the record if I am allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u67	Yes, of course, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u68	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And now I really end, remembering that Italy has been under infringement procedure for five months. For all these reasons, and not without any doubt, I was determined to abstain from the Government's request for confidence, knowing well what abstention means in this House. After the change to the paragraph, which eliminated the imprisonment for authorised GMO plants, I decided not to participate in the vote of confidence. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups and the Barani, Giovanardi, Sangalli and Susta senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u69	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u70	Madam President, in view of the fact that the matter of trust, which causes all the amendments and agendas related to the text to lapse, I would ask the Government, when transposing the maxi nal Commission amendment, which provides for the submission of a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers within six months, to consider very carefully all the requirements of amendments 16,4, 16,5, 16,6, 16,7, 16,8, 16,9, 16,11 and 16,22 in order to close the European infringement procedure. In particular, I call for a commitment to ban the use of animals of any kind, whether wild or farmed, as a lively reminder, including appropriate sanctions for all offenders. I would also urge the current owners of birds used today as a live reminder of their delivery to the wildlife recovery centres. It would certainly have been adopted by a majority, if it had come to this House, the content of the eight amendments tabled to protect the respect of birds and the sensitivity acquired by people towards animals in recent years (which, I recall, have received legal recognition of sentient beings). These amendments, in fact, have been signed by more than 40 senators and have been expressed by many others, placed throughout the hemicycle (from the Five Star Movement to the complete to many of the parties PD, Misto-SEL, Forza Italia, NCD and others). I remember and appreciate the particular commitment of Senators Cirinna, Granaiola and De Petris. The competitiveness decree, as well as great opportunity to define important measures for the economic and cultural revival of the country, could also be an opportunity to demonstrate its civilization. The Senate, on the other hand - on a long night, when the votes given by the hands raised to the amendments were not counted, which were often not even looked at, except in an absolute hurry - approved, by 22 votes to 18, the text of the Government. The latter still allows the capture and use of small migratory birds as live calls, despite the contrary demands of Europe and the hundreds of thousands of citizens who have signed petitions in recent weeks and testified to their indignation at government and politics. The 50,000 signatures delivered to Parliament by LIPU were of no use to erase this bloody and aberrant practice. Today we are not taking a step forward, but we are leaving for the European Semester on the wrong foot, stumbling not on the stones that we will put on the tracks of the train of the shameful constitutional reform, but on the umpteenth red card of call (which is not of the aforementioned birds, but of Europe). We will make the usual appearance of those who bow to lobbying, when not of banks, of primordial and heinous instincts, which nevertheless allow votes. In addition - and I would add - we had tabled an amendment to the Commission which deletes the provisions allowing the issue of the ex post EIA. We had presented one identical to that of the PD: of course that of the 5 Star Movement was rejected, while that of the PD was instead approved. However, we are happy for this victory; victories are beautiful even when they have many fathers. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] We are not interested in either the biological fathers or the putative fathers, and therefore we have, with a salomonic decision, rather than risked not to have this amendment inserted, given our son willingly to PD, who instead becomes beautiful with the daily solidaritys insisting on highlighting merits, when instead he has only escaped from a thin figure discovered already in the bud. However, we are happy with this measure, but we are concerned about what will be foreseen in the implementing decree, because we know that the devil is nested in detail and that the content, not the titles, make the difference. But do not think that we will lower the guard; we will watch and write you by e-mail, asking you to account for the content of the implementing decree that will follow and how the Regions will put their own, of course. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u71	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u74	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, this measure - as President Azzollini also mentioned - has been widely discussed in the Commission. The text of the Government, with the maxi amendment, recovers entirely the great work done in the Commission. To all of us, rapporteurs and members of the Commission, thank you very much. We will certainly vote in favour of trust in the Government, also because we believe that the wishes contained in Mr De Vincenti's reply are very concrete and can be fulfilled. This decree certainly contains important points on simplification and on aid to the competitiveness of our system, although it contains some critical issues. I basically agree with the last two speeches and I also agreed with them in the Commissions meeting, having signed and proposed the amendment that took away the detention in prison for those who grow GMOs and also voted in favour of the anti-hunting rules, which were recalled a moment ago by Senator Fucksia. But these issues certainly do not affect the overall validity of a measure that we hope will really achieve the objectives that President Cucchetti reminded us of. However, we cannot fail to stress, in reaffirming the vote in favour of this decree, that however, we must review the ways in which we deal with the great economic and social issues of the country, also from the point of view of the legislative procedure. At other times, perhaps, authoritative representatives of the press and culture would have emphasized the objective unevenness of a decree like this, which contains so many subjects that perhaps would need more simplified moments, in order to allow better work and more effective in achieving our goals. With this wish, which, however, is linked to the modalities of legislation on which we will have to reflect, alongside and in parallel with the broader constitutional reforms, certainly cannot miss a favourable vote on the part of Civic Choice towards a measure that we really hope can serve the economic recovery, as everyone wants in here, parallel to the path of constitutional reform. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u77	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a text which has seen the two committees, industry and the environment, engaged in assiduous and rigorous work, both because of the wide and diverse nature of the measure, already highlighted by many of our colleagues, and because of the working times, which were necessarily very close, also in order to reach a conclusion which would enable the House to have an easy examination. The text has grown through the work of the Commissions, who have been able to find concrete answers to the many critical issues left open by the original text, identifying positive stimuli that did not make fall back the solutions imagined in the beehive of the usual and little functional strategies, but went to obtain new hypotheses and new interventions. We have also seen, I would say, a political evolution in the work of comparison with which we have tried, albeit with little resources, to give meaningful and effective answers. And this merit, together with the commitment made by everyone, I believe must be recognized. Of course, we cannot hide that more could be done. But it must be pointed out that this work has superimposed on what this House was conducting on constitutional reform, which has actually led to a serious operational limit, forcing us to tighten our times considerably and to sacrifice the work of the Commission, despite the repeated, long and - to use a term of my President and colleague Marinello - almost distressing. And you all know how challenging this has been. I would therefore like to express my deep thanks here to the rapporteurs, to all the colleagues of the Industry and Environment Commissions, to the government representatives, who have started a truly fruitful collaboration with everyone, majority and opposition. And I deeply thank the officials of the Commission who, with great skill and professionalism, have allowed us to arrive here today. As I entered the substance of the measure, I mentioned the variety of issues addressed. The text we are about to vote on is, in fact, based on a very wide range of issues which primarily concern support for the agricultural and agri-food sector, but which extend, just to name a few, from the promotion of Made in Italy to energy efficiency in school construction, to measures to prevent hydrogeological risk, to the remodulation of incentives in the energy sector and much more. A typical omnibus decree, which we hoped we would no longer have to deal with, which required substantial and responsible work for analysis and deepening, but which nevertheless had clear guidelines, focusing on simplification and transparency, in a key to support companies in different areas that go from agro-food to the environment, transport, energy, with actions aimed at feeding the possibilities of doing business, and quality enterprise, creating employment, through greater access to funds and sources of financing. It is worth noting, at least in broad terms, the scope of some of the measures outlined, the result of the assiduous confrontation between parliamentarians, rapporteurs and government. The latter - it must be reiterated - has been able to accept many amending proposals aimed at improving the original text, maintaining an openness that has allowed us to find solutions that are sometimes creative and effective. With regard to the measures relating to entrepreneurship in agri-food, it was intended to intervene by facilitating, first, the relationship between companies and authorities with regard to communications, forms and obligations relating to the business dossier, introducing simplification measures for companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, in order to resolve the many problems that often affect, on the bureaucratic side, the operators of the wine, wine, dairy and oil trade. It is a sector with strong potential for growth and the very image of our country. A mention, in this sense, certainly deserve the provisions aimed at promoting Made in Italy, youth entrepreneurship and business networks, with a focus on quality production, through the provision of appropriate financing and tax credits, in reference to which the audience of beneficiaries has been expanded, to include cooperatives and production consortia, also introducing clarifications and specifications in relation to the use of designations of origin (such as PDO, DOC, DOCG), that allow an effective promotion of Made in Italy, and improving the instruments of protection of quality and excellence in production, of which our country is undisputed bearer. One case among others, in this sense, are the provisions on the mozzarella di bufala bell DOP. The agri-food measures show the line with which it was intended to intervene also on the other subjects covered by the measure, meeting the needs of entrepreneurship also and above all to simplify the action and comparison user-administration, as well as to harmonize many critical issues on the operational side, as in the case of the interventions in the matter of waste management, for which the Government has accepted measures aimed at overcoming different criticalities. To give just a couple of examples, with amendment 13,116 it was intended to eliminate any interpretative uncertainty regarding the correct classification of waste with a so-called speculative voice; instead, with amendment 13,82 - also accepted by the Government - it was required that the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) respond to criteria of effectiveness, efficiency, cost-effectiveness and transparency. The reasonableness and common sense with which the original text has been modified in these points are the same as those with which the question of banking anatocism resulting from Article 31 has been addressed, accepting amendments to the deletion that are transversally shared. The same speech led to the approval of some corrective measures in the area of credit information, so that citizens, once regularised their credit situation, could see a positive recognition of this correction. Finally - and I start to conclude - intensive and relevant comparative work has been carried out on issues related to renewable sources and incentives, a certainly complex point of the measure that, not by chance, bears the name of "spalma" incentives. It is a complex measure for the economic scope of the issues dealt with, but also for the difficulty of harmonizing, in the remodulation, the long-standing problem of the weight of incentives in bills with the needs of the sectors involved, in order to avoid the risk that the sectors involved would see completely inhibited their production capacity. On this occasion, mediation had to be sought because the original wording of Articles 24, 25 and 26 was rather critical and penalising for the installations involved, also and especially for those sustainable types of excellence, in the field of energy efficiency, such as efficient user systems (SEU). In this regard, I want to make just one point to point out that much still can and must be done to root in our country a more complete and correct vision on energy efficiency; a vision centered on the promotion of the self-producer and on a review of the discipline on general charges and system also in view of the objectives of the 20-20-20 climate-energy package. Back to the text, mediations had to be found at the present time. I believe that a good compromise has been reached on Article 26, with the remodulation of the percentage quotas for reductions, as set out in the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs 26,100. On Article 24, however, more could be done, but it is true that we had to confront ourselves with a lack of resources, a too short blanket to which we had to adapt, without however resigning ourselves to the solutions of convenience, but looking for creative solutions in comparison. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. DI BIAGIO (PI). Certainly, any reflection on the issues related to the measure under consideration, worthy of further intervention, remains for us as an objective of further study, comparison and work; however, I believe - and I want to reiterate this here - that the work done on the measure under consideration has a very strong meaning. That is why, Madam President, I am beginning to conclude by hoping that the worthy and constructive attitude of confrontation that has been shown in the Commissions can become a consolidated practice in this Senate, where unfortunately to the circus saraband to which some perhaps of opposition have accustomed us, giving the synthesis of the nothingness of their representation, we, with firmness and love for our country, have made a contribution to good politics. I will conclude by highlighting the Group's vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u80	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Senators, Senators, the conversion of Decree No 91 of 2014, to the draft law No 1541 that we are preparing to approve, gives the opportunity to intervene significantly in some sensitive areas of our administration. This is a so-called omnibus measure and I would like to stress the positive aspect that I see from time to time in these measures, which make it possible to give a quick answer to questions that people naturally ask. I therefore believe that in this particular period of crisis we must be as swift as possible. This draft law, as has already been said in various interventions, contains urgent provisions for the agricultural sector, for the protection of the environment, for energy efficiency in school construction, for the revitalization and development of enterprises and many other points that I am not here to list. As I cannot dwell on the analysis of all the points and areas to which this measure relates, I would just like to make a few comments in particular on agriculture. I would just like to stress that the approach of the measure, which aims to reduce and rationalise controls on agricultural enterprises, by institutionalising the single register and by strengthening the institution of mistrust in the agri-food sector, gives satisfaction and response to this whole sector. I would also like to comment on this point precisely because the issue of controls on agricultural holdings is a very sensitive and sensitive one, because all too often we hear farmers and farmers, particularly mountain areas, complaining about the excesses of controls and the passages of the various bodies. Think that in the veterinary field alone there are three different areas: animal health, food hygiene and animal welfare, whose managers regularly visit companies to check and verify compliance with the various regulations. I would remind you that these are almost always regulations that derive from EC regulations, with the result of making life almost impossible for those who try to run their company according to the rules, honestly and according to common sense. This measure, which is a concrete step towards deburocratization, is therefore very good. It is precisely on the agricultural chapter that our Group has tabled several amendments, then adopted, with the aim of improving life, with this text of law, precisely those who continue to carry on in the mountains the activity of agriculture, which has now become courageous and almost heroic. I am referring to measures relating to the wine sector, where we have managed to introduce, with amendments, rules that enhance the quality and protection of small mountain farms or in the agropastoral field, with facilities for pastoral care and transhumance. I am also pleased with the adoption of important amending proposals, such as the one on the Stelvio Pass and in the field of rail freight, thus improving the viability of Alpine passes. Then there are particularly delicate interventions, which have already been reported before, such as those that modify the tariffs encouraging the production of electricity from photovoltaic plants. I believe that good work has been done in the Commission from this point of view to improve the measure, which is, however, very sensitive. There would still be many other points that have been touched on by this measure, but given the limited time available I will stop here. However, I would like to say a special thank you to Vice-Ministers Olivero and De Vincenti, undersecretary Degani, always present in 13a. Commission, and Mr Scalfarotto, to the Presidents of Commissions 13a and 10a, Mr Marinello and Mr Cucchetti, precisely because of their sensitivity to the needs of the mountain. With this, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies, PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u83	Barani (GAL). Madam President, of course I will not trust you because I believe that more and better should be done in this competition decree-law. What do you mean? Why do we make these decree-laws? Because we must enable our entrepreneurs, our companies, Italy as a whole, to be competitive in the European field (so we needed more courage towards Europe) and in the international field. To do what? What's the end of it? Work, development! We have to create a job. The unemployment figure of 13% (the youth figure has now exceeded 45%) shows us failure. We must strive to create work; it is only through work that development is created. These days we are talking about our Constitutional Charter. Well, the constituent Fathers and Mothers had well understood that it was necessary, with a philosophy that goes back a little 'to our national faith taking up a step of our Father with the symbolism "Give us today our daily bread" (Translated with Google Translate) But not bread in the strict sense, but work. We must not demand citizenship income; we must demand citizenship work. From Article 1, which says that "Italy is a democratic Republic based on work" to Article 4, which states that "The Republic recognizes to all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions that make this right effective": this is what we must fight for, not in other areas. Did you hear Senator Cattaneo first that you forced you not to participate in the vote the right lesson he gave you in such an important field? I am not repeating it because I have fully shared it, as I have shared the intervention it has made on constitutional reforms, in addition to that relating to research always during the examination of constitutional reforms. That is what we must make an effort to do, not to have the unnecessary debates that I have heard today. Listening to the speeches coming from the Democratic Party I came to make a comparison and I told myself: it is to see that the Renzi Government falls, as in Mike's famous TV show Good morning made a competitor, on the bird. Today I have heard speeches on birds and sparrows: but the citizens are interested in this relatively; they are interested in us committing ourselves to work and that is all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They want this, they don't want anything else. We, as opposition, try to help you, but in the previous intervention I showed you how, on the wave of interests that I do not understand, one tends not to listen to those who want to help. Having a divided and impoverished nation is nobody's interest. We must not act like those German princes who in 1700, always against each other, starved the people and then tried to agree. They have also made agreement now because Merkel is not ruling alone; they really are trying, with the great coalition, to carry on the interests of Germany, obviously at the expense of all the other nations, including ours. That's obvious to me. If we cannot understand that we must intervene on the Maastricht parameters, it means that we have someone in the government who is not able to understand and want. Without adjusting those parameters there will be no development and competitiveness. Of course, development and competitiveness must be achieved in all areas. The government has given us two months for the reform of justice in twelve points, taken up again today at the Ventaglio ceremony with journalists by President Grasso. In fact, with the justice that we have - I am talking above all about the civil one - there is no competitiveness, we do not come to invest in Italy. Is it possible that in 2013 Spain brought 44 billion investments and Italy only 11? They know our bureaucracy asphyxiates. The same goes of course also for defensive medicine in hospitals, for lack of reforms, but we must succeed in restoring health to the central level: we cannot have 20 different health systems. This also applies to civil protection, because we have 20 different civil protections. So, strong of this, I myself have tried to work hard to enrich the measure on competitiveness. I have tried to bring - as I have already pointed out - the will of the commissioner, who is a general manager of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to that famous amendment relative to the plans of return of the Campania Region, agreed with the undersecretary Delrio and of course with the President of the Council. The monitoring of this return plan is carried out by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport; all three of them, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Campania Region, try to bring those 700 million back and, therefore, try to prevent the creation of erarial damage and that the Court of Auditors intervenes. Who will the Court of Auditors speak on now? He will speak on the Government, which did not want to recognize the red compulsory boiling of the Ministry of Economy and Finance on the amendment that then disappeared from the decree-law. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we must strive to make the reforms and all those laws necessary to achieve a single objective: work. The evil of Italy came from those three words that produced five-six less GDP points, which came from Milan: "Resisting, resisting, resisting." They were the curse for Italy and the Italians. I, on the other hand, tell you that the blessing comes only from work, work, work. We have to work on this. When we can do this soon, then we will be able to look up at our citizens who have delegated us to represent them here, which we are not doing well. And that we do not do it well, the statistics say, because there is no recovery, there is too much unemployment (especially youth) and, above all, our researchers and our minds are forced to go abroad, as my colleague Senator Cattaneo has already said in a wonderful way some times in her speech. I conclude with one final consideration: the Constitution puts work among the fundamental principles. As I have already mentioned, it was written by liberals, socialists, republicans, Catholics and communists of that time; it was written at a difficult time for Italy, for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u84	You should finish, Barani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u85	Barani (GAL). I'm done, ma'am. With the weights and the counterweights it has allowed us to be here, today, to all of us, even to Groups that did not exist at that time, such as - for example - the North League and the 5 Star Movement. For this reason, yesterday I did not like to see the Constitution torn apart: I collected the papers; I want to bind them because those were made with the blood of our fathers. [[Senator Caleo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u88	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry that Senator Barani pointed out yesterday's issue of having seen the Constitution torn apart, but I believe that he will have to collect most of the pieces of this government to bind them somewhere. Thank you for that, Senator Barani, for giving me an incredible assist. Personally, I would like to thank the two Presidents of the Commission. Indeed, I would say three because Azzollini played his part in the budget committee. So I thank him and all the collaborators who, in various ways, have worked for and on this measure. I am also sorry for them, who first had to subdue a measure that was certainly not perfect and that they did everything to settle, even in part, trying to interpret the ability of the oppositions to do something to improve it. In view of the matters that this measure has within it, my colleague Mr Arrigoni and I, who have followed the procedure in the Commission, were surprised that the Committee on Agriculture was not meeting with us. They have rightly pointed out, however, that, if this were the case, we would have to bring together at least ten or twelve Commissions, in view of the issues discussed. I remember who listens to us from home that the Commissions are fourteen. Another consideration. Concepts such as competitiveness, simplification and relaunch have remained only words in transparency in the title of the decree that we are going to vote on today. I appeal to the government representatives to say that you have inaugurated a new system of making decrees: the famous model matryoska. In this decree another was placed, in which you included a large amendment, then the amendments of the rapporteurs, then our amendments. It's basically a matrioska decreto. And you've also been joking with fire while the country is sinking. Competition decree, they say: but competitive with whom, with what? Who are we competing with? Competitions must be done at least in two. It seems to me that we are doing a very lonely race where the opponent, even economical in this case, we do not see him, and if he is behind us it is because he is giving us the tour. Competitive with a currency, a supereuro that slows exports, even zeros them, and we have already played foreign competitors with this financial manoeuvre on renewables. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, I have also understood how the Government makes these decrees: in my opinion every Ministry - I do not know how many they are, now I am missing - should have a fax or his e-mail because the fax or e-mail address is only one for which 20-30 faxes or e-mails arrive in various ways, you clamp them and make a decree. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Give an e-mail address, a fax to each Ministry in such a way that a decree is presented that sings with one voice. Clearly, each email corresponds to an article. Is the competition between us? Among the young people in this country who start fighting with their fathers and older people to find a rag of employment? Among young people we have 45% unemployed, some have already mentioned that. Or are we talking about competition between generations? It's a terrible thing: young people don't get jobs and older people can't retire. Can you explain to me what happened to Dr. Fornero, the former minister? They tell me he's crying. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's been a while since you've seen it, and you don't even mention it anymore; but certain people who have taken care of this country must not go into oblivion. The competition: between the public administration that has to pay its debts, and does not, and the companies that wait months, if not even years, for their compensation, and perhaps, in the meantime, fail and someone with shame kills himself? No drive of domestic demand, balance sheets of companies and families irreparably compromised, a weak or even firm labour market from a very unstable fiscal situation and a growing public debt: if the competition is between these problems I hope that none of them will arrive first. Dear President of the Council, in this decree there was, and fortunately there is no longer (even for a special attention that my movement, the League, had), an article that, indeed, was luckyly dismissed: we were talking about anatocism, interest in interests, a shameful article. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bertorotta]] Fortunately, it was removed from this decree. We are always talking about times: tight times, narrow roads, speed, haste, the anxiety that the President has first and which transmits to all of you. It is what you feel, anxiety, on your skin when you set foot in this Chamber every day: the anxiety of the elections, the anxiety of making soon, the anxiety of measures that expire; battles against time. On 30 August there will be the EU Summit on Appointments: expect the good President of the Council to arrive with the flag to say that he approved, at least at first instance, constitutional reform. You know, I'm a man of spirit, let me say this: seeing the fans of Atalanta and Brescia twinned I think it's the last thing you can watch in football; it was a bit like seeing the Legists yesterday with the 5 Star Movement parading towards the Quirinale (there was also SEL). But remember that if Bergamo and Brescia go hand in hand in football, it means that the typhus has changed profoundly, and so it seems to me that it happened yesterday in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senators Gambaro and Mussini]] A funnel, a bottleneck, so trust. A question of trust that I see you have often used; yet, this legislature had started with other wishes: no confidence, even no decrees, especially not omnibus, but we also worked as oppositions. There was an opportunity in the Commission, as I said before, to correct something, little stuff, because Article 81 was always opposed. I have heard so many times about Rule 81 about our amendments that I thought that there was even Rule 162: twice Rule 81 on every amendment that the League has tabled! [[Applause from Senator Stefani]] Some of the amendments - we have seen this - looked like eels sprinkled with vaseline: they slipped into their hands; they did not understand what was going on. Even Dr Azzollini, President of the Budget Committee, had to come to this House to put some colored pieces in it, as someone in the Commission said the other day. The assistants have...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u89	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u90	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Ah. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ah, time passes fast, but I warn you 30 seconds earlier, so that you adjust. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Just one joke; someone will get angry, like my friend Fucksia and someone else: do we want to stop screwing with hunters? [[Protests from the PD Group. Senator De Petris' comments.]] We have to stop screwing with hunters! There is a culture behind the hunt and we have refused to vote down amendments. You have mortified a sector that, among other things, expects 96,000 employees and about 9 billion GDP. Madam President, let us do one good thing: let us close this Senate as soon as possible and finally. Renzi turned this Senate into his best campaign. Do you know what I feel, Madam President? I feel, as a senator, like those wedding favors that give you and you don't know where to put them: you put them on one side and on the other but they bother you and hope they fall on the floor and go in at least 315 pieces! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must conclude, Senator Council: your time is far exceeded. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Madam President, by reading what I have written to myself because it is in English. The world has changed so much in this legislature, that I had only one certainty in English, and now it's all the other way around: the table is on the book. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u93	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to reassure the Senator-Council, because last night there was a huge hunt in the Commissions. There was nothing missing about the hunt, Senator Council. Anything that could have been done, with a bit of a cross-cutting approach, the Commission and the majority have taken him home. It is not a joke, it is an issue on which we and, as far as I am concerned, my explanation of vote would like to focus, because I do not think it is a secondary issue at all. I must say, Madam President, that I have had to bitterly note that there are more than 800 or 1,000 hunters, who have managed to persuade the Government to change its text than many senators in this House, who have not managed to persuade no majority or government to make any major changes to the democratic system to constitutional reforms. Madam President, we are at the twelfth call for confidence of the Renzi Government, a Premier who has presented himself - as in the best tradition by now, but he shows it with a certain frequency - with the rhetoric of all the governments of recent times, that when they come to this House they say that they will not always resort to confidence and to the decree of urgency, while we are punctually discussing decrees and this, practically, is our only activity. In particular, this decree, as we tried to demonstrate yesterday in the preliminary question of constitutionality, is exactly the opposite of what the Constitution requires in Article 77, because it is absolutely uneven. It deals with an infinite number of subjects. We have come to the point that a decree on Ilva is announced in the Chamber, a decree to lose which is then transformed into an amendment and put into this decree. This decree deals with a number of issues which are certainly important, but which needed to be dealt with in a slightly more orderly way. For this reason, I will choose to focus on two issues in particular: hunting and live calls and the issue of renewable sources. In this decree there have been many articles concerning agriculture. So I am obliged, Madam President, having listened to Senator Cattaneo's speech, to make just one observation: in the meantime, I would like to reassure Senator Cattaneo that there is obviously some kind of prejudice in her speech, so she always represents enlightened research (which is in favour of GMOs) on the one hand, and obscurantists on the other, including us senators, who are against it. You know perfectly well that this is not the case at all; a substantial part of the research over the years has helped many of us. And I think I speak on behalf of many senators and senators who have conducted a battle of science and conscience on the issues of GMOs in this House because they have been supported by important research, by famous research names, which have shown what the problems were for contamination and the danger of biodiversity. There is another issue, precisely because this decree deals with competitiveness. Senator Cattaneo, this is your prejudice because it is not sustainable the idea, which you give more time, that the crisis in Italian agriculture is caused by the blockade against GMO crops. It's exactly the opposite! Our agriculture needs more and more to focus on quality. This is its true factor of competitiveness in the world. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]] On this we must strengthen it: its link with the territory, its identity, its many agricultures. This is our brand, the one for which we can play an important role; it is the primary sector in the world. I should like to make the criticism because, again that night, an amendment was adopted which loosened certain sanction mechanisms. But I hope that the majority and the government will continue to pursue a policy that is not bent on trying to relegate our agriculture into the hands of those who want approved agriculture. In this way we would not really know how we could, at that point, defend one of the most important economic sectors. I arrive at the night of the big hunt: Senator Di Biagio, there is nothing to smile about because I am passionate about this issue as I was passionate about yesterday's intervention. And I would like the government to listen to me because someone will then have to answer the question. We have been put on notice by the European Commission for this practice of live calls, which is illegal in some regions but not in all. The Commission's letter was very clear. It was therefore necessary to return to legality, in accordance with the provisions of the Birds Directive, which we discussed for a long time, even in the course of the adoption of the other Community law. On the other hand, the Government has once again bowed to a very small number of interests that go against the image of our country and that will provoke the reopening of the infringement procedure and the amendment approved absolutely does not respond to objections from the Commission. And let me say that I consider the practice of capturing small birds to be used as living reminders an immoral practice from the ethical point of view and respect for living beings: a cruel practice. We should have given a sign of civilization, not shame. I put passion in it because I consider them fundamental issues. In addition, I would like to ask how much longer and how much more Italian citizens (most of whom are opposed to these practices and hunting) will have to pay: they pay with their pockets the fines that we continually take from the European Commission. We didn't miss anything: the nutrients were removed from the wildlife. Instead of solving it scientifically, what do we do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, you should finish. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's give the go-ahead to the snow hunt. Not to mention renewable energy, the only sector in recent years that in a period of crisis and stagnation went in the opposite direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was a development factor and it had created jobs: we intervened seven times to create only problems. In the text of the Decree-Law we put this sector, investment and what has been approved, the final amendment, in no way improved, because it has perhaps created even more confusion. Therefore, we are taking responsibility - this would be competitiveness - for putting at risk a sector that, in a period of crisis, went against the tide and developed jobs. Now we have another 50,000-100,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u94	You have to finish, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u95	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As you can see, the elements to give this government confidence in this decree of competitiveness - I chose only two or three, but I could add more - are not really there. For this reason, we will not trust the Government; I believe that the Government does not really deserve it, even for everything that is happening - I want to remind you here - and for the imposition, which it is doing with pure demagogy, of the reforms. Madam President, the Government is only concerned with this in order to cover the reality of economic data, because this Government is not doing anything to give a real answer to the problems of the country and to the great social crisis in progress. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u98	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, it will be said that the measure we are debating contains everything, but certainly, looking at it with our own eyes, it contains a series of initiatives which are absolutely useful as a whole, to alleviate the burden of burdens on Italian companies and measures aimed at recovering certain competitive gaps which penalise our economic system compared to other Community partners and, above all, which penalise us in the global economy. It is absolutely necessary and urgent, I would say irreparable, that Italy seeks to build conditions so that there is a real recovery and recovery of the country's competitiveness. From this point of view the measure certainly goes in the right direction and is well articulated, thorough and developed by a particularly complex work. Senator De Petris said it was the night of the hunt; I say it was the night of an example of how we senators are able to have a spirit of sacrifice, self-denial and commitment when Italy asks us to do so. We worked on this and we committed ourselves: in the end we hesitated a good product that, however good and useful, certainly not enough. It must be seen as a starting point and it cannot be a single, monad or a single intervention, but it must be the part of a mosaic and an overall strategic programme, which creates a new policy of relaunching, simplifying and overcoming bureaucratic obstacles. The latter, in fact, relying on the administrative sustainability of certain legislative initiatives, have ended up sinking measures that seemed of great utility and even strategic, but that were then held back and lost themselves under the weight of the implementation difficulties, to the point that we are still waiting for the explanations, with hundreds of implementing measures that still lack to be issued. Now in Italy and in Europe there are the conditions, Minister, for this Government to develop an overall strategy for the revival of the country: they must be fully and fully exploited, because now more than ever we have the obligation to implement conditions of growth and employment. To do this, we need to make full use of all the possible spaces that open up at European level, also taking advantage of the Italian Presidency, in order to design an accomplished plan of economic policy, in support of the widespread enterprise and the productive sectors of the country that historically characterized its growth, identifying the order of priorities of strategic choices, within which must certainly have space and implementation the support for small and medium-sized enterprises, that have always been the engine and model of Made in Italy, making it great in the world. We believe that the measure we are dealing with today is an important opportunity to carry on this path with ever more courage and conviction and to give a signal of strong real discontinuity with all the attempts aimed at bringing our country back. It is necessary that we continue in the way for the development and the revival of the Country, through the liberalizations and the simplification, but avoiding to resort excessively to the use of the instrument of the implementing decree that risks, in many cases, to render inoperative the normative dispositions. We therefore appreciate the government's efforts to start a new season and a new reform strategy. This decree-law has been properly corrected in relation to the text proposed by the Government, thanks to the commitment of its contacts in the Commission, the rapporteurs and the officials of the Senate, whom I would like to thank - by joining the choir of all those who preceded me - because, together with all of us, members of the Commission, they have made possible a substantial improvement in the basic text, which - we have to say honestly - had several shortcomings. The decree was defined by several colleagues who preceded me as heterogeneous, omnibus and uneven, as to say that it was actually like a kind of soup; but, even soups always have something good. This decree certainly contains a minimum common denominator: growth, competitiveness and aid to businesses. So the effort that we have made is good because many topics have been worthy of attention and among them the interventions in the agricultural sector, the aid to young entrepreneurs engaged in agriculture and agricultural enterprises, the interventions for the support of the Made in Italy, the provisions in environmental matters, the credit of tax for investments in capital goods, the changes to the discipline of the ACE, the measures for the credit and finance, until the "cut" bills, with the "spalma incentives" that has been properly modified, making it more digestible. With this remodulation, strongly wanted by President Cucchetti, we hope to protect ourselves from future disputes. It is true that this principle is valid and we certainly agree that it is not fair or possible to burden Italian companies and families with position rents represented by extremely generous yields guaranteed in the past; today this is no longer sustainable for the country. But, at the same time, attention to this practice, which is being used too much, to question previous decisions: our reputation is in the middle of it and we cannot allow our credibility to be undermined, especially with regard to foreign investors, to whom we are working to improve our productivity and our competitiveness levels. We therefore believe, as a force committed to the Government, that the conversion into law of this decree will help to give an important boost to the project that we want to build, in order to start a virtuous path on the path of recovery that, although in great ascent and rife of obstacles, must necessarily be crossed. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u101	I would ask Members to lower their voices because, although they understand the tiredness, it is difficult for those who make their speech to overshadow the voices of their colleagues. CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, we immediately announce our explanation of vote: of course we say no to your request for confidence. This is clear, because we are going to vote on a decree, although amended in the Commission, which presents different aspects of unconstitutionality, as is often the case. This is the thirteenth time that the government has asked us to trust it and we, of course, for the thirteenth time, say no to it. Since we are also talking about constitutional reforms, it is interesting to think that we have included, within the basic text that we are discussing these days, what was provided for in Law No 400 of 1988, which specifically concerns the urgent decree. And because you put this rule in the government's basic text and you violate it, that's very funny, because in this case you're not doing something that goes against a law, but against the constitution that you would like to approve. This shows how much consistency there is between your right hand and your left hand, or rather, between your right brain hemisphere and your left brain hemisphere, which are obviously not connected. The decree under consideration is unconstitutional in many respects, including the heterogeneity of its contents. There's a bit of everything in it: it's about school building, agriculture, energy. It's a nice mixed fry, as you often do. You have also taken the ILVA Decree-Law to include it in the conversion text with an amendment. I don't think that's exquisitely correct either. Let's start seeing what's going on. We had a wonderful sitting of the Commission, since there was an urgent need to approve this decree, which ended at 7.15 a.m. in the morning. It was very interesting to have this sitting suspended many times during the night; and in this continuous going they constantly changed the cards on the table. It was a very interesting experience. On this night, as others have already said, we were able to see how deaf the government was in the face of a series of amendments which we had proposed and which were obviously intended to improve the text. But the government was anxious to be able to say "we did." And this anxiety has proved to be superior to the anxiety, the right one that the Government should have, to say "we did well." See how you can just move a word? It is not important what is done, but to be able to say that it has been done. You are doing the same about constitutional reform: it doesn't matter what the content is, but it is important to say that it is you who can't do it, or that I have done it. If this is your way of acting, we will always fight you and you must understand it. If you do things right, we will always be at the side of those who propose them, regardless of who does it. If you want to do your usual crap - as Gaber would say - we will always be against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What matters, as we have said, is not what you do, but perception. Minister Scalfarotto (or Deputy Minister or Undersecretary, I don't know, because I don't care at the end of the night) began to say that an amendment couldn't be approved because, if it was right, it was perceived by public opinion as something that was not right. But is communication your measure of judgment, making the public feel something? But what is your purpose? Doing the good of the community or what is perceived by the public? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] When do you wake up? When do you have a whisper to try to do the right things and not things perceived as right? It is right to do what is needed and you must have the dignity to do it, otherwise you will never change. Because if you have lost this dignity, you will always find us in contrast. This decree, just to say how it is used in my area (I am Campania), is a package. It's a nice package with a knuckle, because we put a knuckle in it, but it's still a package. There's a lot of interesting things inside, like a nice attack on photovoltaics. The attack on photovoltaics is beautiful because in Italy, a few months ago, for two hours - you know all - we had an energy production from renewable sources equal to the demand for energy on the grid; we covered the country's total electricity needs with renewable sources. Well, that's good, so we need to stimulate, improve and expand this development. What do you guys do? Violate a right, the right of a private person who has made an agreement with the State, on the basis of the tariffs that the State itself has decided, and you tell him: that what I decided before was not good; then everything is adjusted and it gives a little less. This is a violation of a right. Do you know how many appeals they make to you? You know this ends badly? Then you included in the maxi amendment a rule that shifts the debt from today to tomorrow: for a period of time I give you less money, then give it back in three years and start paying more. Is this debt shifting? Is your breath short? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] When do you think you're doing something sacrosanct? Why do you need money today and move the debt to tomorrow? Is this your way of programming? Is this the vision you have of the future of Italy? But aren't you ashamed? (16.04) (Followed by CIOFFI). Besides, if you wanted to make money, if you wanted to find some change, you just had to do something else, we told you: we pay 650 million euros a year for interruptability and 500-600 million a year for the capacity payment, they are subsidies that we give to fossil sources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You can't understand that we have to cross, cross this river that separates us from our future and you have to start to understand that we have to do something else. We need energy storage systems, because we need to accumulate the electricity produced from renewable sources that have the small problem of discontinuity. We have many initiatives already ready, such as the pumping plants made at the time by ENEL that in 2002 produced eight terawattora per year while in 2012 they produce 1.7. Why do we have the systems and we don't make them work and then go get the money from photovoltaics? Shame on you, shame on yourselves! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention military areas: ex-military areas become no longer green areas but industrial areas, because if they are green areas you have to make serious and deep changes; instead they are industrial; so let's just bonify a little, barely, it costs less. That's nice. We put the worst crap in it, and then we bonify little. You should also be ashamed of this. Not to mention a subject that is dear to me: we have included in this decree-law the identification of a commissioner to create an incinerator. What a beautiful piece of crap: an incinerator in Campania Region. Do you know why you want to do that incinerator? I know there are people who have struggled and committed themselves to pulling this measure out of the decree-law, but the government has been deaf, and the government seems deaf to remind you of who is in charge here: you and we do not command anything. The Government commands; indeed, the entire Government commands only one, the same secretary of the party. We have made the total merger of the Legislative and the Executive: they are superimposed from now on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u102	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u103	CIOFFI (M5S). Apart from that, we make an incinerator in Salerno when the EU directive tells us that we can no longer burn everything that is recyclable from 2020; so we make an investment, which is private, when in 2020 it will no longer have fuel. Why should a private person do this? I tell you: in Campania there are 8 million ecoballs stored and you want to burn them without understanding that that is a gold mine. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Inside, in fact, there are plastic, steel and aluminum. That's a mine! We import everything we need to do these materials; we have a mine and you want to burn it; Shame on you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u106	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Renzi, if I had the opportunity to speak to you (unfortunately in this House we had the pleasure of seeing you only three times, indeed twice if you exclude the day on which you asked for confidence in the programmatic declarations), I would ask you, beyond your commercials and your way of communicating so convincingly, if you think that measures such as today's are really the right cure for a dying country (yes, President, our country). If he could answer honestly, without self-celebration, he would tell me that the Italians are giving a placebo-effect cure. Yes, because once again he is telling the Italians, deceiving them that there is growth, that they will soon have less tax pressure, that there will be employment, etc. etc. But she always honestly knows that's not true. The country Italy suffers more and more, young people are depressed, there are no job opportunities, entrepreneurs live under a strong tax pressure, we cannot attract investments, Italian families with great dignity for too long face daily hardships to survive, many elderly we see them every day asking for alms and picking up food in the food and fruit and vegetable markets. This is unfortunately, President Renzi, the real reality of our country. We are now faced with the umpteenth decree, which was given the nicknamed illusionist decree competitiveness. The names of the measures of the Renzi Government, it is right to recognize it, are highsonant, challenging, while the measures are always weak and of dubious utility. Faced with the need to give a shock to the country's economy, which has been standing still for years, the Government responds with a series of rules that are absolutely uneven in content and objective. There is no overall strategy, there is no clear economic policy to facilitate the business system and create the conditions for the creation of new jobs. Above all, there is a lack of a secure, lasting tax system that encourages investment. There are some useful measures, but they are so episodic, to be covered by the sea of the forecast of subsequent implementing rules, of which the regulatory process of the last three governments is already paved. From the Monti Government to the Renzi Government we had: save Italy, simplify Italy, grow Italy, destination Italy, which today we can only translate into "poor Italy." [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Carraro and Candiani.]] The Renzi Government is in continuity with the futility of the governments that have held the country steady for four years. The rules of the last three governments - Monti, Letta and Renzi - are still waiting for about 800 decrees and implementing regulations, in the absence of which any simplification hypothesis remains dead letter. This will be remembered as the Government of bonuses. Bonuses are episodic measures, which lack the fundamental objective: that of the certainty of the tax system. The first reform necessary to move the country is the one that reduces the weight of the state, that asks the public to take a step back both from the management of the economy, with the many companies participated and controlled, and reducing the complicated system of authorizations that attacks our economic system. The long iter authorized to do business involve times and costs not conceivable with the epoch of global competition of the economy, with Countries that have emerging economies and that, having started for a few years, have given itself minimum rules and very low taxes. The system of authorizations - which is not simplified even in this decree, because they are re-proposed SCIA and self-certification for companies, replicating them from the construction sector that is one of the most suffering - creates that Italian monster that is the public administration. For precisely the decree at our examination was born together with the other decree that concerns the simplification of the public administration. But there is no trace of simplification. In what is almost unanimously recognized as the sector from which a wounded economy starts, both after a war and after a recession, the construction sector, remains untenable constraints and bureaucratic burdens. There is a need for a complete abolition of the rules concerning the bureaucratic process necessary to renovate your home. Authorisations must be replaced by controls and penalties for abuse. We must remove all the obstacles to the economy: less economy, less wealth. Wealth is not redistributed, President Renzi. Wealth is created. And the more wealth you create, the better the citizens, all the citizens. One way to create wealth is to reduce taxes permanently. Each euro of less taxes is a euro that can return to the virtuous circle of the economy. First of all, we need a tax shock on labour income, a reduction that is compensated by the enlargement of the tax base. If taxes are more just, the more individuals are inclined to pay them. Renzi has so far failed to examine economic policy. Saying - as Renzi did yesterday - that if growth in 2014 is 0.2 percent instead of 0.8% of GDP doesn't change anything in people's lives, it shows disarming superficiality. [[Applause from Senators Santangelo and Mangili]] : 0.6 points of GDP less is about 9.3 billion unproduced wealth. It would be enough to implement the solutions, which we have partly suggested, that have adopted all those countries whose economy grows, rather than stagnating. Password: to promote the market. In this sense, a reduction in taxes, implemented with a simultaneous reduction in public expenditure, is the only solution that can certainly be appreciated by those who want to invest. If we look at the crisis, from what was generated, we see that at 31 December 2013 there were financial derivatives on the global markets amounting to 710,182 billion dollars, equal to 9.6 times the world's GDP. The amount of derivatives in 2007 was 10.56 of GDP. The whole crisis and the global recession have been triggered on that huge figure. A small part of the derivatives in circulation serves companies to ensure them from the risks associated with the business activity, the rest is a wealth from the feet of clay from which you have to stay away. It is therefore necessary to direct the savings of Italians and banks towards the real economy, keeping them away from those very dangerous forms of investment that still weigh on global finance. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]] Only a fair tax that does not penalise the remuneration of investment in businesses can help the economy to restart. All the measures that go in the direction of a recapitalisation of companies, aimed at investment, are to be put in place. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]] If this is not understood, even the most rosy growth forecasts will be denied and the country will continue in a slow decline. You, President Renzi, have asked for a trust that we cannot give you. One thing is the constitutional reforms on which the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group reaffirms its willingness to find common solutions to overcome the slowness of bicameralism, another account is the socialist policy that carries out this Government and that sees all our opposition. We would have liked to participate, with a sense of responsibility, in the drafting of the measure, a sense of responsibility that we do not see in President Renzi. As far as the lack of comparison is concerned, we call on President Napolitano to restore as soon as possible the value of Parliament humiliated by the constant demands for trust, just as the Italians are humiliated by useless and ineffective measures. For these reasons, the Senators of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will not participate in the vote of confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u109	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, may I also, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, first thank the rapporteurs, Senators Mucchetti and Marinello, the representatives of the Government who have followed such a demanding measure, all my colleagues, of the Committees on Industry, Agriculture and the Environment, not only of the majority groups but also of the opposition, because beyond the cries, which have also been raised in this House in recent hours, the work done in the Commission has been useful, valuable, which has benefited - I would like to acknowledge - from the commitment and contribution of all indifferent. I would like to thank the officials, both the Commissions and - let me stress this - the legislative offices of our groups. This measure has the ambition to help boost the competitiveness of the Italian system. God knows how much this is needed in a country system strongly bent by a long crisis, by a very long recession, which has seen a quarter of its productive capacity consumed in the last five to six years. It is the most serious crisis on the continent since the post-war period. To all this we must respond with an urgent, modern and effective industrial policy, relaunching the competitiveness of the production and manufacturing system of our country. This decree-law, in the drafting with which the Government presented it to the Chambers and dismissed it, but even more so - let us claim it as Senate of the Republic - after having been amended in a useful way and strengthened by the work of the Commission and the consequent vote of the Assembly, is a measure that we consider useful in achieving these objectives. The latter can be better understood if the public administration is less hostile and more friendly than the enterprises; if the reduction of the burdens and the costs of the energy finally reaches the families and the small and medium-sized enterprises; if the opening to the markets becomes a daily objective aimed both to the consumers and to the system of the enterprises; if the process of valorization of the made in Italy nourishes of concrete measures; if the internationalization of the enterprise is achieved; if the access to the credit and the financial markets allows to capitalize and therefore to make more solid especially our small enterprises. Well, if all these objectives are achieved as soon as possible, it will be easier to meet the need, which can no longer be postponed, to revive production, gross domestic product and the competitiveness of the Italian system. The decree-law makes an important, useful, though probably not final, contribution to the achievement of these ambitious objectives. It does so in the field of agriculture and agri-food (the 9th Commission's colleagues, starting with those of the Democratic Group, spoke of this in the general discussion), introducing the single register of inspection checks, very simplifications, the network for work and for the emergence of undeclared work and network contracts (finally also available to agricultural companies). One of the most significant innovations is zero-rate loans for young people who want to embrace the agriculture sector. It also does so on the environment, first of all with interventions of very strong simplification on the annous and unresolved topic of the industrial reclamations of our country. Look, I want to say here too, in a serene and very frank way (because this is one of the issues on which it is most speculated in the discussion and political confrontation), that for twenty years continuously the identification of sites of national interest has led to very few (you can count on the fingers of one hand) concrete, real interventions of reclamation. We have introduced simplifications which aim, on the one hand, to implement concrete measures to secure and restore the environment and, on the other hand, to make reusable an immense heritage of industrial areas often served, infrastructured, which today are depressed and simply abandoned. It does so by intervening on a controversial, ancient subject of recent years, but also by defining in this case a deadline, once a final time, to launch a new European competition and to offer companies operating in the field of the environment and waste a technologically more modern and even more efficient service (I refer to the SISTRI regime). We do this by intervening on the energy efficiency, on the hydrogeological failure with more effective powers in the head of the Presidents of the Regions, simplifying one of the ancient themes - the dredging of the ports - in order to start a new phase of investments in infrastructures so decisive and important, which the harbour ones. We do so on the subject of companies, with a strong intervention aimed at contributing to the capitalization of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening the ACE instrument, amplifying the segment of incentives from tax credit to the Sabatini law, strengthened after this decree. We do this by intervening on an ancient subject, I said at the beginning: a more friendly administration of companies, with interventions aimed at simplifying, strengthening the terms of self-certification, of business agencies; simplification tools that can improve the daily lives of entrepreneurs and make it easier to do and become entrepreneurs. We hope that one of the objectives, namely the interoperability of public administration databases with the same business agencies, can start a new phase of civil revolution in the relationship between business and public administration. Finally, we do this by intervening in tourism, with the "condo-hotels," interrupting the theme of banking anatocism. President Cucchetti is right, he spoke about it in his speech. The statement we had here, when we heard the Banca d'Italia in the Commission, was unexceptionable from the formal point of view. We, together with other groups, have chosen to delete this article with the commitment, which we call Parliament and Government, to discuss together with consumers, businesses, the ABI and the Bank of Italy to build a model of relations between banks and businesses, between banks and consumers that puts at the centre the weakest person, businesses and consumers, also with respect to the issue of bank costs. We are still doing so - and I am going to conclude - on the subject of energy, renewables, so-called incentives, one of the thorniest and most controversial. The measure that will come out of the Senate is certainly better and more useful to achieve the objectives that the Government had set itself and that we share: to offer these savings at the disposal of the reduction of the energy bill in charge especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. On the subject of renewables, I say this in a clear and incontrovertible way, for the Democratic Party the choice of renewables, not since today, for a long time, is a strategic and irreversible choice. In recent years we have contributed in this country to change the paradigm of energy. Before there was fossil at the center and something next, today, also thanks to the choices supported by the Democratic Party, at the center of the energy strategy of the next decades there are renewables, energy saving, energy efficiency. Of course, there will still be a need for an important share of energy fed by fossil fuels, without which the system does not make itself stable. But, alive God, hearing in these days of renewable killings, fossil government, the Democratic Party that supports different choices is the furthest away from the truth. We have made a choice which in no way intends to call into question this strategic objective. No renewable plant, after this decree, will be impossible to realize. In fact, even in this decree we have made choices to support the area on which renewables, in the coming months and years, will be able to make a further contribution, i.e. the theme of self-consumption, energy efficiency. Of course, if the investment funds, international and national, which have invested heavily, are true, but they have also speculated very much (legally from the financial point of view), we ask for a completely marginal contribution compared to the spreads, to the huge gains they have made in a financial bubble phase, which has governed the growth of incentives for renewables, well, I think that nothing has to do with the strategy of support for renewable energies that the Democratic Party intends to carry on even more in the coming years. The last theme I want to recall is the strengthening of a rule that the Government intended to issue with its own decree, merged into this provision, which concerns the future of the ILVA plant in Taranto. The Government has identified in this decree two important norms. On the one hand, the need for the AIA to be fully implemented in its environmental recovery objectives and, on the other hand, the prededucibility of bank debts to enable that liquidity without which in the coming months there will be problems to pay salaries and suppliers. Mr President, the parliamentary examination in the Commission over the past few hours has led to two other objectives which we consider to be particularly important: on the one hand, we have strengthened the powers of the subcommissary delegated to the implementation of environmental plans, which are the precondition for the restoration of the damaged city, protection of the environment and of the health and productive continuity; on the other hand, we have made it possible, where the extraordinary Commissioner considers it useful, the availability of resources seized from Riva to make them available to the company's capital increase and tied to the implementation of the environmental plan. It is certainly a controversial subject, but with absolute awareness and conviction that it has given a further contribution to this extraordinary objective of winning this epochal challenge for the Italian industrial system to keep together the future of the largest steel works in Europe with 15,000 jobs with the continuity of production and with the protection of the environment and health, we believe that this is a choice that goes in this direction. In conclusion, Mr President, let me say that in these hours when in the newspapers, but also, unfortunately, in this House, a policy comes back that we do not like, especially because it is useless for Italians and it does not solve any of the serious problems that they live every day, that policy of screaming and shouting, we have responded by helping to improve a useful measure for Italians with fruitful work in this Senate with competence and listening ability. That is why we will be proud to vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u110	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u111	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Amoruso is drawn by lot.) Some members of the government represented institutional commitments for which they asked to vote first, as well as some senators; exceptionally the President decided to accept. [[Comments of Senators Candiani and Bellot.]] Therefore, Senators Giannini, Nencini, D'Onghia, Chiti, Naccarato, Fornaro, Tocci, Pagliari, Quagliariello, Casini and Schifani will vote first. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Amoruso. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bianconi, Borioli, Bubbico Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Peg Pizzolini, Carini, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Finocchiaro, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghio Esposito Giuseppe Fabberi, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fincori, Findino, Di Firingino, Fornigoni, D', Fornaro, Fornaro, Fornaro, Fornaro, Frangori, Gianni, Franzi, Fanti, Fanti, Fanti The senators say no: Barani. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 161 Senators voting 160 Majority 81 Favorables 159 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and SCpI groups.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 91 are therefore precluded or absorbed. I note that the Presidency intends to be empowered to make the necessary coordinations to the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-292.ana.u113	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 28 July, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
