ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1464, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question and a suspensive question were rejected and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, to whom I would remind him that he has eight minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u9	Mr President, colleagues... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u10	Colleagues, I would remind you that the sitting has begun and that the rapporteur would like to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u11	ICHINO, rapporteur. Various interventions in the general discussion on the decree, in particular those of colleagues De Petris, Buccarella, Barozzino, De Pin, Puglia and Paglini, have denounced an unconstitutional claim of this decree for violation of the principles of the Charter in the matter of work. None of them, however, has indicated what the constitutional rule would be violated; nor could they have done so because, in reality, our Constitution contains no rule, neither on the stability of the employment relationship in general, nor more specifically on the application of the term to the relationship itself; nor on the issue of apprenticeships. The argument of unconstitutionality cannot be supported even in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, since it has always stated that it is entirely within the discretion of the ordinary legislator the choice not only of the quomodo but also of the quantum of the protection of the stability of the jobs. With regard to the specific subject matter of the forward contract, I recall that the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2000 cited - if I recall correctly - in the intervention of Senator Puglia, limited itself to declaring constitutionally illegitimate a referendary question which aimed at the complete repeal of the rules of the forward contract. On that occasion too, the Court made it clear that, on the other hand, it falls within the discretion of the ordinary legislator, the quantity and the standard of regulation of this matter, without prejudice to the observance of supranational principles and rules. My colleague, Senator De Petris, spoke of the inherent unreasonableness of the new rules of the term contract. Now, considering that - as I noted in the introductory report - with this new discipline Italy aligns substantially, in the matter of the term contract, with the orders of very civilized European countries, such as Germany, Switzerland, Holland, Great Britain, Sweden, the thesis of my colleague De Petris would be tantamount to claiming that all these Countries have been practicing unreasonable legislative choices on this ground for decades. And even that it would be unreasonable for the International Labour Organization, which in almost a hundred years of existence (I remember that the International Labour Organization will be making its life in five years, in 2019) did not consider to identify any requirement universally due to national laws in the specific field of the term contract. And equally unreasonable would the European Union, which by its directive No 1999/70 tolerates the most liberal systems on this matter, such as those mentioned above. Yes, because - as my colleague Rita Ghedini said yesterday - that directive allows each of the Member States to choose even one of the three limitation measures relating to time contracts: the obligation to state reasons, the maximum total duration limit and the maximum time limit for contracts with respect to the company's workforce. Of these measures, the decree before us adopts two of them, although it is allowed by the European order to adopt only one. I already hear the usual objection coming: We cannot compare ourselves to Germany, Holland, Sweden and Great Britain, because in Italy we cannot do the things we do in those countries. Why can't it be done? "Because in our country the labour market works very badly." No one, among those who share this objection, wonders whether it is by chance that our labour market is working very badly precisely because we do not try to do as we do in Germany, Holland or Great Britain. Precisely because we envelop the working relationship in a dense web of prohibitions, restrictions, bureaucracy, complications, controls and improper costs, which constitute as many obstacles to the growth of labour demand and to its encounter with supply. The president of the 5 Star Group, Senator Buccarella, then spoke of "disharmony" of this new legislation If my colleague intends to say that the decree marks a significant step in the evolution of our judicial system, I can only agree with him: I will return to this point shortly. But if you mean that this new legislation is systematically inconsistent with the principles of our legal system, I really cannot follow it. If you refer to civil law, I remind you that in our civil law, from the Napoleon Code onward, that of the temporary nature of contractual links between private individuals constitutes a general principle. If, on the other hand, it refers more specifically to the working order, I remind him - but above all to the too many enthusiasts of the role of the judge in industrial relations - that the Constitutional Court does not lose an opportunity to affirm the principle of the inconmissibility of the choices of management of the enterprise. If, therefore, for once, the legislator chooses the technique of protection consisting in the fixing of an external limit to the powers of the entrepreneur (which is the maximum limit of total duration of the term relationship, or the limit of quotas in relation to the company staff), instead of the technique consisting in the subjection to the control of the judge of the motivations of the management activity of the entrepreneur, it seems to me that this legislative choice is, between the two, the one that best harmonizes with the general principle affirmed by the Constitutional Court. My colleague, Mrs Paglini, regrets that an amendment approved by the Committee on Employment has limited to companies with more than 50 employees the obligation to convert a 20% share of apprenticeships into ordinary work, arguing that, since two thirds of apprentices depend on firms below that size threshold, we would thus deprive two thirds of Italian apprentices of any hope of access to stable work. Do you not wonder, Mrs Paglini, whether in the world of enterprises with fewer than 50 employees there are more apprentices to whom such a rule effectively guarantees stabilisation, or are more the apprenticeship relationships to which such a rule inhibits the birth? I would remind you that the rules do not have the power to create demand for work, but unfortunately they have the power to inhibit it. We must abandon - and this decree takes an important step in this direction - the idea that the freedom, dignity and safety of the worker are all the more protected the more the working relationship is plastered by rules, assisted by lawyers, subject to the intervention of inspectors and judges. [[Brusio.]] I call on my fellow senators to pay a minimum of attention at least on this point: we must begin to recognise that there is no lawyer, inspector or judge who can guarantee the freedom, dignity and safety of the worker better than they are guaranteed by the effective possibility that that worker has to leave by slamming the door from the company where he is treated badly, because there is another company that offers him better working conditions. So - to begin with - our priority should not be to preserve old casts of employment contracts that now the new generations see more and more far away, but to provide services in the market that allow those who seek work to know the tens of thousands of places that in every Italian Region today, even if in crisis, remain permanently discovered for lack of people with the necessary skills (these are real occupational deposits that we waste daily).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u12	Senator Ichino, I must invite you to conclude. I've already given you several more minutes, but your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u13	ICHINO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would just like to ask you for two more minutes. I was saying that on this point there is full sharing with the stresses coming from the M5S Group. In addition, we need to focus on the measures to align our system with the best international standards, in order to make Italy more and more capable of attracting the best of global entrepreneurship. Of course, in order to attract foreign investments we also need to reduce the differences in tax pressure and energy costs that penalise our country, but let's stop with the "benaltresmo": we also need to simplify our labour legislation and equip ourselves with a labour market where demand and supply meet more easily and with lower transaction costs. Neither the first measures nor the second ones are enough: both the first and the second ones are needed. And the government is operating on all these land. Just the story of this decree-law, on the other hand, seems to me to have highlighted how the dualism between stables and precariouss about which Mr Lepri spoke yesterday in his speech is son of the wall that in the past decades has been erected in defense of the incalibility of the discipline of the regular working relationship to indefinite time. Without that wall, it would have been possible to intervene in a more balanced way, with reference to the new working relationships, on the side of permanent work as well as on the side of term work. However, in this regard, it is very significant how rapidly the times are changing the fact that yesterday in this House many speeches (in addition to that of Senator Lepri and those of Senators Favero and Puppato, those of Senators Dalla Zuanna and Santini, for this aspect in harmony with that of the President of the Commission Sacconi work) have referred to the issue of the permanent contract with increasing protection as a fundamental chapter of the organic reform of which we have opened in recent weeks the yard. As Senator Dalla Zuanna said, our labour law, even if it is 15 years late, is entering the 21st century. Of course, this decree-law is only a very partial intervention: it has no claim to anticipate the reform in all its scope. Senator Fucksia is right: most of the school's theme is missing here. I say almost completely, because Senator Berger has the merit of promoting... president. Senator Ichino, you have to finish. ICHINO, rapporteur. ...the amendment that enhances the experience of dual apprenticeships, based on school-work alternation, of which today the Provinces of Bolzano and Trento are capable, urging all the other Regions to imitate this experience. I shall conclude, Mr President. But it also lacks, and could not have been included in this urgent decree, the whole chapter of services in the labour market and the experimentation of the relocation contract about which Senator Santini spoke yesterday. As well as missing... president. No, you have to finish! Senator Ichino, I'm sorry, you've spoken much more about the time assigned to you! [[Applause from Senators Barozzino, Endrizzi and Malan.]] FILIPPI (PD). That's enough! ICHINO, rapporteur. However, Mr President, this is also a measure... PRESIDENT. Senator Ichino, if there is a quota of the times for the majority and the opposition, it is right that there should be a quota for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ICHINO, rapporteur. All right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can deliver the written text, if you think so. ICHINO, rapporteur. I then deliver the written text. I shall confine myself to this final remark. In this decree-law, therefore, there are many things that are missing. Relax Senator De Petris: it doesn't match my dreams at all. However, it is a very important step: it marks a watershed between two seasons or, if you prefer, two very different cultures in the field of work. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Petrocelli shows the presidency a watch.]] The interventions carried out yesterday in that part of the hemicycle by colleagues Pezzopane, Lepri, Ricchiuti, Favero, Santini...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u14	Senator Ichino, please...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u15	ICHINO, rapporteur. ...witness the maturity of a conviction common to a wide range of political forces... PRESIDENT. Senator Ichino, don't put me in trouble with this House. Deliver the text, and thank you for the report. ICHINO, rapporteur. I turn myself back to the Presidency and hand over the written text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to deal with the final stage of this measure. I would like to make a few points about methods and points of substance, since the rapporteur has already made a detailed reply to what happened yesterday afternoon. The first consideration is that the decree-law in question was exposed to a double risk. On the one hand, like all the decree-laws, it was considered by the parliamentarians a bit 'a fast bus that reaches its destination and therefore there was the temptation and the attempt to get on it in many, or rather to load the bus of many issues and issues that at times had nothing to do with the measure. It is a legitimate temptation, given the timing of parliamentary work, but on the other hand we know well that the decree-law, as it was born, had well-defined aims and objectives. Moreover, the decrees-laws are born for reasons of necessity and urgency and therefore cannot but have an intention, let us say, surgical, that of achieving objectives of regulatory modification or introduction of new rules in a sufficiently rapid manner, in short time, that is, the sixty days foreseen for their conversion to Parliament. It is equally true that if the bus of the decree-law is loaded with too many weights, in the end it risks never arriving at the station, whereas the Government's intention, but also of Parliament's, is clearly that the measure arrives at the final station in good time. The second consideration is that this measure, since it was the first that the Government issued, was taken as a test by the Executive, so obviously there have been many attempts to verify whether the intentions expressed in the text issued by the Council of Ministers had their solidity and also a sharing of the forces that support the Government. At this point, it seems to me that with regard to this dual temptation, or to these attempts, on the one hand, it can be said that the measure can come to an end in good time or, better, in those established and, on the other hand, that the consensus expressed by the majority forces, in the dual parliamentary passage to the House and to the Senate, through the work of the Commission, has its solidity and has produced a text that has neither changed nor remained at all with respect to the text that was issued by the Council of Ministers. Recalling what the rapporteur has already said, I would also like to say that the objectives set by the Government are not for the salvation of the world, for the global reform of the labour market, for the resolution of all the problems raised during the debate (which are, moreover, of absolute importance and of great importance). By simplifying, the objectives were essentially three: the first is to allow companies to be more agile in managing employment relationships and in particular in hiring. Clearly this objective is linked to the economic phase that we are experiencing and in this regard Senator Ghedini has already reminded us that the main problem is the crisis of demand. On the other hand, a sharp editorialist from La Stampa, Mario Deaglio, last July had observed that, comparing our economic picture to a lawn, on it began to see slender grass threads. The same editorialist, last week, wrote a new editorial, saying that those slender grass threads are becoming a first flowering, a lawn that begins to green, but those grass threads are still very fragile and the recovery, for a long time announced, does not yet have that solidity that is necessary to bring about significant consequences both in terms of GDP growth and employment growth. Therefore, the first aim of the Government was to ensure that companies, in this economic framework that presents positive elements of innovation, could better grasp the opportunities and elements of development and growth that are beginning to see themselves. Secondly, the aim of the measure is to ensure that forward contracts - which are by far privileged by companies in new recruitments, also on the basis of the table that the rapporteur has set out in the Commission, representing two thirds of the total number of new recruitments - have a longer duration than they have so far. On the one hand, there is, in fact, a lack of visibility for companies on their economic perspective (often short and very short) and, on the other hand, there is a set of rules in the pre-existing legislation that has produced a somewhat perverse result: almost 40% of existing time contracts have a rather limited duration, around three weeks. The second objective of the Government is therefore to ensure that these contracts last longer, even up to thirty-six months with five possible extensions. This second understanding is related to what was expressed in the preamble to the bill, first included in the Chamber and then amended in the Commission work in the Senate, that is to say with the measures provided for in the draft law delegation at work, which obviously has much more important and broader ambitions than those contained in this decree. By changing and making the management of both time contracts and apprenticeship contracts more agile, the Government then intends to pursue a third objective: it is expected that this intervention will lead to a breakdown of the forms of contract which have no or little social protection for workers. It is not by chance that Senator Santini correctly recalled yesterday that the fixed-term employment contract, although having a term, provides for the social protection of the normal fixed-term contracts. The Government therefore expects the redefinition of these instruments (term contracts and apprenticeships), carried out with the measure, to make them more competitive compared to VAT consignments, co.co.pros. (not entirely legitimate) and to the partnership contracts in participation. Parliament will have to measure the effectiveness of the measure proposed by the Government with regard to these objectives. It is no coincidence that, following the discussion in the Chamber, a rule has been inserted that the Government after a year must submit to the Chambers a very detailed report based on the mandatory communications that employers must do every time they hire a person, so the Chambers will be able to verify whether the objectives that constituted the motivation of this measure have been achieved. Mr Poletti himself, with a pragmatic attitude, said that if these rules do not achieve these aims, the government will obviously have to lose hand. Therefore, Parliament has the opportunity to make an on-time check in a year's time. There's a second consideration I want to make. From the debate and speeches I heard yesterday afternoon I think there are two caricatures to escape from. The first caricature is that the nice Minister of Labour is described, by the 5 Star Movement, almost as a slave merchant. It seems to me, far from improbable, even ridiculous that the Minister of Labour can be attributed an intention of this nature. As well as, on the other hand, by Forza Italia there was an observation for which this provision was good at the beginning, while now it has become a garbage due to the changes desired by the Honestly, it seems to me that both caricatures are completely out of place and do not correspond at all to reality. The government in this sense has properly, and I believe necessarily, compared with the Commissions and the parliamentary classrooms and I think that, thanks to a work of listening, dialogue and correction, the measure has today improved and integrated with respect to the initial text, although it has not lost the original elements, that is, the understanding and the objectives that I have stated before. The rules which have been introduced in the House and those which the Senate's working committee has approved and which are now before this House are therefore the result of this work of dialogue, of construction and also of dialectic, as is normal in a Parliamentary House. I want to remember the corrections and additions that were introduced to the House. I am referring first of all to the decrease in extensions from eight to five in the balance between renewals (which do not have a defined number) and extensions (which have a defined and punctual number, precisely five). I am also referring to the rule that better protects women in maternity in respect of the transformation of the contract from fixed time to indefinite time, for which the compulsory leave period is considered and counted as long as it is necessary to acquire the right of precedence. This same rule has also been extended to the transformation of the contract from fixed time to fixed time, always and only for women who are in the period of maternity. Secondly, I have already said that the House has introduced an important rule, which commits and obliges the Government to present, precisely on Articles 1 and 2, i.e. on time contracts and apprenticeship contracts, a detailed report to the Chambers, so that it can make a timely verification. I believe that this is a methodology to be introduced in our ordinary legislation. Since laws are not dogmas of the faith, punctual checks with reality allow you to make adjustments and changes deemed necessary. Thirdly, it has been reiterated what was already contained in the legislation, but pointed out in detail, about the transitional period in the application of the new rules. I am referring primarily to the reference to national contracts which, if they have more favourable rules or different terms and agreed between the social partners, are valid in principle in relation to the same rules as those contained in the law. Therefore, the social partners are not at all expropriated from being able to give a more punctual application and more tied to the different territorial and business realities. Moreover, the derogation which has been introduced on the age of apprenticeship, if this instrument is used for the attainment of the qualification or professional diploma, is a standard coordinated with the so-called Carrozza decree, with which an interesting experiment is started on apprenticeships. I would also like to mention the application of the DURC to Article 4: it is a tool that is simplified in its management so that the necessary and indispensable controls do not become a bureaucratic burden that prevents companies from doing their job, that is to say to generate activity, work and wealth. At the Senate, the elements of innovation that I think are worth remembering are different, but I would just like to mention a few of them and, in particular, the issue of sanctions, on which the rapporteur has spoken for a long time. I think that the rule has found - as it were - in the text approved by the Commission a balance of its own and I would also say its effectiveness: effectiveness detersing from opportunistic or distorting behaviour on the part of companies. It has received a very broad consensus, I would say virtually unanimous, the rule that allows exceptions for research entities, both public and private, to the 20% constraint on all fixed-term contracts precisely because of the specific nature of these types of companies or entities that normally operate with a completely specific and particular organisation. The extension of the duration of the period beyond thirty-six months for all those fixed-term contracts that see the worker engaged exclusively in scientific research, seems to me to be an element that allows us to make the most of the work of researchers and companies to be able to use all the resources that also the international institutions, in particular Europe, make available. I shall conclude with two final comments. The training element for apprenticeships has been reinforced in relation to the training provision which the regions must prepare in a more appropriate and continuous form than has been done so far. Finally, I would like to mention the introduction of the possibility of seasonal apprenticeships, in the sense that an end can be made to the apprenticeship contract in those regions or autonomous provinces where the system of school-work alternation is in place. After all, I believe that the work done so far has not been insignificant or distorting in any way with respect to the initial intentions of the Government. This is an improvement work that allows you to have a law that clearly aims at precise objectives and improve the employment conditions of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u17	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u18	Mr President, since it is the Government's intention to raise the question of trust, I call for a suspension of the twenty-minute sitting in order to table the relevant amendment. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Paglini.]] PUGLIA (M5S). No! You can't work like that! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u19	Colleagues, someone may be right that the Senate should be suppressed if you behave in this way. I am suspending the sitting until 10:45 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.19 a.m. and resumed at 10.54 a.m.) Colleagues, the Government's amendment has been received, but it is not yet accompanied by the technical report. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m., so that the question of trust can be put formally on the text and its accompanying technical report. (The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.35 a.m.) Let's resume our work. Colleagues, since the documents that the Government is about to present to the Assembly are still being defined, I further suspend the work until 11.50 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 11.53 a.m.) Let's resume our work. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments, sub-amendments and additional articles, of amendment 1,900, which I am going to present to the Presidency, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1464, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 34 of 20 March 2014, with the amendments already approved to the Chamber of Deputies and the amendments proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u21	The Presidency takes note of the imposition of the question of confidence on the approval of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of bill No 1464, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 34 of 20 March 2014. Therefore, in accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission so that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it will inform the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore suspend the sitting in order to allow the meeting of the Conference of Leaders to be convened and held in order to organise the debate. (The sitting was suspended at 11.54 a.m. and resumed at 12.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u22	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the maxi amendment entirely replacing the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the revival of employment. Today's single sitting will resume at 1 p.m. Once the opinion of the Budget Commission on the financial effects of the maxi amendment has been obtained, the general discussion will begin, for which two hours have been allocated among the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow and then you will call her. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, which does not include closing hours, the discussion of the decree-law on housing emergency will begin, the examination of which will continue next week, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 13 May. Also at tomorrow's sitting, the deliberations on the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of attribution will be placed on the agenda. The other topics already included in the timetable of proceedings remain confirmed. [[Wednesday 7 May ant. h. 9,30 - Following bill n. 1464 - Decree-Law n. 34, raising occupation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 19 May) - Deliberation on the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of attribution - Drawing of law n. 1413 - Decree-Law n. 47, emergency housing (Scade on 27 May) Thursday 8 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 8 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 13 May ant. h. 11-13 - Possible follow-up of bill n. 1413 - Decree-Law n. 47, emergency housing (Scade on 27 May) - Drawing of law n. 14 70 - Decree-Law n. 36, drug addiction (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 20 May) - Drawing of law n. 1430 - Decree-Law n. 58, measures for the regular conduct of school service (Scade on 7 June) - Ratifications of international agreements " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 14 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 15 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 15 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1470 (Decree-Law No 36, drug addiction) and No 1430 (Decree-Law No 58, measures for the smooth running of the school service) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 8 May. Time distribution for discussion on the question of trust in the draft law No. 1464 (Decree-Law No. 34, boosting employment) (2 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[PD 1 h 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCp 26' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1413 (Decree-Law No 47, emergency housing) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1470 (Decree-Law No 36, drug addiction) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1430 (Decree-Law No 58, measures for the smooth running of school services) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.42 p.m. and resumed at 1.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u23	Let's resume our work. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u24	Madam President, the meeting of the 5th Commission took place very quickly, because the text of amendment 1,900 is the one adopted by the Commission on the subject. We had therefore seen it from the financial point of view, on the part of the text and on the amendments voted by the Commission, and therefore for the Commission the ex-Article 81 assessment of the Constitution had already been carried out. Moreover, the government's technical report was positively verified. So our opinion is in favour. During the sitting in the Commission, there was only one speech, which focused more on the substance of the issues, which the senators will be able to develop in the course of the speeches they will be making in this House. Therefore, even individual senators have not highlighted any critical issues within the meaning of Article 81 of the Constitution. Our opinion is therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u25	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u26	Madam President, I repeat that I am not in favour of this decree-law, let alone the maxi amendment. I am particularly sorry that the maxi amendment has been tabled because, in some way, it results in the deletion of the debate on the amendments that the other political forces had tabled... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u27	Excuse me a moment, Senator Bencini. I call on the few senators in this House to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u28	Please, Senator Bencini, continue. BENCINI (Mixed). I would have liked the amendments tabled by the opposition forces to be discussed in this House, because some of them were certainly of common sense, so perhaps they could help to find the square, let's say, to meet the agreement of the audience within Parliament. However, I do not agree with this: there is a large amendment and it ends up for everyone, there is no discussion and there is no progress. I believe that the precariousness that is being created in this country is not only the fault of a political will, but of a set of factors: it is a structuring, they are European and global mechanisms that are leading us to a very difficult condition at the moment. As a Parliament and as a policy, we must commit ourselves to finding guidelines that lead the work back to a central position, that bring back the industrial activity of our country to relaunch the economy in such a way that new horizons are opened up and new jobs are created, so that the workers return to the centre of attention and to have permanent jobs. This is what we should focus on, as a people and as a Parliament. The flexibility of work may be good, perhaps, for certain types of categories. As I see it, for medium-high categories that prefer to have a working flexibility: this is the case for managers of large companies, managers, who however have a very high economic quantum, and for whom that flexibility, that fixed time is an added value. For most workers, instead, flexibility, fixed time are not absolutely added values, but a personal and social damage, because they do not give the possibility to plan their lives, to be forward-looking, to look beyond, to look to the future, and this blocks the person. If we focus on fixed time we do a great deal of social damage, and we do it further when we go to touch this type of contract without simultaneously focusing on security. As has been said several times, flexibility is important, given the current economic downturn, but the life of a person, his social security, is also important. Consequently, it is important that the worker, as well as the flexibility, can count on safety: safety of not remaining in the vacuum once he has lost his job, of being able to count on a minimum yield that allows him to project into the future, of having a training path that keeps him up with the times and a job offer on which to build a future and personal security. Of course, I will vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u29	Madam President, today this Government puts trust, demonstrating once again that it does not respect the work of a branch of Parliament elected by the Italian citizens, on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, of this President of the Council, who until proven otherwise, was not elected by anyone. You have pointed out to the four winds that this provision should have modified the Fornero law, a law voted by the Democratic Party and also by many colleagues who should now sit on our left. With the measure we are considering today, however, do not modify anything of the Fornero law, but only make small changes that do not change much the existing one. It is a reform that has not resolved and that will not solve the problem of unemployment (which today is 13%) not to mention the problem, created with the famous Fornero reform, of all the forgotten exodus. The true reform of the Fornero law is making it the North League with a collection of signatures in the gazebos for a referendum to repeal it [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group),]] collecting signatures that is going so well that people who come and are not voters of the League and tell us: we come to sign against a law that we feel hateful. We are convinced that this work measure, like the previous work decree (if you remember, ladies and gentlemen) that had arrived in the Chamber a few months ago, will no longer bring employment. You promised us in this House, with the Letta Government, that the then work decree would certainly bring a great many jobs and solve the problem of employment in the South thanks to European funds. Well, that labor decree brought zero more jobs: new jobs were created by the market, but certainly not by that labor decree. Employment - an important word, and perhaps at the moment in the mouth of too many people - is not achieved by decrees: employment is achieved only by competitive companies. But today companies are not competitive, for two reasons. The first is the single currency, this euro that is killing Italian companies and not only: the no euro front, in fact, is not only in Italy, but throughout Europe, and is stronger than ever. The second reason is the tax burden. We must not only look at what is happening in Europe, but also at what is happening at home (I repeat: not only in Europe, even at home). With this measure, in fact, the tax burden is not touched, and that on the job brings to its knees the companies, which therefore do not assume. From us, the tax burden is at 68.3%, in Slovenia at 34 percent and in Austria at 50 percent. I am not talking about China, Bangladesh or who knows where, but about European countries, which have a tax burden of almost half of ours. So, why should an entrepreneur invest in Italy? If I were an entrepreneur I would go abroad, where I certainly pay less taxes than a state that kills me and does not allow me to work. If we wanted to solve the problem of unemployment, we had to do two things: repeal the Fornero reform which, by increasing the retirement age, makes our businesses less competitive and practically impossible to employ young people, and reduce the tax burden. You didn't. You didn't do anything and you're not doing anything. Why? Because it seems that this job act that we fill our mouth with will come into force in 2015: so not tomorrow, not the day after the approval of the reforms at work, but in 2015. Then why all the haste? Why the Haste of Trust Today? Could we not reason and get serious together about labour reforms? Where's Renzi's famous rush to solve problems? Renzi is in a crazy hurry right now, but the problems aren't solved. He hastens only to reform the Senate, according to what he said the first time he came, to occupy the seats for appointments and tweet. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the rush our President-in-Office has made: nothing concrete. We needed bolder and stronger measures; we needed the same courage that the President-in-Office of the Council has when he faces journalists to promise; we needed lower taxes and more resources, which you say there is not. Well, there are resources, and everyone knows it: money is there because you save money with empty prisons (this is undoubtedly), and you would save it with immigration. At this moment, in fact, the Italian State spends EUR 10 billion to welcome illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It spends zero euros to lower the cost of labor: 10 billion for those coming out of Italy and zero euro for our young people. The money could have been found through the fight against evasion on real estate and tax; the funds could be found through the fight against gambling, going to take the money that owes us and taxing slot machines and gambling, which creates ludopathy and therefore further sick people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] We had concrete proposals, but you with the vote of confidence that you wanted to silence those who tried to improve the measure. It is a vote of confidence on the part of those who have no arguments to confront us; the vote of confidence of those who, after last night, when this majority was saved by those who are in the middle of the ford and do not know whether to stand on one side or the other, at this moment is afraid to come to the Senate and of those who continue on television to describe the Senate as the absolute evil. If we are the absolute evil, why come to confront us? Better send a minister and ask for a vote of confidence. How can we give confidence to those who do not want to confront us? How can we give trust to those who do not reform the Fornero law seriously? How can we give confidence to those who spend EUR 10 billion to welcome illegals and zero to restart work? How can we give confidence to those on TV who make fun of our people by saying that with 80 euros you can shop for 15 days? How can we give confidence to whom - that is, you - created the drama of exodus and today washes his hands of it? Dear colleagues, our people do not trust you, your tweets, your smiles and your false promises. We are the voice of those who say to you: "Enough." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u30	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u31	Madam President, unfortunately, once again we are faced with a decree which comes to succumb to the claim of yet another vote of confidence. The question of trust is raised on a sensitive and important subject for the lives of our citizens, such as that of the rules that oversee the working relations, with the claim, frankly absurd, to solve the problems of this country on the economic and employment front with greater flexibility of the working relations and the condition of the workers. Flexibility works in healthy systems, not in sick systems such as the Italian one. Flexibility works where unemployment rates are physiological, where one who loses his job finds him, not in a tragic situation devastated by all the choices made by these governments, so technical, so devoted to the definition of new contractual forms of work. Flexibility works, that is, where work exists, not where it does not exist. We could go, and I call on the rapporteur and the Government to do so, to the workers of the Alcoa who have been in the tents for years and years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAP groups]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I urge them to go to them and say: we have now solved the problem; now, with the rules on flexibility, the fixed-term contract and its extensions, we have solved the problem there. You didn't solve anything for them, because this economy is sick, and she's sick because you poison her day after day. It is no longer conceivable that we are dealing with subjects of this nature, which are so penetrating... CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). You're with PD! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please don't interrupt, please. Allow each one to speak, please. URAS (Misto-SEL). ...by changing the living conditions of our workers, in ways like these. These measures are adopted without debate, without there being any real deepening in this House, without adequate involvement of the social forces, without there being a prior agreement, won with the consent of reason, on the solutions found with the trade unions, without there being a real solution to a dramatic problem such as employment. This problem - I repeat once again - is solved by the construction of work, by fulfilling the fundamental reasons of our Republic, which, I repeat, is not based on flexibility, is not based on enterprise, is not based on profit, is not based on the social injustice that we consume daily, but is based on work, that is, on the right to active participation in the destiny of this nation of each of us, of every worker; to active participation through the construction of a collective well-being, to active participation through the construction of a healthy economy. This says our Constitution, the one you violate in merit and also in forms, through this hyper-decretion and through the misuse of the vote of trust. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAPp Groups and the Bottician, Paglini and Bencini senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u32	I would like to greet the delegation of representatives of the Regions of the Russian Federation, who will participate in the Italian-Russian Commission on issues of collaboration between the Parliaments and Regions of the Russian Federation and the Italian Republic. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u34	Madam President, it is with great regret that I have to say that we are in an unworthy situation from the point of view of the methods of discussing this measure. The Minister of Labour, who is the only signatory (in addition to the President of the Council) to this measure, to which the Government and the majority attach great importance, has never been seen, we have never seen him in this House. Probably, he has too much to do with other things: evidently laws are less important than who knows what other things he has to do. The President-in-Office of the Council, who is the other signatory to the measure, would be too much to ask to have him in this House, because it is difficult to expect him to participate full-time in television programmes. This, however, would be Parliament, this would be the body that has to approve the laws. Whether the Chambers are one, two or three, they are in any case the organs that should approve the laws. As for Mr Boschi, we have seen him appear as long as it takes to put one of the many trusts. The Secretary who followed the measure is not present. I greet, and thank you for your presence, the only Undersecretary I see in this House now, but this is not really a decent and respectful attitude. I would remind you that there are representatives of the Italian people here. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella):]] One may participate in the television programs, in the congress of the PD or the union, but here are the representatives of the Italian people, according to the Constitution. The rapporteur - I must also say quite rightly - has disappeared, because since the imposition of trust he no longer has any role. We are, therefore, in a paradoxical situation, where really, with little sense of decency, the discussion was granted two hours, that is less than half of the time lost in the melina made by the government and the majority because it could not draft the text, it could not have the technical report. The government, which also had time, at least since the Commission's work ended its sessions (it gave the rapporteur the mandate already the day before yesterday), took 36 hours, instead the Senate must do everything in two hours, and all of course with the imposition of confidence. Basically, the government approved a text, then placed the trust, identified itself with a very different text, which is the one approved by the House: now, with a text still different approved by the Senate, it puts the trust again. Here we have schizophrenia, and the problem will be increased in case there is only one House that makes the laws, because we will have laws made even worse, if the attitude is this. Madam President, in this context, I would like to convey to you this grave discomfort and pain in seeing this kind of institutional degradation, to which is added the very serious statement made by the President-in-Office of the Council, who attacked the rugged and very good officials of our study services, who have always done their work, with all the governments, right, left and technical, and when they have found some cover problems, they have pointed out them. Well, no President-in-Office of the Council had ever dared to attack them. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio]] In addition, on petty pay issues, which are not relevant in this case. In this context, arrogance is added to other arrogance that has never been seen in these classrooms, at least in the last seventy years. Turning now to the substance of the measure, I would like to highlight very briefly the main problems. The 20% limit has been introduced to fixed-term contracts, which have never been seen before. It has been thought of as a solution to the problem with great good will - I must say - from the rapporteur and from the majority: it has been thought of as a solution to the problem of trade, tourism and entertainment with an agenda full of good intentions. But between article 1 of a law that says a thing and an agenda, the magistrate who will be called to decide what he will listen to? Will you listen to Article 1, which is granitic in putting the limits on these contracts, or to the agenda that you wish the Government to make a circular saying something different? Let us not forget that the magistrate is not in a position to decide on an abstract matter, but he will have the duty to protect the opposing interests of the employer and the worker, and the latter will be able to sue the entrepreneur if in the field of trade, entertainment and tourism his rights will be violated, if he will see that the law says in Article 1. So, between two opposing interests, both legitimate, the magistrate, even assuming his absolute good faith, will he listen to the text of the law or to the agenda? Not to mention that we know the ideological array of many magistrates, who have already prejudiced the part to be protected. But we assume...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u35	Senator Malan, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). ...what should be the rule, that is absolute independence, so we must trust the goodness of the magistrate in the application of a decree-law. Does this give confidence to companies for the purpose of hiring? No way. Businesses need certain rules, a framework of certainty: exactly the opposite of what creates this measure, discussed in times and in ways, I repeat, indecorous and that are an insult to the Senate, Parliament and the Italian people who are represented in these Chambers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u37	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u38	Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, is in a hurry. He is in a hurry because he has a political logic to take, consume and escape, a political logic that is the same as this jobs act. It is a hypermarket logic of labour law, I must say, with the principle: you hire two and then fire three. On the other hand, what could I expect when the President of the Coop, an expert in precariousness and impoverishment of local economies, is co-opted to the Ministry of Labour? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We should vote for the new policy on the work of Mr Renzi, yet another measure - I stress yet again - against people, to protect a race which is the owner of the great industry, of the great finance and, now, of the great distribution. That elitist race that used to get third people's hands dirty to socialize debts and privatise profits, for example, of that famous factory called FIAT and which is now parcelling accounts, taxes and employment abroad. Now it goes straight to the point, with the Renzi Government, and appoints in the Ministries people directly interested in conditioning market logics and workers' rights. In fact, we have Federica Guidi, a great expert, together with her father, at the Ministry for the relocation abroad of Italian companies, in managing to maintain both public incentives and made in Italy, although they are the owners of Asian companies. We should trust this act of the Government of Mr Renzi, who is the son of a precise Italian political culture, where a sign of privileged, through the parties, occupies the State and if it shapes it in its own image and likeness, precariousizing not only the workers, but even the work. In Italy, we know, unemployment is deliberately endemic, because it is called occupational blackmail. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It's that most disgusting part of the clientele work that you, parliamentarians of all parties, do on the ground. The more precarious you are, the more you can extort the vote in your electoral colleges, from the perspective of that culture of the exchange vote that is within the DNA of this ruling class. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Madam President, our illiterate grandparents have fought against fascism and the backdrop; you, instead, representatives of the parties, have become latifundists and fascists.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u39	Please use the appropriate language in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u40	PETROCELLI (M5S). Absolutely! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please use the appropriate language in this House! AIROLA (M5S). Zanda said it! Zanda said it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Airola, please. I'll call you back the first time. PETROCELLI (M5S). And despite your degrees, dear Senator Ichino, you are not even able to imagine an economy of rights for workers and of free market for those who want to do in Italy truly free and not privileged enterprise. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You do not have the culture and you do not have the free hands to lower the exorbitant costs and taxes at work, reduce the impossible energy costs and shake your prehistoric concept of taxation, removing the medieval taxes on workers, work and property realized with the savings of the people, to tax instead the rents of the great movements of capital of the banks, the occupation of the soils of the palazzinari, the industrial mistreatment of the environment and the gains that are matured today thanks to the evolution of the technology that, less bad, compared to thirty years ago, reduces considerably the costs of production of the processed matter. Madam President, these are gains that do not go into the pockets of ordinary people, but into the pockets of a few, to the detriment of the community. They go into the pockets of those who oblige you, representatives of the parties you are, to give birth to laws against people, to whom you have taken away the dignity of earning a job by competence, you have taken away the right to retire and, since you were there, you have also removed the liquidation. I am referring to the reform of the TFR, wanted yes by Tremonti and Maroni, but anticipated by Prodi for a year, and to the tearful - crocodile tears, however - reform Fornero, wanted and voted by the Berlusconi-Bersani confindustral duo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are two of the most left-handed shots left to the Italians in recent decades. The third is this measure, which, however, will be that too much that breaks and that will bury you politically, with a laughter of accompaniment. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so. (Senator Airola stands up and shows that he wants to intervene.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you don't have the floor. Have a seat. AIROLA (M5S). On the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sit down. You have the floor when I, as President, decide to do so. Please, Senator Galimberti. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, AIROLA (M5S). That's impossible! We can't even talk in this House anymore! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You sign up, and you know it. AIROLA (M5S). On the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's my second call. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] You must comply with the registration order decided by your Group. AIROLA (M5S). On the order of business, you can let me speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, Galimberti, please. [[Senator Airola leaves the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u42	Madam President, I am sorry that all too often Members do not respect the procedures and languages appropriate to this House, but this will certainly not prevent me from pointing out my thinking, which is then that of the Italians. I am referring to the scourge of unemployment, which this measure aims to reduce, although the public figures reported to us by ISTAT indicate the exact opposite. This is a measure that will not create new employment. This measure will increase unemployment in 2014. It is a measure that will only lead to a slight improvement, probably and fortunately, we hope, in 2015 and 2016, but leaving unemployment that will still exceed 12%. The young people, the young people to whom this measure would have given an injection of confidence and hope for the future, and to whom there is no confidence and no hope. Madam President, if it is true that work must be defended, as we believe in a determined way and as the Constitution itself indicates, we need a change, which must certainly be done quickly, but not with the haste demanded by the Government, a haste which does not allow a parliamentary debate and which does not allow the modification of a measure that was born wrong and which, alas, with the imposition of the question of trust will remain so. It is a wrong measure because one cannot think that work is separated from business and that the fate of workers and businesses is not directly connected with each other. How, then, can we think that this measure creates new jobs, when companies are forced to jump, as if they do not already have enough jumps? In fact, the 20% logic is introduced, which goes to punish with useless and harmful sanctions, which do not even benefit workers but simply punish companies. Madam President, if we wanted to create new jobs, we might have to use that 10 billion to reduce the tax wedge. I would like to remind you that it is an oppressive tax wedge, which places Italy in sixth place for labour costs and in twenty-sixth place for workers' net income. We are in a situation where companies pay very high wages and workers receive very low net wages. If those 10 billion had not been used for electoral propaganda by the Renzi Government, but used for the reduction of the tax wedge for new income in the world of work, as President Berlusconi pointed out in his statement, then we could have created new jobs, created 500,000 jobs and helped those young people who today have no hope. The fact that the possibility of democratically debating in this House is being removed, perhaps by making improvements to the measure, forcing us instead to submit to the logics of a government that only knows how to give answers to barrels of confidence, leads us to respond to this confidence a dry no. This is not the system to grow the country, which needs good growth instead. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u43	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u44	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the senator who preceded me because it seems to me that he opposed the action of the Government. Considering that yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Government saved their asses, we must thank them for their consistency. I'm just saying this as a background. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Government has put its trust in this bill of conversion of the decree-law. Once again there is a forced force: the Government forces the Parliament and the Senate. Except that you want to abolish us and, therefore, what do you force us to do? We're ghosts anyway. Why do you keep doing this? Why does the government continually impose its will on Parliament? That's a question I ask myself. Why? What's the point of this constant forcing? Doesn't really help us, or does our being here still make sense? This is of course true for those who are there, because, as usual, we are always few. Why do we keep doing this? That sounds crazy. I find this constant forcing of trust is a great absurdity. Don't you trust me? Why are you doing this? Why? Tell us we don't need it. But you have to say it. As we go into detail, let us say that we want to compete with flexibility, we want to improve competition, create jobs by reducing labour costs. On the other hand, this criterion is also found in Decree-Law No 66, which is under discussion in the Senate. Is the job created, however, by reducing the tax wedge or by acting on industrial policy? Do we want to compete with India and China? Are we able to compete with these countries, or could we no longer simply take an example from what others do, produce things differently and produce things differently in a better way? Does the government have an industrial policy? We see that there are companies that were leaders in some renewable energy sectors - so dear to us - that they have not been defended, but they have been bought by foreign companies; we have lost some excellences and instead we continue to defend perhaps useless things: is it right? What industrial policy do we have? Otherwise, how do we create these damn jobs if we have no idea what we want to produce? When we approved the Marzano decree unlocks power plants in 2003 and we encouraged the construction of 25 new gigawatts of gas-fired thermoelectric power plants because we had to improve the Italian thermoelectric park, we have abandoned the old power plants, and now we are with twice the electrical production capacity compared to the demand. What are we gonna do now? Since there is the usual occupational blackmail we give money to those who produce energy from the fossil! What the hell kind of reasoning is that? Do we have any idea what we're gonna do, or do we keep screwing up? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I feel crazy. Senator Ichino said that freedom is to slam the door in the face of the employer and be able to change jobs. But it's crazy to me because if you lose your job, you starve to death! What he says works in an ideal world! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Senator Ichino, with all due respect, but have you ever worked? I don't know. I'm a freelancer and if I don't bang like crazy, I'm starving! So, I can't figure out what the hell we're arguing about in here. And once again, does the government want our confidence in such a measure? But I'm not dead! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is always interesting, we must note that many times we use words of which we are not perfectly convinced; but more than referring to myself I am referring to those who represent the Government at the moment, when they say that listening is convincing or when they say that Parliament is important to open a debate, a dialogue to build laws in the interests of the country. Well, they say it in words, that then in fact they do not materialize because, as the previous colleague said, we (but in reality the term "noi" is incorrect), the government does nothing but put confidence on a continuous basis. However, the most serious thing is not that the government puts trust, but the attitude of those parliamentarians who today, yesterday and the day before yesterday support and have argued that the dialectic within Parliament is the salt of democracy. Yesterday and the day before yesterday they shouted in the Parliamentary House (just think of the years 2008, 2009 and 2010) that there were bad governments because they allowed themselves to bring to the attention of that Parliament confidence. Then they were criminalized and referred to as monsters who were creating the conditions to destroy democracy and Italy. Well, today, those same Members not only do not intervene in this House to criticize the incorrect attitude of this Government and a certain pseudo-president of the Lenzi Council - I apologize: Renzi - who allows himself to be a kid and to play with Parliament as if he was playing with the lead soldiers, but yesterday they shouted at the scandal and today they not only do not shout but are also absent in the Parliamentary Assembly to make themselves heard and to call this pseudo-representative of the Italian people, this certain Lenzi, that is Renzi (I apologize), who should represent the people, but they do not recall it. In fact, they applaud him and tell him good: good because he puts trust, good because yesterday he put trust, because he puts it today and because tomorrow he will continue to put it; Good because it is killing not only Parliament but also the salt of democracy; good because it is constantly telling lies and lies; good because it is not in a position to represent a country. But those parliamentarians support it precisely specifically, because they need someone to overcome this moment of difficulty, of "empanz" and "panza", this moment of difficulty that is carnal only and exclusively for someone who represents today the non-political logic. What does non-political logic mean? Non-political logic with capitalism means that it does not represent the logic of politics but the logic of partyism and the interest of shop, which are above the interests of the country and of this House. When colleagues from the 5 Star Movement come to the House to draw more attention, I apologize, they did not understand a fundamental fact. Many of them, who represent the majority, do not speak with the heart; they will hardly miss an adjective, a verb, a predicate, because they have studied everything at the table and know perfectly what it is that they will have to lead to achieve a result: to grow the "panza" (panza). What does "panza" mean? [[Senator Scilipoti addresses the Senators of the M5S Group. Senator Petrocelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u47	Senator Scilipoti, please address the Chamber and leave the intercourse with the 5 Star Movement alone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u48	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). "Panza" in Sicilian dialect means that many are interested only in populism, in having an exclusively temporal return, but have no interest in building something concrete in the interest of the country. So today, Madam President, when should we bring to the attention of this House certain words such as 'vocation' (vocation for what? For Group interests?) or other terms that have been used, of a great character that I admired and esteemed, that was the reference point of the Italian left, Berlinguer; that spoke of total commitment in politics, professionalism and non-professionalism, happened in this Parliament there is not in many parliamentarians the professionalism but there is the profession, that of exercising the role of parliamentarians from four, five, six, seven, eight legislatures, thinking that inside this Chamber you become eternal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish, please. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). To conclude, Madam President, I am saddened by the vote of confidence that the Government has requested, but I am even more bitter about those who have been in this Senate for several years and allow such disasters to be carried out in this House by mistreating Members of Parliament, but, even more serious, by mortifying the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u49	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u50	Madam President, first of all, I have to bring the voice of my colleague, Mr Airola, who has moved away from the Chamber, to point out that what he would have wanted to say is that you have censored the use of the term 'fascistoid' by Mr Petrocelli, but that term had already been used against us by the chairman of your Group, Senator Zanda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This was the clarification, and the invitation to consideration of rightness....
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u51	I would have interrupted Senator Zanda, too, I assure you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u52	BULGARRELLI (M5S). No, no! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do, presiding; I assure you. BUCCARELLA (M5S). There are the Reports of the House; we could have fun checking it out. Apart from that, we are trying to give a word of truth, which also comes out of this House, which at this moment, given the time of lunch, is deserted or half-desert, noting the great deception of those who propose this decree-law that supports the greater flexibility of the working relations in and out, basically, saying that it is aimed at combating unemployment and at helping businesses; well, that is a lie. We must clear the field of misunderstandings here in this House immediately by saying that those who love businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, the true economic and social structure of this country, excuse us - indeed, you must not even excuse us, because this recognition we demand - but we are the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we can support it on the basis of all legislative initiatives. Senator Scilipoti, remember that most of the governments that asked for trust are the ones that led Berlusconi. Closed the necessary parenthesis, almost on a personal basis, in reply to my colleague Scilipoti. Who really cares about business is us, and we don't make words. [[Comments by Senator Scilipoti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u53	Senator Scilipoti, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u54	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. We do not say that in order to support empty principles or to make electoral propaganda: we do so in fact, and so far we are the only ones to do so. You know that we senators and colleagues in the House of the 5 Star Movement Group put back the surpluses of our salaries and competences in favour of that small business guarantee fund. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, who wants to follow us in this? Who can give concrete examples, not announcements, but help businesses? With this premise, according to which those who care about companies are us, at the same time we are today denouncing the assault and the demolition of workers' rights, because this duality, in which ideological tradition has forced the political debate in this country, must break, as we are doing with our pragmatic approach. Since 1997, in the so-called Treu package, this party policy has been dismantling protection and labour rights, creating precariousness and increasing unemployment. The heaviest interventions - from the Treu package to this job act - have been made precisely by the so-called left, the one that should represent and protect the interests of the workers and that, instead, is the most diligent executioner of orders coming from the financial markets. In fact, here the real and only goal that we want to achieve - and it is not even said that we will reach it - is to attract large multinational foreign companies in finding 'cinesto' labour made by our Italian citizens, especially the youngest! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the only real objective, because they know - as Senator Ichino knows - that it is not with the increase in flexibility that unemployment is being combated. On this I believe that there are scientific studies which he cannot fail to know, at least on an experimental level. Of all the talk of the Renzi Government, the only concrete thing that has been done so far - we must take note of it - is this, which penalizes the workers and makes the contract precarious the rule from today on. The jobs act - perhaps this too has escaped - even violates the Charter of Nice of 2000. It is a Community act of liberalism, attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It lays down the guidelines on the labour law of the Member States in the European Union and stipulates that forward contracts must always have - I stress this: always - a causality justifying the application of the term; moreover, it requires that contracts with training purposes, such as apprenticeship, must always provide for a time to be devoted to training, otherwise, in addition to being violated the sacred rights of workers, the rules of competition are also violated. Remember that this is the sixth time that the Renzi Government, installed by a handful of weeks, asks for trust in the Chambers. We ask ourselves: when will Renzi stop raping this Parliament? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When are we gonna stop feeling your crocodile tears? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Buccarella: do not confuse that term, which is very painful for many women, with politics. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Go on. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I take note of the comment. But at this point I say to you that when any senator should use terms that may be in abstract referable to sexism, we will make it clear. But no, we will not: let us not use this hypocrisy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's a heavy term, please. There are so many other strong terms. I didn't interrupt earlier. BUCCARELLA (M5S). The term rape also refers to rights, and not only to women! That's what we're talking about! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u55	I see. But then we move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u56	Please, Senator, finish. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, we only say one thing, and that is why we are here: slaves never! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u58	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked to have been able to reason more serenely on a measure which - it is before everyone's eyes - could have represented an opportunity to change step in the world of work. But, once again, this was not possible, because we have been called, for the umpteenth time, to a vote of confidence that does not allow to modify, to improve this text of the decree-law. I would like to remind you that just as this measure came out of the Council of Ministers, we could have voted on it, perhaps with some further modification and improvement. We would have liked to participate in a positive way and to help our country in a moment of such great need. The increase to eight of the extensions for fixed-term contracts; their causality; the duration of up to thirty-six months; the ceiling of 20% of forward contracts in a holding calculated from the total workforce; the exclusion from the ceiling of 20% for public and private research institutions; the possibility of carrying out a true training of the apprentice, the one on the holding (otherwise called on the job), which made the public only possible: all important points. To these we would have liked to add others: the de-taxation for unemployed, unemployed and young people; the extension of the facilities also for private research, so important for the development of the country; and the raising to 30% of the ceiling for fixed-term contracts. In short, we would have liked to contribute effectively to the improvement of the original Poletti decree. The pressures of the trade unions, which were strongly expressed in the Chamber's Working Committee, led instead to the disruption of the key points of the decree, and resulted in a useless and even harmful text: yes, just so, harmful. We have arrived at an articulate that not only worsens the text of the Poletti decree, but makes vain and uncertain the breath of trust that emerged at the time of the announcement of the decree. Perhaps there would have been the possibility to return to the original text, to affirm how there are two subjects indispensable to create new work in Italy today: the worker himself and the entrepreneur; a balanced law would have had to meet the needs of both and, if we had been allowed a serious discussion and a real deepening, perhaps we could have modified this decree-law in the best possible way. This possibility has been swept away by the haste, the fear of the Government for every change and the diktats of the CGIL. We only have to say loudly and convincingly no to your request for trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u59	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u62	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Choice Group will vote in favour of trust. On the detail of the provision refer to the intervention of Senator Dalla Zuanna and to what the rapporteur and the Government have said in their reply. However, I would like to highlight the link between the decree and the draft organic reform which provides for the simplified code and the introduction of the permanent employment contract with increasing protection, the connection between the decree today before our examination and the draft law delegation under discussion in the Commission which outlines the complete and organic reform of the labour market system, as is explained in the text approved by the Commission itself, where it is specified that the provisions brought by the emergency measure are intended to fit into the framework of a comprehensive reform aimed at building the economic and professional security of the people who work not through the plastering of the individual working relationships, but through an appropriate guarantee of the continuity of income and an investment on the retraining of persons who, for whatever reason, lose a job, aimed at the employment opportunities that are actually there. A security, therefore, no longer built on a cast, but on the effectiveness of income support, on the assistance provided to persons affected by passages between different places and jobs, inevitable, which already constitute and will increasingly constitute physiological and normal events in the life of each. In the immediate and temporary and urgent way, the decree in question aims to anticipate substantially the effects of this reform, immediately loosening constraints concerning the establishment of working relationships according to the new principles to which the order outlined in the draft law delegation will then be inspired. The decree lacks many things, but it aims to mark a watershed between two cultures of industrial relations, between two systems of protection of labour, and the interventions that have been carried out in recent days have witnessed the development of a common conviction between different political forces, between a wide range of political forces: therefore, no longer the defence of the worker from the labour market, but in the labour market. I want to resume a consideration made by Senator Dalla Zuanna in general discussion. Slavery has been mentioned, but it is not the decree that creates slavery: true slavery is staying at home, it is having no chance of working; the real slavery for an entrepreneur is that of not being able to assume because the costs are too high. These are the slavery that we must fight and that Civic Choice for Italy is committed to fighting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u65	MAURO Mario (PI). Madam President, the Per l'Italia Group will vote in favour because the first and last reason for any initiative of a popular political formation rooted in the principles of the social market economy is to find solutions useful to create jobs. And when we talk about work we need a great sense of responsibility, we need knowledge of reality and a real will for change. I am speaking of a sense of responsibility because, Madam President, as a member of the Commission, I could not help but consider the fact that the President of the Commission is currently a man who has lived under escort for twelve years; the rapporteur of this measure is a man who has lived under escort for more than ten years; the labour law experts of this country have lived largely under escort for years. And I wonder what the continuous question and the ideological violence behind it is worth considering the improvement of the labour market as a way of wanting to perpetrate slavery. This measure goes in the right direction, and the amendments approved by the Senate are a first step in promoting the creation of new jobs on the basis of fluidising, rather than flexible, rules. It is clear that it will take time for measures to take effect, but in order to reverse the course and ensure that young people find employment it is essential that employers on the one hand have effective rules and certain interpretations of the rules, and on the other hand do not have additional obligations compared to current legislation. The changes made by the Senate go in this direction, for at least six reasons. First. The new framework does not apply to renewals of time contracts, as they are not subject to limits. Second. The 20% limit of employees does not apply to time contracts concluded under research and innovation programmes. Third. The penalties for over-time contracts and non-training apprenticeships become pecuniary instead of being transformed into permanent contracts. Fourth. The constraint of a proportion of previous stabilized apprenticeship contracts applies only to companies above 50 employees, and therefore to a minority of the working population. Fifth. The seasonal apprenticeship is restored, while the Region has the obligation to communicate, within forty-five days, to the enterprise that initiates apprenticeship contracts not generic modalities but the specific schedule of the training activity that it organizes, also using the enterprise itself or the association to which it joins, when available. Sixth. Collective agreements can always establish more favourable rules for the employer. With these changes we have brought the text closer to its original version, with which the Government intended to increase the propensity to assume by removing the constraints that inhibit it, we have given an incentive to companies to return to competitive and we have achieved a balance, in a certain and incentive regulatory environment. We have abandoned, in a word, the idea that the freedom, dignity and safety of the worker are all the more protected, the more the working relationship is plastered by rules, assisted by lawyers, subject to the intervention of inspectors and judges. We've given concrete help.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u66	I ask you to speak on the order of business, Madam President: excuse me, but it is important, and this is not a criticism.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u67	Criticism is always welcome, Senator Airola, but we are in the process of explanations of vote. However, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u68	AIROLA (M5S). That is precisely why, Madam President: the Commissions are working at the moment, while in this House we are in the process of explanations of vote. I would have liked to have followed the debate both in the Commission and in this House, as this is the only area of democratic dialogue that we have, having the government put the question of trust. I therefore ask you, please, to be able to desecrate the Commissions, so that we can follow Parliament's work. That seems to me to be the least.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u69	Senator Airola, as you know, at the Conference of the Leaders, we unanimously decided to follow this programme in this House and all the members of the Commission also know that, so they should come here, but they clearly cannot. AIROLA (M5S). I realise that, Madam President, but in the Commission, justice is working and discussing things that should also be followed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is clear, Senator Airola, that the Presidency takes note of its statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u72	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, the path of the law we are about to adopt has been long and crooked, full of controversy and discussion. It could not have been otherwise, since unemployment and the absence of prospects for the youngsters represent the country's main emergency. This is a problem that is not addressed and won, if at the same time we do not give our economic and productive fabric the means to remain competitive in the European and world economy, with a more streamlined administration, efficient infrastructure and fiscal incentives. There are entire economic sectors for which regulations are too often incomplete, do not facilitate and do not allow recruitment, even of a temporary nature. These are those sectors that represent a significant share of GDP, which are often measured on the international market and which, in order to remain there, must guarantee high quality standards, such as tourism, the whole food supply chain and handicrafts, in order to promote Made in Italy in the world. These are areas where flexibility is inherent and where rules are needed to meet their needs if they are to continue to exist, operate and create jobs. Let us not forget that at this moment in Italy one in four young people has stopped studying and looking for a job: they are people who have lost all hope and who see their future as a great, immense question mark. Also for this, between a job and a job that could never be there, we must prefer the first. We must prefer this because the dignity of the person is based on work and not on the possibility of access to some form of social support or social shock absorber. We need to know that active labour policy must be normal and that passive policy must be exceptional. Our Group has presented an agenda to the measure to ask for the extension of the use of vouchers in agriculture to all categories, not only students and pensioners, but also for this temporary labour regulation tool to be used by all companies, regardless of their turnover. Unfortunately, this agenda, having put the question of trust in the government, cannot be dealt with, but we will resume it at the next opportunity. The measure that we are about to adopt certainly introduces positive elements, but it does not do everything that had to be done: in our opinion, for example, some elements of the Fornero law should have been more assaulted, the results of which are before everyone's eyes (just look at youth unemployment, reached 42%). On apprenticeships, we are very positive about the amendment introduced in the Commission which states that 20% of apprentices must be stabilized for companies with more than 50 employees and not as before, according to the House's text, with 30 employees. Just as it is the amendment I have promoted, and made by the Government, which allows the possibility of using the apprenticeship contract also for a fixed time for the carrying out of seasonal activities, where the Regions or the Autonomous Provinces of Trento of Bolzano, have defined a system of school-work alternation: the dual system of work-vocational school of public obligation. On this I would like to thank the Government, and especially the Undersecretary Bobba, for the attention shown, because in this way we eliminate that element of rigidity introduced by the Fornero law and that has helped not to make the apprenticeship take off. Because, given by hand, with the sole exception of the Province of Bolzano, apprenticeship is an unknown practice, almost unused, while in Germany it is one of the main gateways to the labour market. Unfortunately, in Italy it is not, because our legislation continues to be (and so is seen also by our entrepreneurs) a path of obstacles, like a mechanism of traps that can put entrepreneurs in trouble, who, now, before an employment, wonder if all this will not end up bringing them before the judge of the job. That is why we need clear, transparent and simple legislation. Legislation that takes into account the specific characteristics of the market in which the entrepreneur operates and the specific characteristics of each productive reality: for this reason, it would be important to increase the competences of local authorities on training and on the employment market. We know that a single measure cannot address and solve all the issues of such a complex matter. This measure has some positive things, and others have been improved compared to the original text. I am referring in particular to the possibility, for those companies that exceed the 20% ceiling for fixed-term contracts, of introducing a transitional period for companies. This is certainly a good thing, although it remains, in principle, an opposition to a mechanism of quotas and percentages which certainly does not help companies to assume. With the hope that there will soon be new initiatives that go in the direction here begun with this measure, a right direction, I announce the favorable vote of the Group for the Autonomouss and of the PSI to the measure, reaffirming at the same time the confidence of our Group to the Government. [[Applause from Senator Lanièce. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u75	Barani (GAL). Madam President, unlike my previous colleague, I already say that we will not give this confidence, and this on the basis of facts, of scientifically documented acts, comforted by reality, and not of ideological considerations (---We are in the majority and we must support this majority). Ladies and gentlemen, the same process experienced by the decree on which the Government put the question of trust raises many doubts. We are talking about a text fired by the Council of Ministers and then presented to the House, where are well known the controversy and neoplastic infiltrations of the CGIL on President Damiano, who wanted at all costs to change the provision, weakening it (it was already weak in itself), thus condemning it to certain death. Well, it was already said that that text, then equally approved with confidence, would be changed to the Senate, and the Senate is changed to another vote of confidence. We're in front of amateurs on the brink. I mean, a little consistency! It takes courage, Madam President. Unemployment is a scourge that is destroying our country, from the North to the South, especially the South, when this Government does not even know terminology. Businesses are forced to send home experienced collaborators, who can no longer pay; young graduates and qualified professionals find themselves without any career prospects. In hospitals there is no turn over; that terrible Fornero law, which made all Italians cry, has meant that in hospitals there has been no turnover for several years now (and there will be no turnover for five or six years). The young graduates at thirty-one years of age, after eleven years of training (six degree and five specialization), do not have the possibility to enter our hospitals, because there is the cap of those who had the possibility to retire, after forty years of service or with coefficients of 96 or 97, and instead now must remain up to forty-two years and six months of contributions or up to sixty-seven years of age. So we create youth unemployment and, at the same time, we no longer create that dynamism so that we can bring in young people who, of course, together with their teachers and teachers, can raise their cultural level. This is also the original damage and sin of the modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution wanted by this Catholic left. So, Madam President, we must hurry, because young people are paying for the consequences of this crisis, victims not only of the lack of work, but also of the total closure of an old system, which needs to be changed. We must hurry, given the high level of unemployment, by 13% (42.7 young people). The decree-law before this House was supposed to be an opportunity to change, an injection of confidence for entrepreneurs and workers, but the pressure of trade unions and a certain left pushed towards a shy and unfinished text: it could not be improved. The majority and this President-in-Office of the Council lack capacity and courage, such as those he had - I would like to remember with pride and with a high head - Craxi on 14 February 1984 with a decree of his Government that cut four percentage points of the escalator on the basis of an agreement of the business associations with CISL and UIL, decree that then passed the examination of 9 and 10 June 1985, when the referendum repealing this norm was held, promoted by the CGIL and the Communist Party of Enrico Berlinguer. There was a 54.3 percent no to the repeal, because the Italian people had understood. This is now documented: everyone says that, if there had not been that cut and that decree of Valentine's Day, Italy would have gone in default. Well, there was a President-in-Office of the Council there who had the numbers, to put it mildly. He had much more than the numbers, which this Government - of course, just see it - doesn't have: the attributes are missing completely. It is therefore important to bet on medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises, eliminating additional burdens and obligations on them and facilitating greater flexibility in working relationships. The law you are about to approve not only worsens the original text of the Poletti decree... As for this Minister, then, it is like having appointed Dracula president of VIS. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's old! Barani (GAL). Yeah, it's old, but it's always up to date. Repetita iuvant, the Latins said. I said that the law you are about to approve not only worsens the original text of the Poletti decree, but also renders the confidence expressed at the time of the announcement of the decree. Announcements and slogans are the daily bread of this Government, but there are still no concrete facts useful for the country. The introduction of an administrative penalty for companies that pass the 20% ceiling of fixed-term contracts is about to be approved: but here beaks and beatings! We have entrepreneurs who want to hire and we multiply them if they do, because they don't have to pass that roof, because they have to leave the young people at home, in the middle of the road! [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Centinario]] Madam President, in the Justice Commission, where I had to leave, a debate on drugs is taking place. We let young people get drugged because we don't give them jobs, because we want to tarass any entrepreneur who wants to give them jobs because he can't cross the threshold. What a shame! Besides, I get it. A President-in-Office of the Council who has never worked, what does he know about work? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In the field of apprenticeship, the employer's right to use public training was removed, as provided for in the original text. But, Madam President, what is the entrepreneur who hires a young man from our schools led by unprepared left-wing professors who are unable to educate students who, while holding a diploma, are unable to enter a company and be immediately productive? [[Senator Catalfo's comments.]] It is certain that the private individual must do the training: the public is not able to train anyone, because our school is not able to form being old, outdated and devoid of the skills to do so. There is therefore a risk of fewer apprentices and less skilled. The public is not always better than the private. In fact, it's almost always worse, and so is health care. I remember that unemployment in 2011 was 8.8 percent - numbers are not philosophy - and today it reached almost 13 percent thanks to the interventions promoted (see, for example, the Fornero law and the cancellation of the Biagi law) by the three successive presidential nomination governments. In short, in 2011 it was much better than now, despite the 600 spread has reached 150. This means that the spread had nothing to do with development: it was only the economic invasion by Germany that, with the help of local Catholics, infiltrated this German economic tumor, at an obviously international level. In order to create work, therefore, structural manoeuvres are needed, such as those mentioned earlier by Bettino Craxi, such as the introduction of a rule exempting employers from the payment of social security contributions for five years who employ long-term unemployed and unemployed workers, as proposed by President Berlusconi. In conclusion, a genuine reform of work requires more courage. We must have the courage to take the appropriate measures, as the great European and Anglo-Saxon countries have done, and as Italy did in the 1980s, where mobility is not a taboo and where the protections are higher wages and salaries, with a less leech tax. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, I invite you to conclude. Barani (GAL). I shall conclude, Madam President. But is it ever possible to have such pathological unemployment rates and pay 40-50 million per year of cash integration? Is it possible to keep workers in cash for ten or twenty years? That's not possible. It takes flexibility. The workers must be re-inserted and mobilized in a different way. That is how structural reforms are done. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u78	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss the difficulties that the world of work is encountering in our country. Even today, as usual, your reforms, your recipes to cure this evil of society, will be useless. Your reform will create more unemployment and will not increase jobs, it will not solve the problems of those who have lost their jobs, young people will continue to seek, while older workers, sixty-five-sixty-seven years old (and I am sure that your goal is 70 years old), will continue to go to the factory, assembly lines and roofs to change a tile, antenna or gutters! Those who work with their hands and not with a jacket and tie like you, those who do night shifts or bow in the fields for the rest of their lives, can no longer work for 60 years! The real cancer of the world of work, especially in these moments of crisis, is that law that you have given birth, that you have supported and that you have voted, the law of Mrs. Crocodile tear, better known as Fornero law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Government! Where's the government? Bisinella (LN-Aut). Government! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't scream like that and don't interrupt! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Where's the government representative? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you see where he is? Can you see you're listening, Senator? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No. Where is he? He's gotta be there! (Senator Candiani points to the empty government counter.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay, but it's there. Anyway, please don't interrupt like this, Senator Candiani. Please, Senator Munerato. MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). That infamous law damages the whole world of work, starting with the youngest, who will not find work (and the data show it, with a youth unemployment record in Europe), up to the older workers, who will have to go to work accompanied by the caregiver to reach the great goal of a hunger pension after a life of contributions paid. To this, there is also a great damage to companies, forced to maintain an old, less productive and much more expensive staff. I am convinced that you too are not so obtuse that you do not understand that the Fornero law must be abolished as soon as possible, but your goal is to make ends meet. Much later, citizens' rights come and then the right to dignity and work comes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Everyone knows that the European Commission - and the North League does not say so - in 2009 certified that our social security system was among the most virtuous on the continent. But you, from the Professors' Government to the Blah blah blah government, all united to take out another 9 billion to the workers to pay the contributions that you have never paid for the public workers. You cashed in, you saved an institution, the INPDAP, which was failing because the state wasn't paying, and you loaded everything on the INPS and so, as always, on the shoulders of those who work. In addition to that, you have created a new category of workers, which you have baptized under the name of exodati, but which would be more just to call under the name of "victims of bad labor policy"! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] But what's worse is that you're still on this road. With the 80 euro tip promised by President Renzi, do you think you have satisfied or rather bought the bad mood that there is among those who work? I invite you, Mr. Renzi, to take a walk around. I would like to introduce my former colleagues, those women and men who worked alongside me day and night, from Christmas to Easter, to a factory with continuous cycle shifts: Giovanni e Rita, class 1953; Roberto, class 1956; Adriano, class 1959; Gabriella, Giorgio and Daniela, class 1960. These are not random names, they are the names of my colleagues who have lost their jobs, the integration fund is over and there are no job prospects because they are too old. Their children are also unemployed. Maybe someone's lucky with the husband who still has the job, but someone else is losing the house after paying the mortgage for 25 years. Come, Mr. Renzi, to talk to these people, come and touch the reality of many families with your hands and you will hear with your ears that the world of workers can no longer chat and electoral ads. This pseudo-reform, which you called jobs act, which actually looks more like the name of a video game, makes us well understand that you are playing with the future of workers and what worries me most is the future of our young people. Young people, who with the sacrifices of their families have reached a degree, are forced to go abroad to earn a living, thus interrupting their relations and values with their families. Forced to leave their parents just when a father or mother needs their children. Young people left without prospects and future! Young people who cannot make a family, your banker friends will never give them a loan or mortgage because they are unemployed! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Others, artisans and small entrepreneurs in crisis (my Veneto is the example of this), take their lives because they are stifled by taxes and debts, but often they boast credits from this State. There is no money for our fellow citizens in difficulty, fathers of families who set themselves on fire because they lost their jobs and were evicted, people who sleep in the car because they lost everything, while for immigrants who come to thousands every day on our shores you find the money to lodge them in four-star hotels, provided with money for mobile phones and cigarettes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is what it is worth to you who has worked and always contributed to this country. Reducing taxes with this policy is pure utopia, indeed, you will be forced to increase them to provide services, health care, food and accommodation to those who land on our coasts every day, while many of our fellow citizens have stopped caring because they can't even pay the ticket money. And you, with your jobs act and those 80 euros until the end of the year, do you think you've solved the problem? But who do you think you're kidding, saying that with 80 euros you spend fifteen days shopping? Well come, that 80 euros, because for those who do not arrive at the end of the month it may seem like a manna from heaven, but the problem remains! It stays mainly because by now we know well how you are used to it! We are ready to bet, or rather, to show that from here to the end of the year every 80 euro of begging will correspond 160 of withdrawal, because you are used to it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] All you care about is cashing out to prove that you're good, to show that you did homework when you go to Europe to your mistress chancellor! The Italians united, from North to South, the honest ones, those who have always worked, are in agony and don't want to know more about who offers him a glass of water to steal his bottle. You are a world apart, you are part of a world in which you have never worked with your hands one day and that is why you may find it difficult to understand. I propose a 15-day internship for members of this Government in some factory or farm or construction company [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am sure that after this experience of real working life you will all come with me, along with the other workers in the municipalities to sign for the proposed referendum of the North League to repeal the Fornero law, the worst law ever done in the world of work; but the power and will of the people will repeal it with a referendum that will be a plebiscite. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The North League, as you understand, will vote against this farce measure and therefore against trust, because this government does not deserve trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u81	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the attitude of this Government, with yet another confidence, the indifference of this majority and the virtual oppositions, which are not present, are the emblem of what the workers will have to suffer and make clear what this Government thinks - I am sorry, Madam President - of democracy. Let's make a brief reminder of everything that happened in this country that led to disaster. Berlusconi Government, Labour Minister Sacconi: unemployment rising to 3%, anti-worker reforms, weakening of the single text on job security, discrimination in workplaces unprecedented, derogations from contracts and laws with the introduction of Article 8. In short, social cohesion at the very least, while the President of the Council, I remind everyone, said that the pizzerias and restaurants were full and that the crisis was not in fact there. I avoid saying what the PD thought of then Minister Sacconi, but I would like to remind you that from 2011 to today the former Minister Sacconi is part of the majority, together with the PD; indeed, today he is President of the Commission work, elected thanks to the votes of the majority party, that is the PD. For reformists everything is possible and the opposite of everything. Let's move on to the Monti government. Everyone said crocodile tears; the occupation still drops, unemployment rises; allies the same reformists as ever. We recall the deletion, practically, of Article 18: there were, I remember well, our customs full, and expected to open the borders because there were entrepreneurs ready to come and invest in Italy. Result: youth unemployment out of control, general unemployment out of control, pension reform a disaster and right of criticism of the virtually zero disaster (I remember that those who allowed themselves to criticize that reform risked cutting their wings). Pure democracy! For pure human solidarity, and only for that, I do not speak of the Led Government. For about three months we have instead the Renzi Government, with Poletti as Minister of Labour. The recipe is always the same, the reformists are always the same, unemployment rises. In short, wing cutters, social destroyers and virtual professors present the jobs act. But do precarious contracts apply only to workers? Because these gentlemen have been in these rooms for decades. But let's see how innovative they are: social shock absorbers that from social parachutes become a kind of private insurance, and will not be available to all workers, and will not be equal for all workers; drama of exodates still today without answers; contracts that can reach thirty-six months without causality (so white paper to the master), with five extensions and endless renewals. I would point out that contracts could last thirty-six months, but it is not said: the contract of a worker may not be renewed at any time, because everything depends only and exclusively on the employer, who with this reform you make again master and no longer employer. What did you think you were doing? You have thought that the measure will be greatly improved: after you have literally ripped away the democracy of the workplace, you have thought that, if a worker suffers a wrong, he will not even be able to resort to justice anymore. Once again, democracy in the pure state! I would like to invite - but I know that it is impossible - to understand how we can live with 1,200 euros a month, because in order to do all this we need the classic and very old war between the poor. To do this, in fact, you have to make the famous war among the poor, of which you are masters: divide and rule. Therefore, the unemployed must be against the Cassaintegrati, the last against the penultimate (in the end they will all be last), the precarious against the guaranteed who, be careful, have the fault of earning 1,200 euros per month, with dependent children, and therefore they must feel guilty of working at 1,200 euros per month, because this is the guarantee they have. I think that an examination of conscience is right in this House, but I know that it is very difficult to do. You are always talking about democracy, but now it is very clear to me that you are talking about your democracy, of course, because following the judgments of the various Italian courts and the ILO's call to your Government for the discrimination suffered by FIOM workers in the FIAT, you have not spent a single word. Of course, there are democracies, rights and dignity of the B series and democracies and rights of the A series (i.e. yours). Basically, after thinking of deleting minorities in Parliament's classrooms, you have also thought very carefully, outside Parliament, to delete those who have representation, because I have not heard you say a single word about these things that have happened. I have a duty to inform you about this too (you are not very innovative), because in research I found a 1927 Work Charter, and I do not want to remind the House what that time was, because you are much better at it than I am. I want to tell you that even then, as now, they thought that the union was free, but that only the controlled unions had the right of representation. Even then, as now, with the excuse of the crisis - I remind you that those years were followed by a devastating crisis - production was supreme. The workers had no right. Only production was supreme: practically what you say today, with other more good words, but the meaning is always the same. I want to remind my colleagues in the PD that in this decree, in which you have included a little bit of everything, there is a concept that, if I remember correctly, was supported by the Berlusconi Government: I quit and then I pay. One day I would like to understand what has changed since then. Finally, I find it really unbearable to hear you say that Europe is asking us to do this; Europe is not asking us to do this, stop with these manfriends! This is not what Europe is asking of us; the European directives run on a different track. It is true that productivity is needed, it is true that our country is still, children know it too: but it is still because it has stopped investing in research, innovation and technology for decades. And you, with your policy, have decided to compete exclusively on the labour force, that is on the skin of our workers, which will not produce any employment, from this point of view. I have spoken with many entrepreneurs, the real ones, the small and medium-sized ones, and I tell you that they have never asked for this kind of policy: they have asked for much more, but you do everything you can to ensure that, not the entrepreneurs, but the entrepreneurs take everything. Our country - I remember - needs a real industrial plan, a worthy industrial plan of work: a real job that facilitates public and private investments, in which research and innovation prevail, which reformists in recent years have totally abandoned. Of jobs act - as you call it - the story is full. Always doing research, I found one also in 1807: it belonged to a certain Carlo Maurizio Talleyrand, reigning prince, Duke of Benevento, etc., etc. (a bit like you, \'eccetera, etc.) It is possible everything and the fault is always of others. You have been in these rooms for twenty years, but the fault of the disaster of the country is of the others, and the others do not know what they are). This is exactly what this concept is about: following the abuse of time that bricklayers, carpenters and janitors especially do, it is decided to increase working hours from ten to twelve hours and there is no breakfast and everything else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Madam President. I'm about to finish. The SEL Group will never vote on a social massacre decree. He'll never vote for it. Work for us is rights and duties, a perfect balance, in a worthy democracy. The rest, as always, are bar talk, and only those who do not know the work can think and believe that the maximum flexibility goes together with the maximum of the safety of the work: I would almost laugh, if it were not a tragedy. We will therefore never vote for this social massacre. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u82	I would like to greet the students and students of the Scuola Medio Statale (School) Lavinia Fontana (Fontana) in Bologna. Welcome, the girls, boys and professors. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u84	You have the right to do so. (The Senators of the Misto-SEL Group display some signs). Please remove those signs. I invite the quaestor senators to I'll take care of it. Senator De Petris, I would like to remind you of the decision of the Presidency Council, so you also know what articles we must strictly respect. Senator De Petris, I remind you. (Senator Commissioner De Poli, along with some parliamentary assistants, shall carry out the order of the Presidency.) Please, Senator Sacconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u85	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this vote of confidence actually concludes the troubled process of a decree-law that could have been adopted more quickly if the majority had immediately been fully in line with its original content. We, as you know, immediately agreed with them, to the extent that they did not table amendments when they were first examined in the House of Deputies. In fact, we shared the urgency and the need for measures aimed at freeing up two basic types of contract for inclusion in the labour market: freeing them from the rigidities that had inhibited their employment. We have long entered the epoch of the immanent uncertainty generated by the expectation of continuous changes, often unexpected and unpredictable, not all necessarily negative. Unfortunately, however, we are still widely regulated by norms conceived in the era of certainties given by seemingly obvious and infinite development. To this atavistic regulation, only partially mitigated by the Biagi law, the Fornero law was added in extraordinary counter-trend, the result of a construction all theoretical and therefore far from the requirements posed by the great crisis. Instead, we must ask ourselves what it means to undertake and do work at this time, to what extent the rule can absorb at least some of the legitimate fears and encourage private initiative, especially when it wants to lead to more employment. The fundamental choice we have to make is to assess whether the protection of the working citizen or who aspires to work is effectively achieved through a sum of provisions and sanctions conceived under the assumption of the bad employer; whether it makes sense in particular to assume pathologies in the employers' behaviors even extreme in order to build rules on them that to educate one hold back one hundred thousand. All the amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies' working committee with our unequivocal vote against were driven by the desire to prevent, threaten, sanction the possible negative action, with the result of inhibiting the much more likely positive action. All the amendments subsequently adopted by the Senate's working committee, on the basis of our decisive initiative and the good work of the rapporteur, Mr Ichino, were, on the contrary, oriented towards reducing those constraints in order to free up the ability to do work. Time contracts have thus become simpler and more certain because they are deprived of the obligation of motivation, which is indefinable between the same employer and the same worker through the renewals, which are likely to have five extensions over the three years, which can be sanctioned when in excess of a single financial penalty. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u86	I apologize, Senator Sacconi, but I would call the senators to the Chamber to lower their voices, to respect and to listen to those who speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u87	SACCONI (NCD). Let us remember that this discipline is added to the previous context, to the particular rules such as those in agriculture, to the more flexible collective agreements such as those for tourism and that the negotiation of each level will always allow for better mutual adaptation between the parties. In this context, therefore, we also read the 20% constraint on the entire company staff for forward contracts, already present in all collective agreements before being included in the law, which remains exempted and exemptable from the various negotiating provisions. An emblematic case, and an expression of a fortunately growing reality, is that of the work carried out in the framework of research and innovation programmes: at last he is recognized the possibility of being organized in forward contracts beyond the percentage limits and according to a duration related to the time of the research. Apprenticeship contracts become more convenient when they refer to young people who want to obtain a diploma or a qualification; again possible in the dimension of seasonal work, encouraging with it that dual system school-work that has worked so much in Germany; more free, because the constraint of the previous stabilizations applies only to that third of workers who are employed in the companies above 50 employees; more certain in the relationship with the regions, who must give the schedule of courses for basic training in the first 45 days, recognizing in subsidiarity the training capacity of the enterprise. I am afraid it is still too little to make them affordable compared to traineeships and time contracts, even if the interpretation, in accordance with the rapporteur's and the Government's view, that insufficient training turns it into a time contract and not an indefinite one, removes a significant deterrent. Everything is good, therefore, what ends well, even if the discussions that accompanied this decree must teach us the need for greater loyalty in the relations of majority, also in the Chamber of Deputies, where the relationships of force, for an election prize out of proportion, are different from those of the Senate. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] The lesson is now useful for the examination of the draft law delegation at work which, as far as we are concerned, will have to be approved shortly. We would like to achieve, through it, an even more complete balance between simple, certain and flexible rules, on the one hand, and instruments for the efficient protection of the unemployed, on the other hand, without forgetting that irreplaceable role of negotiation between the parties that works especially when the entrepreneur and the worker recognize and respect each other in the concrete business dimension, so different from that distant national dimension in which complicated bureaucratic or ideological constructions are produced, not by chance. Italy is expected, by supranational observers, to test the work, because everyone knows how much it has conditioned, in the past seven decades, the political and social dynamics. If we now realize a new regulatory and instrumental system in a way shared between the opposing cultures that for a long time have clashed we will give a signal, not only to the economic recovery, but also to the more general cohesion of the nation. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u90	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, wild flexibility, anthem to precariousness, condemnation to death of the Italian economy: this is what you have produced and will produce to Italy and the citizens of our country. A shameful decree. You have produced a game in an empty football field; a decree that has the foresight of an old mole, as old as your thought, unable to act wisely, understanding the changes of time. A text produced by a Minister - Minister Poletti - who is advisor to the Foundation "Object Work" related to one of the largest administration agencies in Italy. There is a clear and obvious conflict of interest, and that is why we have tabled a motion of no confidence. The rapporteur, Senator Ichino, writes in his report to follow the flexsecurity model, which is the subject of the European Union's recommendations: a model that involves the combination of flexibility and professional and economic security. This is false: as false as what you say to the press, trying to embarrass the Italians. Senator, I am looking like a needle in a haystack in the decree, for more than a month, for the income support of citizens and, as far as you look night and day, I can't find it: I can't find it because it's not there. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] I remind all of you senators, and of this Government that wants to shut its mouth to oppositions (as happened in Tolstoy with Ivan the idiot, reading that I recommend you all to read) that in Italy flexsecurity has never been - I repeat: never - applied. (Follows CATALFO) Out of respect for the intelligence of Italian citizens who are sick and tired of being mocked by the so-called experts of the global economy, remove the word security from your mouths. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] I call on the Government, the Minister and the majority to be consistent and to call what they propose with their own name: precariousness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Say that everything will be settled by proxy law. Do not offend the intelligence of the citizens yet, because we all know that it will be years before it can be implemented. But let's get to the point, let's get to the point and try to understand. [[Brusio]] Mr Calderoli, just a moment: I understand that the House was empty until a few minutes ago and that we are going to vote on confidence and I also understand that Members, as well as the Presidents of the Commissions, who convened the Commissions during the sitting, are not interested in the rights of workers, their problems and those of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I understand that there is no interest in workers here (everyone does what he wants, and then responds to whom he must), but I demand that there be silence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Bonfrisco]] Like when you talk! So, let's get into the merit of the decree and try to understand what will bring good this "not decree" to the Italian economy and families. You say the economy and companies will recover. Entrepreneurs listen to what you say and believe you: they believe that, thanks to this further flexibility of work, they will breathe a sigh of relief, they will be able to hire more people, increase productivity and thus survive the crisis. Entrepreneurs, we must give you bad news: it will not be so. I'll explain why. The Government-Talpa, which proposes precariousness as the only element of salvation of the economy, has forgotten to analyze a couple of things, just two or three. The framework that it proposes is to allow companies to use workers for short periods of time, removing constraints on fixed-term employment. In doing so, in his sick macroeconomic thinking, he believes to increase productivity, and therefore the possibility for companies to grow and expand. In short, you want to import the Chinese model: low wages, no protection, maximum productivity! But, Senators of the majority, you haven't dealt with the host. To whom will these wonderful companies, according to your analysis, rich in productivity, sell their products? Perhaps to those same citizens who have been deprived of the possibility of a constant income? Which banks will grant loans or loans to a precarious person? And if so, to whom will those same entrepreneurs sell a house, a furniture, a car, a television, a computer, and so on? Also, do you really think that the poor precarious person will spend all his hard earned income in the three, four or six months of work? Or maybe he'll save money so he can survive in the months of lean work? So, if you save, it means that you will spend only on basic necessities and essentials. So, if you don't spend, who should you sell companies to, gentlemen? If the economic curve you are following is that proposed in the Budget Commission last month by Commissioner Cottarelli, Commissioner who the Italians pay hundreds of thousands of euros, according to which lower income corresponds to higher consumption then, Italians, we are fried because this curve is from the Middle Ages! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] The flexibility of the work proposed in the Decree-Law, intended as an adjustment and adaptation of the work to the changes in the production offer, on the one hand will bring a momentary allocation - I repeat, momentary - of the work, on the other will not lead to greater productivity. And I'm not saying that, but great labor economists. Moreover, gentlemen (I also remind the Commissioner), less protection and less income, especially in the context of a global economy, corresponds to a decrease in domestic consumption, namely the failure of small and medium-sized enterprises which, in most cases, turn to the internal market and which are Italian excellence. The moment we are living requires us to observe the internal and global market and to look at Italy in this context, in order to design a forward-looking industrial plan (not as a mole): a plan based on the protection of the excellences of our country, incentives to quality companies, the increase of new technologies and research and on productivity linked to all this and the continuous training of workers and citizens. Flexibility can be seen, therefore, only in this context, if one wants to save the country from financial and economic collapse. What our country would need to apply is a system of technological and productive flexsecurity, that is to adapt the work and the enterprises to adapt to technological changes through investments, process and product innovation and through processes of continuous training and training of the workers. All this, combined with the safeguarding of the excellence of Italian entrepreneurship and that system of income support that the 5 Star Movement has proposed since the beginning of this XVII-Talp Legislature [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : the income of citizenship, gentlemen. I hope that I will be given a little more time, since I had to interrupt my speech because of the buzz in this House. [[Comments by Senator Micheloni.]] An income linked to the concept of flexsecurity to which I have just mentioned; an active measure (as opposed to social shock absorbers), linked to the redevelopment of the citizen and the employment of the same, to the economic development of the Country and the possibility for the enterprises to renew themselves. So, I'm telling Senator Ichino, don't pretend you don't understand. I know you're smart enough to understand what the 5 Star Movement Group is proposing. What I have just described allows us to implement a virtuous system that would lift up our economy, today crushed by the rock of the crisis. I would remind you that the chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mr Pervenche Berís, said that in order to get out of the crisis, we must think of greater investment in social affairs and greater economic investment. What does the government do? He's taking ten steps back, precarious. Gentlemen, in no country in Europe is there a situation like the Italian one. Citizenship income exists in all European countries, except Greece and Italy. In Denmark, a country mentioned by some of our colleagues, which is at the forefront, there has been a country since 1980 [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement believes that in order to get out of the crisis we must immediately implement income support measures, restore workers' protections, make technological and productive investments, lower the tax wedge and safeguard excellence. To conclude, to this 'Government-Talpa', deaf, who resorts to a decree of urgency, raises the question of trust and eliminates democracy in Italy we say no: no also to this decree, which wants to kill the Italian economy; no because you want to transform us and you are transforming us into modern slaves. We will do what is possible and impossible: democracy and rights must be guaranteed, so we will not move from here today, and you will have to take us away by force. Slaves never! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Numerous Senators of the M5S Group exhibit T-shirts bearing the inscription "Slaves never" they handcuff each other, handcuffing themselves and lifting their arms; then, they make the sign of victory. Some of the Senators of the same Group take back their colleagues with mobile phones and]] tablets).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u91	Colleagues, strippers in the Senate are not allowed and, when there are certain physicists, they are also not recommended [[Applause from the PD Group]] : so either the Senators of the 5 Star Movement dress up or I will have to call Senator Buccarella to order, which is the Parent Company. Being unable to ask our Senators Quaestors to have their colleagues in the 5 Star Movement remove those T-shirts, because the show would obviously get worse, or they will close their jackets and shirts or I will have to suspend the session. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). But do it, President! [[Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group launch fake notes bearing the words: "80 fiorenzi" (blossoms): "80 fiorenzi" (blossoms).]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is The same applies to colleagues in the League: Senator Council and Senator Crosio, I call you to order. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, now I suspend the session, after which, after having restored a minimum of decorum, everyone is called to be able to legitimately represent his own thought. The circus is not allowed. FACTORS (M5S). But this is the circus! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call for the immediate removal of all the cameras and all the public in the forums, because this is what the Rules of Procedure are about. I would remind my fellow Members that, in open session, there will be calls and disciplinary measures, while, in case of suspension of the work of this House, far more severe sanctions can be taken by the Presidency. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.17 p.m.) Let's resume our work. (Some Senators of the 5 Star Movement are still handcuffed to each other and continue to wear T-shirts with the inscription: "Never Slaves"). For the last time, I call to order colleagues who do not have clothing in accordance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, who maintain behaviour which is not accepted by our Rules of Procedure and who use photographic and photographic means. Otherwise, all subjects, of which I have taken diligent note, either come out of the Chamber spontaneously or will be accompanied by our fellow Quaestors at the door. I hope that there will be a reconsideration of extreme solutions, but the Presidency will continue its work. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, who is going out and who is left is the Presidency! Since it is my duty to have the meetings concluded with a positive outcome of our work, I hope that everyone will allow me to do so. Senator Buccarella, I ask you what you intend to do with your Group's behavior and if you have the power to bring the members of your Group back to the correct means of manifestation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u92	Mr President, this demonstration is correct because it is peaceful. If someone's hurt, maybe you can tell them. It's a peaceful demonstration. [[Protests from PD and NCD groups.]] If you want to listen to me, fine, or else I'll go to the presidency alone. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). Shame! Mr Fornaro (PD). Get out! BUCCARELLA (M5S). As I said, this demonstration is happily communicative, from our point of view, based on our political action to protect those who today we consider the weakest, that is, the Italian citizen, who will have to deal with the employment contracts provided for by this decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having said that, by virtue of Article 67 of the Constitution, the absence of the bond of mandate and the freedom of every senator and his power, which is more than one power, to represent the entire nation (for once, this speech which you hypocritically address to us I do so), I respond in this way, Mr President: we have done this action, and now each of us is responsible. We are for institutions, for this country, for businesses and for workers. You can scream all you want! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u93	Senator Buccarella, I was, historically, one of the senators who was passionate about demonstrations, including in Parliament, and I believe them to be legitimate. I would remind you, however, that this cannot mean that a constitutional body cannot act. You did the demonstration: very well. I have referred to you because it contrasts, in some respects, with the Rules of Procedure. If the demonstration stops at this point, it's okay. If your behaviour leads to the impossibility of proceeding in our work, I am sorry, but this has nothing to do with the mandate: it has to do with the rest of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u94	We are fully aware of this, Mr President, and we also know the instruments that the Presidency has at its disposal to guarantee the sacrosanct right to exercise its functions, guaranteed to all of us, to us first. And let us remember how many times the Rules of Procedure are trampled on, very often even to the detriment of the Group I represent. I would ask you for a 20-minute suspension, Mr President, in order to agree with my Group. CHORO OF YOURS FROM THE RIGHT AND ONE-HOUSE BANKS. No! BUCCARELLA (M5S). As the request does not seem to find the support of most of the House, I reduce the request for suspension to 19 minutes, so that I can speak with my colleagues and decide whether and how to stop the action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u95	First of all, I would ask Senators Quaestors to turn away anyone who does not behave properly in our Rules of Procedure, starting with the Commissioner who has now shown a shirt identical to that of his colleagues. Noting up to now five or six behaviors that are appropriate to the House's decorum and all the others that are not appropriate, either they adapt or the senators concerned will be removed, without having to be named nominally, because they are absolutely obvious. If anyone thinks he can be in this Chamber handcuffed during the sitting, I cannot allow that: I can only turn them away. I can arrange for the arrest at the end of the session. So, you see if we're gonna get to this level. So, let's go. In order! I have to say, someone turned it around. Senator Ciampolillo is fine. (Senator Crimi shows that he wears his jacket and tie.) Senator Crimes, look that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for you to be chained to Senator Martelli (or otherwise, I don't know). Some of them are imprisoned, as are Senator Puglia and her colleague, Senator Fattori. [[Senator Airola's protests.]] Look, even if you are handcuffed, you can also be carried out in a column; it is not that I have an opposition. (Some Senators of the M5S Group show that they do not have the keys to remove the handcuffs.) Ah, are they attacked? Haven't you ever heard of bolt cutters? I would ask Parliament's assistants to recover the means to free colleagues who are carelessly... Mr Fornaro (PD). President, the cameras! [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I'm gonna suspend the session again, and I'm gonna go find the blacksmith. Anyway, I assure you that you are no longer there at the recovery. The sitting is suspended (and therefore the stands must be released). (The sitting was suspended at 3.23 p.m. and resumed at 3.25 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator Giovanardi, please. Senator Cioffi, you've been good so far. You don't ruin everything in the end. Since the keys have been found, we recover the proper tranquility. D'ANNA (GAL). You can cut off your arms! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please. I ask everyone to take their place again. Colleagues, I am convinced that some actions can also be determined by the desire to start the electoral campaign first. BUCCARELLA (M5S). No! We would have done that a year ago. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I believe that it is the duty of all the senators to take part in the work of this House. BUCCARELLA (M5S). This is an election campaign! [[Senator Russo's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, manifestation is one thing, but that's something else. Take up your seats and continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u98	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are here for the final vote on a decree that was called part of the jobs act, but that you have transformed into the CGIL act, in the wake of a somewhat veterosindical approach, which, however, much likes that part of the left: that part of the left and the union that today sees the Minister of Labour present at his congress, in Rimini, but that does not see the Minister of Labour present in the Parliament that, with confidence, today dismisses a decree written in a different way, but arrived here completely upset. It is that part of the left and union that never intends to take note of its almost total historical and political failure. Come on, Barozzino, we can't all live under the work of the state. We need so much private work in order to hold this state, in which they have been excellent witnesses. [[Comments of Senator De Petris]] Talented men and women, to the point of bringing this country among the greatest economic powers. It is that approach that we contest that has upset the text originally presented by the Government, on which instead my Group, Forza Italia, had given its support: that convinced and conscious adherence to an important change, to the signal of an important change; that duty-bound openness towards the idea that work and growth are not done with decrees and, above all, they are not opposed to the subjects who are instead the only ones able to generate that work. It is no coincidence that the Government and the majority who support it have not managed to defend this text from the bitter controversy that arose during the examination in the House, and that they have led the other branch of Parliament to dismiss a text that is not acceptable, even from important areas of the majority, made up of usual prohibitions, obligations, obstacles and suspicions towards the only person able to create work, that is, the enterprise, which employs people, citizens, men and women in the production processes. But the mediation text which the Commission approved yesterday does not seem to be acceptable to us either. It is the result of small variations, more of shape than of substance, which are still far from the idea that, in order to have a real growth, a real economic employment boost, it is essential to improve productivity. We are too far from the idea of that productivity that we need like bread. Therefore, we need to move towards greater labour flexibility, without, of course, giving up the necessary safeguards for workers who, together with companies, are the two main players, the essential elements of a genuine reform of the labour market, of a true and solid economy. How is it possible to think that imposing sanctions on those who have to hire, on those who want to hire, is in itself a help to those who offer work? I ask you, President Sacconi, who has worked so hard on the texts of Tiziano Treu and Marco Biagi, who have opened up the labour market, like those of other countries, to its modernization; where by modernization - I would like to be clear in this - we mean the new register of rights, as well as the duties, which we must be able to update. The register of old rights, in fact, we have already, and we have also experienced that only the old rights do nothing but extrude those who want to grow in the world of work and are instead pushed away, because that labour market protects only the old rights, and not the new ones. It is the ancient debate between the outsiders and insiders of this labour market, which we call vezzamente in English, but which means, translated into the reality of our country, that there is an entire generation, almost like the '99 boys who will disappear because suffocated by the excessive defenses of the previous generation, that nothing has left to the future guarantees. To the rapporteur, Mr Ichino, whom I thank for his great work, I would like to remind you that that preamble which has satisfied us with it seems very little. We are at the most backward democratic Christian practice (let me say, rapporteur Ichino): if you agree on the preamble, who knows, maybe someone else will agree on the parallel convergences. And then, we think that instead of a step forward, he took a step back. A step back on that path which the European Union points out to us in flexsecurity, which someone cites without even knowing what it is made of: the one which has pursued Germany and which has struggled to pursue France. And if Germany has done so, and today it reaps the fruit of that great commitment, of that great sacrifice, why should we not be able to do so? You see, in reply to my fellow grills who have made some observations of a late-older-neo-corporativistic type, I think that the action of this Government is a bit like a mole, in the sense that it does not want to see and works underground; but I also think that the proposed action, or proposals that have been brought to our attention during the work of the Commission and in these days by the 5 Star Movement Group, are comparable to the work of the grillotalpa, which destroys land and crops so that no fruit can be born from that land, because poisoned by a sterile and useless controversy of strong opposition. We know that the Government's efforts with its latest proposals, such as research organisations, are heading in the right direction. It would have been really paradoxical to apply this limit to companies where, in their capacity as public or private research bodies, they could not have hired because, having to remain tied to such a unionized scheme, they would not have been able to complete even a research project. But I want us all to record that those research projects do not only live in the State, they do not live only in research institutions: there are many medium-sized and sometimes even small enterprises living in a lot of research and technological innovation on the process and on the product. We have denied them the possibility of having a workforce, a qualified and competent human capital to be used for their own research, for their own innovation. And when we ask our country to be competitive, how can we do so if we do not facilitate companies in that process of innovation, the only one able to take us out of the asphyxia of a market that cannot be only internal? To the global market our companies must be able to offer their knowledge, their talent, their know-how, their competence because this is our real added value. That is why it is not possible for us to share a measure that contains no incentive whatsoever. I find nothing in the Government's proposal that could even be the trigger of a recovery process. The disappointment of the enterprises will be great, President Calderoli, when they will understand, within a few months, that this measure will generate other litigation before the judges of the job, before the courts, and we all know, especially the enterprises, how the litigation ends before the judges of the job. The disappointment of companies will be enormous, and our opposition will be great. Let me conclude by recalling a single numerical figure, which I hope will help all of us to think better when we vote on confidence later. Following the Treu and Marco Biagi packages, the strong innovations wanted by a large part of the union, with the Berlusconi government unemployment in this country was 8%: After the Monti, Letta and Renzi Governments, today it is 13 percent. Let's all remember that. We shall vote against, and those who vote in favour will take on a great responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u101	Parent (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of confidence in the work decree. We are experiencing an employment crisis, especially a youth crisis, of historic dimensions, including at European level. In recent years we have seen a worldwide distribution of labour and labour. Of course, it is right to do research, as some of my colleagues mentioned, but it is very important to understand, in order to act, the epochal changes that we are experiencing. We have an absolute need for innovation and competitiveness of companies and economic systems in the countries. Italy is in this process and this world scenario, and in addition suffers structural ills typical of our country. The risk we run, the stronger one, is that we could have growth without work. Development and expansion policies are needed. If companies do not succeed, if the country systems are not competitive, the greatest need we have is to keep together the reasons of the enterprise with those of workers and workers. The decree we have discussed in the Senate in recent weeks is not the reform of work, as my colleagues also recalled yesterday, but it is proposed to intervene on this common ground. Some examples of the term contract: in the meantime, it is one of the most protected forms of flexible contract; it is provided for by European regulations (this decree does not violate European regulations); the possibility of extending a contract for workers and workers over the course of the three years gives the opportunity to confirm their experience in the term contract, as the Undersecretary very well recalled this morning. The permanent contract remains the foundation of our legal system, and overcoming the causality avoids very strong litigation, and we need this. We too talk to entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurs need legal certainty and simplification. Yesterday, Senator Ghedini, at the end of her speech, invited us to address this issue without ideology and with intellectual honesty. Well, we are talking about this: it means that if we do not strengthen forms of protection and forms of contract already protected we will have more VAT consignments and more undeclared work. It's not just intellectual honesty, it's calling things by their name. My Group has fought, in these difficult weeks (this can be said) for mediation within the majority, so that the other intervention on this decree, on the apprenticeship contract, could maintain the substance of the apprenticeship, which is training, the pivot of the contract. Of course, we have extended the possibility of making it available to employers, but in the beehive of the public offering. In fact, the decree also highlights one of the Italian problems: the lack by the regional public systems in providing adequate training to apprentices, because the wealth, the added value of the apprenticeship contract is precisely training, the certification of skills. In fact, we (this is the crucial issue of work today) on the one hand have to raise demand for work, on the other hand we have to strengthen skills, guidance and skills of workers. I would like to ask the opposition in this regard: what is the difference between insecurity and flexibility? I have heard so many words in this House on the issue of insecurity. The difference lies in supporting workers and workers with adequate work services, with income support for periods of non-work. Why do we all say we wait for the delegation? Because the government delegation will put together these two fundamental pillars, with the creation of an agency for the work and the reform of social shock absorbers. This is the battle we must all wage, trade unions and political forces. The Senators of the Five Star Movement are now not in the Chamber, they have made a show wearing a t-shirt, but what is needed by the workers and this country is to have a responsibility, a decorum in here, in the Houses of Parliament, to address the issues of work in a constructive way and to help workers and workers. When will the delegation arrive in Parliament (many proposals have also been made by them) what will be their constructive attitude to intercept these real problems? That's the challenge we're giving them. At the same time, to the other opposition forces, but also to the majority, I say that more flexibility in employment contracts cannot be done, precisely because there is a lack of these two fundamental pillars: labour services and income support for periods of non-employment. There can be no more flexibility than we have in labour legislation; there can be no continuous intervention on labour legislation, because this makes flexibility precarious. And if business doesn't make it, if there's no job application, what do a guy and a girl do during the periods between a term contract and a term contract? This is the question that politics has to ask; these are the new approaches that the trade union movement must also have with regard to the issue of work, because the world scenarios have changed, because the whole world has changed, and we must strengthen the workforce in this sense. This is what politics must do, this is what the labour force must do, and for these reasons we will vote for trust in the Government, because trust means that we have taken a path, a path, to really renew labour policies in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u103	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u104	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just moved to the Mixed Group, and I do not think that this is a genuine dissenting vote, because I believe that at least in the Mixed Group there is even more freedom to vote on the basis of conscience. So today I am in this situation for the first time. On recent occasions I voted against trust in the government, saying that it was not my problem if the government wanted to put trust, because I voted the bill. On this occasion, I believe that we can not fail to vote on this bill, because it has aspects that, in my opinion, will increase jobs, especially in companies under 50 employees, moreover one of the types of companies that are most in my region, Liguria, which I represent, also in the Mixed Group, with the component "Liguria Civica". Therefore, today I do not vote for the government's confidence and I absolutely do not approve of the decision to put trust, but I look at the content of the bill, which could certainly be amended even better, but it is certainly better to vote for it than not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u105	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u106	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 34 of 2014, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Ghedini Rita is drawn by lot.) Colleagues, I have a number of requests to vote in advance. All these requests result in the interruption of the call by the Secretary Senators, which further delays the whole procedure. I intend, therefore, to proceed in alphabetical order. [[Applause]] Colleagues, please prepare yourselves in advance at the Presidency to speed up voting procedures. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Saggese who, being Secretary, must then attend the operations of recording votes. (The Senator Secretary of Giorgi and, later, Senator Secretary Petraglia make the appeal). Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiu, Rossoli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Caridi, Casini, Cassano, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippi, Filippin, Fissori, Di Maggio, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Filippi, Fin, Fisorgi, Fin, Fisori, Fin, Fisori, Fin, Di Mindino, Di Mantino, Di Mantino, Di Mantino, Divino, Divino, Divino, D's, Firino, D'sori, Firino, Firino, D', D'sori, D', D'anni, D'anni, D'anni Lombardi Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, D's, D's Senators say no: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocca, Bocchini, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Siccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crosio D'Anna, De Crisofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, Gambaro, De Pino, De Siano, Donno Endrizzi Palanga, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Galumberti, Gambergiti, Gamberti, Gambaro, Gamero PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 34 of 2014, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 281 Senators voting 280 Majority 141 Favorable 158 Contrari 122]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 34.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u107	Before moving on to the speeches at the end of the session - I would have liked to do so from the benches of my Group but I am unable to do so - I ask the representatives of the Government a minimum of attention, because there are three different national newspapers reporting, quotes, statements from President Renzi, in which they attribute, with reference to an episode happened yesterday in the Commission to the Senate, these words: The hustle and bustle brought home an order of the day that is worth zero. I hope that this will be the result of the imagination of the three journalists. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] , but I believe that there is a need for a denial from the Premier, because the term "coupling" does not seem to be relevant to people who have been elected. Democracy can never be, whether it pleases or does not like it, defined as a cobblestone, or an instrument such as the agenda can be classified as having zero value, because it means attributing zero value to the institution itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u110	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, just one minute to point out to you and the House that a debate had opened on the Niscemi antennas, the famous MUOS, and there had been a commitment to bring this subject back to the Chamber as soon as possible. It's been almost a month and we still have no news. I would ask you, as President at this time of the Senate, to take responsibility for urging this matter to be brought to the House as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u111	We will report it to the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u114	BATTIST (Mixed). Mr President, with my speech I would like to ask the answer to Question No 300295 on Zaule's regasifier in Trieste. In this particular case, I would like to highlight the path taken by the EIA and VAS procedures in this work. In 2009, the Berlusconi Government gave the green light to this project. In April 2013, Minister Clini blocked the EIA procedure, with a six-month suspension. In February 2014, the draft decree of revocation, signed by Minister Orlando, was forwarded, on 13 February, to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities Bray. After the change of government, he returned to the Minister of the Environment Galletti. Having expressed an opinion in favour of this decree to revoke also the Attorney of the State, I hope to have a response from the Government (even if it has already given to the House one in which it retraces what I have just said), that puts the word end to this project. This would also do so that the regasifier of Zaule is excluded from the plan regulator of the port of Trieste and can be given a possibility to my city for an alternative development, increasing own ability in harbour within. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask once again, as I did at the sitting on 21 January 2014, the answer to Question No 300618 concerning the Trieste ironworks. I urge the Government to give an answer to the two questions I have tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u117	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I should like briefly to remind my fellow Members of an initiative which took place in Florence this Saturday. We, who are the guardians of the world's greatest artistic and historical heritage, should be concerned in advance with the preservation of cultural heritage, not only by implementing or planning interventions at the occurrence of events, but by laying the foundation for disasters, which are then largely absolutely predictable, - almost always - cannot cause harm to the cultural heritage itself. And this good practice should be exported. We talk about Santa Croce and the cultural heritage there contained. There is talk of an event that took place on Saturday to move the famous Crucifix Christ of the Cimabue, which you know well and which was the symbol of the Florentine flood, to a safe place inside the basilica itself. The words I read before are from the head of the Civil Protection Department Franco Gabrielli, present at this demonstration. I am talking about this in this House because I believe that there is a change of culture and approach in the policies for safeguarding cultural heritage, which is important for our country. It is good that all our museums, cultural goods and mobile works of art, where possible (often possible, and in any case the local authorities and the superintendences have to deal with this), are moved to places such that, in the case of a calamitous event (flood and whatever else), they cannot be ruined and should not be taken care of after their restoration. It is a "flood-proof" set-up (it has been called so). I believe that this new mode, which comes from Florence, the place where the Opificio delle Pietre Grazie operates and where all the major works of art have been restored, can be significant for everyone. Senator colleagues, within our territories, when we see works of art that we know are placed in places exposed to natural disasters, we must ask for a commitment from local leaders, supervisors, mayors, so that these works are removed and placed directly in safe places. This is the message that came to us from Florence on Saturday and that I felt I had to bring to the Senate Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u120	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor in this House because I would like to remind you of a serious event that happened in Genoa a year ago. At 22,59 on May 7, 2013 the cargo "Jolly Nero" of the Messina company, during a maneuver, crashed the tower of the pilots of the port of Genoa, making it collapse. The dead were nine, six port office soldiers and three civilians, and I want to remember their names. The victims of the Coast Guard are: subcape Giuseppe Tusa, 25 years old, of Milazzo (Messina); subcape Daniele Fratantonio, 30 years old, of Rapallo (Genoa); subcape Davide Morella, 33 years old, of Biella; the head of before Marco De Candussio, 39 years old, of Barga (Lucca); Sergeant Giovanni Jacoviello, 33 years old, of La Spezia; marshal Francesco Cetrola, 38 years old, of Salerno. The civilian victims are: Maurizio Potenza, 50 years old, of Genoa, radio operator of the pilots of the port; Sergio Basso, 50 years old, radio operator of tugboats; Michele Robazza, 31 years old, from Livorno, pilot. Today it has been called the longest day. The remembrance guy. Genova does not forget, and neither do I, along with my colleagues, forget, Mr President. Before Mass there was a procession that from the place of the collapse of the tower of the pilots went to the cathedral of San Lorenzo, behind the banner with the inscription "Live forever." Many participants wear the t-shirt with the inscription "Fratak" not to forget, a reference to Daniele Fratantonio, one of the victims of the tragedy of the Giano Pier. To mothers, wives, daughters and sons of dead men we owe respect and we must ensure a swift and concrete justice, which one year after the disaster has not yet been achieved. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like a minute's silence in this House in memory of these men. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u121	Thank you, Senator Albano. Perhaps today we should have made such a speech at the beginning of the sitting, given the scale of the matter. Having happened in recent times, I remember very well when my colleague Maurizio Rossi signalled to us in this House that this tragedy had happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-242.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 8 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.54 p.m.
