ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 17 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u3	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decrees dated 21 February 2014, accepted the resignation resigned on 14 February 2014 by the Cabinet chaired by Mr. Dr. Enrico LETTA, as well as the resignation from their respective positions resigned by the Subsecretaries of State. Having accepted the mandate to form the Government conferred on me on 17 February 2014, the President of the Republic appointed me, with his own decree on 21 February 2014, President of the Council of Ministers. With further decrees on equal date, the President of the Republic, on my proposal, appointed Mr Maria Elena BOSCHI, Mr Maria Anna MADIA, Dr Maria Carmela LANZETTA, Ministers without portfolio. Ministers were also appointed: - of foreign affairs, Mrs Federica MOGHERINI; - of the Interior, Mr Angelino ALFANO; - of Justice, Mr Andrea ORLANDO; - of Defence, Senator Dr Roberta PINOTTI; - of the Economy and Finance, Professor Pietro Carlo PADOAN; - of Economic Development, Dr Federica GUIDI; - of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, Dr Maurizio MARTINA; - of Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr Gian Luca GALLETTI; - of Infrastructure and Transport, Dr Maurizio LUPI; - of Labour and Social Policies, Mr Giuliano POLETTI; - of Education, University and Research, Senator Stefania GIANNINI; - of Heritage and Cultural Activities, and of Tourism, Mr Dario FRANCESCHINI; - of Health, Mr Beatrice LORENZIN. Moreover, the President of the Republic, with his own decree today, adopted on my proposal and after consulting the Council of Ministers, appointed Dr Graziano DELRIO State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, acting as Secretary of the Council of Ministers. Finally, by my decree on the same date, after hearing the Council of Ministers, I gave the Ministers without portfolio, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, the following tasks: - to Mr Maria Elena BOSCHI the constitutional reforms and relations with Parliament; - to Mrs Maria Anna MADIA the simplification and public administration; - to Dr Maria Carmela LANZETTA the regional affairs. F.to Matteo Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u4	The next item is the communication by the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that the President of the Council of Ministers' communications take place live on television. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u5	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, we are approaching you on our toes, with the deep, non-formal respect that is due to this House, which is due to the history of a country in some of its places, not only a symbol - that is something that holds together - but also an element of deep unity. We approach with the astonishment of those who realize the magnificence and greatness not only of a physical place, but also of the value that this represents in the heart of a long history, like the Italian one. We approach you, therefore, with the astonishment of those who realize that they are in front of a piece of a story that comes from a unique tradition. But, at the same time, we know perfectly well that we live a time of great difficulty, of heartbreaking responsibilities and, in the face of the extent of this challenge, we need to recover courage, taste and, in some respects, also the pleasure of trying to make dreams greater than those we have carried out up to now and at the same time accompany them by a punctual, precise concreteness. I was thinking this morning that I'm not old enough to sit in the Senate of the Republic. I wouldn't like to start with a learned and extraordinary quotation of the still very good Gigliola Cincetti, but that's the way it is: I'm not old. And it suggests that today in front of you, senators and senators, we are here not to pursue a record of history, not to lengthen one line our curriculum vitae, not to take away some personal satisfaction: we are here - we owe it to you - to speak a language of frankness, I would like to say at the limit of brutality, in respect of the history to which I have referred. We are asking for trust, and today asking for trust is a counter-current gesture, and not so much in the political debate (due, institutional, constitutionally planned). To ask for trust today means to try to go against the tide: it is difficult to trust in the daily relationship with people, with working colleagues; the people who are outside this House know that asking for trust today is increasingly difficult. The demand for trust is not fashionable. We ask this senate to be trusted. We are committed to meriting trust as a Government, because we think that Italy has the urgent and indisputable need to recover trust as a condition to get out of the crisis situation in which we are in. Our country is a rusty country, a country bogged down, chained by an asphyxiating bureaucracy, by rules, norms and codes that paradoxically do not eliminate illegality: without having to go back to the Manzoni screams, the idea that the norms that have happened over the years have not produced the desired result is in the eyes of everyone. Yet today, asking for confidence means proposing a bold, unified vision, and in some respects also - I hope - innovative, starting from the language of frankness with which I communicate from the outset that I would like to be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this House. I am aware of the scope of this expression, and also the risk of doing so in the face of senators and senators who certainly do not deserve the role of last senators for personal quality to give confidence to a government, but it is so. A government is not asking for it: a country is asking for it, Italy is asking for it. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Today we do not imagine that we are the last to ask for trust because we have a prejudice on you, but because we have an organic judgment on Italy for which or we are in condition... [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] I appreciate that this statement has aroused the enthusiasm of Senator Calderoli, but the peremptority of this statement corresponds to the awareness that what we are experiencing is a moment in which either we have the courage to make radical and decisive choices, or we will not lose only the relationship between us, but also the relationship with those who from home continue to think that politics is a serious thing, that politics is what the greatest has a country, that politics is the value for which it is worth confronting, discussing, quarreling, but also for which in the end it is worth living an experience of respect for others; that extraordinary experience for which we are, unlike some leaders, proud to be democratic, we are proud to appreciate the rules of the game of democracy. Of course, the more you will be able to stimulate us, the more you will be able to push us, the more you will be able to tell us in detail how we can change, the more incisive the action of this Government will be. However, we cannot but start from a real judgment on what is outside these classrooms. If we had listened to the local markets in recent years the same way we listened to the financial markets, we would have noticed that the first demand is for simplicity, peace and clarity; it is the demand for a cease-fire in politics vis-à-vis the citizens. The impression we gave instead is that of an anguish in the relationship between politicians and citizens, for which the idea that today is strong in the country is that Italy has already finished all the future that it had, that Italy has exhausted its cards and that it is a finite country, more than an infinite country. Well, we have accelerated and decided to change the approach of the Government in the political forces that support it because we think that out of here there is a lively, brilliant and curious Italy; an Italy that, in waiting outside these Palazzi, loves and wants to present itself well. An Italy that does not follow us for a reason: because it is ahead of us. He is ahead of us: it is we who have to chase her and have to recover her. It is Italy that is perhaps getting tired of waiting for us, and I propose, and we propose to you as a Government, to do everything possible to achieve it through a package of reforms that considers the European semester as the main opportunity, which addresses before the European Semester the choices related to policies on work, tax, public administration, justice, that puts the value of the school at the centre, but that naturally starts from constitutional, institutional and electoral reforms, on which an agreement has been recorded that goes beyond the majority that supports this Government, and for which we can only say that the agreements will respect them in the time and in the manner laid down. We think, however, that we should start with a premise. The assumption is that we were at a crossroads: either we went to elections, more or less... VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We're not afraid to go to the election. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We're used to it, as a party... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I say to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, who I learn to appreciate in this House, that I am the secretary of a political party that is never afraid to run for election: even where polls say otherwise, as in Sardinia [[Applause from the PD Group]] , even where there is difficulty, we are not afraid to go to the elections, and in this first year of parliamentary life, in which we received from you supposed lessons of democracy, I point out to you, kind senators and excellent senators, that in the four regional elections that took place - those of Sardinia, Basilicata and the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano - the Democratic Party has always presented itself and has always won. I can't say the same for you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're not afraid to go to the election. We have in our DNA the will and the desire to confront us, but the electoral transition that would have been expected in these hours was an electoral transition in which, given the electoral law that emerged from the Constitutional Court's ruling, a scheme would have been reproduced that would have led to a substantial government of broad understanding. There is no one who does not see that it would not have been possible for anyone to obtain the necessary majority to govern in the two branches of Parliament without a change in the rules of the game, and we have proposed, from the first day, that the rules of the game be written by everyone, even by those who first raised the voice. We think in fact, we thought and we will think that it is a shared value that after twenty years in which, first the left, then the right, first the center-left and then the center-right, when it came to writing the constitutional rules, they proceeded by majority - the center-left in 2001, the center-right in 2006 - with the related electoral law, that writing the rules of the game together is the fundamental and constitutive value of the respect of the institutions. We will try to do so, but in a legislature to which we have extended the political horizon (certainly, not the constitutional and institutional one, which is fixed, as is natural, in 2018). Arriving in 2018, however, only makes sense if we feel the urgency from which I started in my speech, which is the urgency of a radical change so that, while the times of politics seem dilated, the people who accompany their children to school in the morning cannot afford referrals. While politics - let me tell you by a mayor - from Rome seems a policy in which the delay is constant; a policy in which you can also postpone the day after, you can endlessly lengthen the time of the decision, you can postpone the urgency of the measures; while out of here this seems natural, when you go into everyday life, when you go to talk with people who even simply struggle to reconcile their schedules, even simply to reconcile their daily life, the sense of urgency, of time that cannot pass in vain, becomes a central element. That's why we propose to this Senate to come out of the literary genre that talk shows have essentially customsed, a literary genre for which there is no transmission that does not start from a merciless judgment on the Italian situation with then a service of a crew abroad that tells how abroad things go perfectly well and everything is extraordinarily beautiful and happy. By now it has become a literary topos; by now we have as a point of reference the fact that in television broadcasts, in talk shows, out of here, out of Italy, everything is fine and everything is bad from us: it is not so. Let's leave the choir of lamentation; let's try to imagine a concrete path in which the difference between dream and goal - someone said - is a date. Let us give ourselves deadlines and try to extend the work of these years by giving specific steps. This allows us to arrive at 1 July, having done - some say - the homework; this allows us to arrive at the appointment with the European semester, giving a not merely formal value to that appointment, but giving it a substantial value. I will not be afraid of your patience with an analysis, which would also be necessary (but will not be lacking other occasions) on the situation of profound international institutional upheaval. MARTON (M5S). Bravo! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. On how the world outside Italy is changing and how paradoxically this world reduces Europe's space, reduces Europe's margin of power. I will not tease you about this, but I think I have a duty to tell the Senate of the Republic that if we want to imagine that the European semester is a serious thing we must tell, explain, think what kind of Europe we imagine in the international framework that is changing. We cannot imagine that the European Semester is simply an opportunity to make appointments for the new institutions. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We need to tell what Europe means in the changing world. DIVINE (LN-Aut). You want to tell us? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. This is the central point of the European Semester, and we will not be credible if we fail to arrive at the European Semester by having fixed what we have to fix. I understand that in this House, as in the House, as in public opinion, there is an easy tendency to see Europe as the mother of our problems. I would like to say not only that for me and the government that I have the honour to chair, it is not so, but that in the European-European tradition it is the best part of Italy. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups]] , that in the European-European tradition, in the values of freedom and democracy lies the certainty that Italy has a future and not just a past. And when I think of that man in an island who imagined the United States of Europe as the conflict raged [[Applause from the PD and PI groups]] , when I think of that man who, in a moment of difficulty for our continent and fratricidal confrontation, managed to intuit, to imagine, in some way to prophesy in a secular way a vision of the United States of Europe, I feel proud to be belonging to Italian history. The point is that putting things right at home does not come from a European obligation: it is not Mrs Merkel or Governor Draghi who asks to be serious with our public debt: it is the respect that we owe to our children, to the generations that will come [[Applause from the PD, PI and NCD Groups]] , it is the respect that we owe to the people who will come after us who require us to look at the public accounts differently from how it has been done by those who have watered down over the last decades. That is the central point, and if we are in a position to arrive at 1 July when we have addressed the constitutional, institutional, electoral, labour, tax, public employment, justice issues and set a different attitude towards school, I propose that this Senate and the House of Deputies be able to live the European semester as an opportunity to lead the institutions of Europe for six months, but by studying a proposal so that in the next twenty years we can lead Europe politically, in a path that concerns our children and that is one of the central points of the credibility of the institutions. If that is true, I have a duty to enter into the substance of the ways in which this attitude must become a reality. I also have a duty to tell you that the cultural subalternity with which, too often, Europe has been viewed as our stepmother is a cultural subalternity of which we alone can free ourselves. We can't imagine anyone else solving our problems. We live at a time when, in the face of an Erasmus generation, which, among other things, is represented to the Government, which has experienced the dream of the United States of Europe as concreteness, which has known the euro as the only currency or almost, we feel the need to indicate a perspective of the future, not to live with regrets and false reconstructions of the past. I propose to this Senate that it be the legislature of the turning point. I would have liked this passage to have been preceded by a clear electoral mandate. MARTON (M5S). Bravo! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We know how the election went. Today we propose that we be in a position to assess a political choice. You will not be surprised that in this Government the secretaries of the major parties are represented, because this is a political government and we think that the word "political" is not a bad word. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We think we can go to the streets and say that the policy we have in mind is real, true and precise. We think that there is no policy that does not start from the centrality of the school. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I would like those who presume to have the truth in their pockets to have the opportunity to confront teachers in schools and families in their everyday lives, because the idea that there is caste on this side and on the other side there are citizens has turned a little upside down. I say this to a part of this Parliament. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Those of us who have met citizens, teachers, educators and mothers every day know perfectly well that there is a beautiful and extraordinary request that is twofold. On the one hand, the teacher is asked to return social value to the teacher, and this does not need any reform, but a change of form mentis. MUSSINI (M5S). He needs money! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. He does not need money, reforms, study commissions: there is a need for respect that is due to those who daily go to our classes and assume on himself the heartbreaking and devastating task of being a collaborator of the creation of a freedom: co-worker of the family and educational agencies. A teacher's job is extraordinary. Have you ever talked to the teachers and listened to what they say today? [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u6	There will be a way of expressing disagreement during the debate. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u7	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I hope that the President of the Senate will allow me to make this invitation to the senators of my party: let us always remember that we have a social function, aimed at recovering the difficulties that the senators and senators of the 5 Star Movement Group are encountering at the moment with regard to their own base and the public opinion that supports them. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Susta and Merloni]] It's not easy being in a party where there's a leader saying, I'm not democratic. So, we love him even if they don't want us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I'm in no hurry. I'm moving on. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Fear, Renzi? Are you scared? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u8	Please, senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u9	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I was talking about teachers. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] What is this country's priority over teachers? The Minister of Education and University knows for sure: involve school workers from below in every reform process. There's no doubt about it. But there is one priority upstream: to recover that trust, that credibility, to recover that dimension for which if you do things here, then in schools you can come back to believe that education really is the engine of development. There are great studies by economists that demonstrate how a territory that invests in human capital, in education, in public education is a stronger territory than others. As President of the Council, I will enter the schools once I have obtained - if so - the confidence of the Senate and the House. Wednesday morning, as I do every week, I will go to a school (the first will be an institute in Treviso, because I chose to leave from the North-East, while next week I will go to a school in the South), and I will do so because I think it is essential that the government not only stays in Rome, and therefore I will go to schools, as I used to be mayor, to give a symbolic signal, if you even want banal, to show that a country starts from there again. From the ability to educate, to pull away, to pull out (in the Latin sense of the word) comes the credibility of a country, but to do so there is a need for the ability to guarantee a concrete administrative. With what credibility can we say this if we continue to keep investment in school construction blocked by an Internal Stability Pact which at least needs to be changed immediately on this side? How can one think that the Municipality, the Province have competence on school building without, however, having the possibility to spend money that is stuck there because there are rules that care about bureaucratic stability but do not realize the stability of the classrooms in which they go to study our children? [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, PI and SCP Groups]] How can there be no clarity about this? Tomorrow I will write a letter to my fellow mayors, over 8,000, asking all of them and the presidents of the surviving Provinces. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] to take stock of the situation on school building, following a beautiful reasoning of Senator Renzo Piano. I do not know which of you has had the opportunity to know the words, in my opinion extraordinary, that Renzo Piano said a few days ago in an interview. Plan has invited us to mend our territories, to mend the outskirts. I think it's a very nice expression, which gives a sense of what we need. We need to intervene in school building from 15 June to 15 September, with an extraordinary programme - of the order of a few billion euros, not a few tens of millions - to be implemented on the individual territories, starting from the requests of the mayors and intervening in a concrete and punctual way. But how? In the face of the economic crisis, do you start from schools? Yes: in the face of the economic crisis you can not leave schools. In the face of the economic crisis, starting from schools means, above all, starting from an educational truce with families and from an intervention in building and school infrastructure on which, in the coming weeks, you will see concrete results. It is clear that the subject of school is partial to the great theme of education. It starts with kindergartens. The Lisbon Goals today see a country dramatically divided into two, between a part of Italy that has already achieved those goals (with some cities that are above 40%) and a part of Italy that sails on dramatic percentages. Some are not even double-digit: I am referring to the number of children attending kindergartens. It's not a subject for professionals. It is the real theme in everyday life. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not necessarily, but partially, the subject that relates to the fact that we have the highest female unemployment in Europe. And it's unacceptable in a frame like the one we're living in. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, PI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE).]] It is a subject that relates to the fact that a child who does not attend kindergarten has an opportunity less than one of his peers in another country. However, I would not like this to lead to a loss of judgment on the priorities relating to the economic situation. I would like to record that the school is the starting point, and I would like to comment on the four reforms that we are proposing to you, which we will propose in the coming weeks and months, and whose urgency is the element that dictates the time scan of the coming months and years, and also the change that we have made within the government. I change that it cannot in any way obscure the results that the previous government has obtained. And let me turn a special thought to the outgoing President of the Council, Mr Enrico Letta. [[Applause from the PD, PI, SCPI, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] We live in a situation where [[. (Comments from the M5S Group.]] They said you didn't have fun at the Senate. Instead, I see you guys in peace. I guarantee you will have more and more fun! From 2008 to 2013, while someone was having fun, this country's GDP lost 9 percentage points. Youth unemployment has risen from 21.3 to 41.6 percent. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. We know! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Unemployment has risen from 6.7 percent to 12.6 percent, according to the latest figure. They are not the numbers of a crisis: they are the numbers of a collapse. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. President, that's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't comment now. There will be time during the debate and explanations of vote. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It's not just a question of answering with numbers. The crisis has the face of women and men, and not of slides. Who has had the opportunity to know the dynamics of the corporate crises, who has held hands with the cassintegrato, who has entered, because he was the mayor, in a factory or who has seen, as a congressman or as a senator, and has received delegations of workers and workers knows perfectly that the crisis is not a number. But this number is ruthless. But this number is devastating. But this number requires a radical change in economic policies. The radical change in economic policies comes first and foremost from some concrete measures which, with Minister Padoan, we have discussed and which we will deepen over the coming weeks. The first element on which we make a commitment is the total release - not partial: I repeat, total - of the debts of the public administration through a different use of the Cash deposits and loans. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] The second element that we put on the agenda immediately is the creation and support of guarantee funds, including through the use, again, of the Deposit and Loan Fund, but not only, to resolve the only real, important and fundamental issue that we have on the table, which is that of small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to access credit. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The third point that we will immediately put to your attention - we will do so in the coming weeks - is a double-digit reduction of the tax wedge, through serious and irreversible measures, linked to the revision of expenditure, but not only, which will lead in the first months of the first half of 2014 to see immediate and concrete results. On these three commitments we are in a position not to offer words, but precise and timely interventions. Enough? No! It is not enough (I am the first to say so), and not because the part of the rules and regulations is not an important part. No decree creates, through the rules, jobs: at most it may cause jobs to be removed (but this is another story). We will start, by March, with the parliamentary discussion of the so-called Work Plan, which, by modifying a universal instrument in support of those who lose their jobs, will intervene through new, even profoundly innovative, regulatory rules. In fact, if we do not succeed in creating new recruits, the problem of the guarantees of new recruits does not even arise. Imagine, however, that we intervene in a structural way in the ability to attract investments in this country, investments that in recent years, unfortunately, due to the crisis, have decreased significantly, reaching 12 billion last year. There is a surreal debate on this issue. National interest seems to prevent the attraction of investment. It seems that, when a subject wants to invest in Italy, this must be chased to the cry of trouble to the foreigner! A living, rich, open and curious country is not afraid to attract investments: it goes looking for them and does everything to facilitate the investment by individuals who come from outside. As mayor I could tell you about the mother of all privatizations: the privatization of the New Pignone, which in the Nineties saw an incredible increase in performance by its buyer (the Americans of GE) and which today sees multiplied by 7 jobs. The national interest is not the launch of the agency of the Member or senator in search of visibility: the national interest is the job created, it is a family that manages to get out of the unemployment situation. The national interest that this country has is to improve its current position in the international ranking: we are in the penultimate place in the OECD ranking - correct me if I'm wrong - for the ability to attract, while we are in 126th place in the World Bank's Doing business index. This leads us to be perceived outside only as a wonderful country to go on vacation. But is there a country that is potentially more attractive than ours? Is there a country that can combine the quality of living well with the ability to hold on to the genius, intuition, innovation on the part of workers and workers? It seems possible that, while in the world, startups and large innovative companies, from the United States to Israel, live, grow (in some cases also die, because this is the destiny of startups), in an extraordinarily innovative dimension, we are instead stuck to a principle for which, among service conferences, superintendences and bureaucratic brakes, before we succeed in bringing home a concrete result, such as the opening of a shed, do we live of the times that are biblical? But don't you hear how cries, in the concreteness of every day, the urgency from which we started instead of the difficulties that the public car puts in the stakes to those who want to come to invest? We need a simple and courageous country at work, a country that is not afraid - I stress - to face in a different way the relationship with public administration. You will allow me to say - and I know that it may even seem provocative - that there are sectors of the state that live the peripecies of politics with apparent respect, but with a substantial retro-thinking: governments pass, leaders remain. Sometimes I came to think that the opposite would be better, but in fact it is not so, it would be an excessive form. However, I believe that a country that affirms the contextuality between the popular expression of the government of the country and the governing structure of the public machine is civil. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCPI groups and Senator Fazzone.]] In other words, I think it is time to say with force that a strong policy is the one that entrusts certain times also to the role of the leaders and that cannot exist, firm and save the acquired rights, the possibility of an executive who remains indefinitely and who does the beautiful and the bad time. We are not to subtract responsibilities from the leaders: we are to give them all; we would like the word accountability to find a translation in Italian, because there are the erial responsibilities, the criminal ones and the civil ones, but there is not one to fail to achieve the objectives, if not at the theoretical level: this, however, is a challenge of common sense, that in the span of four years can be won and faced if we leave immediately and if we also have the courage - let me tell you - to bring out clearly, clearly and clearly that every cent spent by the public administration must be visible online by everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Ichino.]] This means not simply the Freedom of Information Act, but a revolution in the relationship between citizens and public administration so that the citizen can check every gesture that his representative makes day after day. It is not just this, of course, the process of reforming the public administration that we will be presenting before the elections. Even before the elections, we also want to intervene on the tax system at all costs, through the use of the tax delegation that Parliament has entrusted, which we believe should be characterized by some clearly visible characteristics on the part of the citizens. To be able to send to all civil servants and pensioners directly at home, perhaps through a tool of simple technology - since the Pope said that the Internet is a gift from God, we can stop considering it as our obstacle or a problem - the tax return precompiled: it is a concrete and timely proposal that we received and received during the consultations, which can immediately show how the relationship between citizens and public administration changes. If the IRS ceases to be the enemy and to be hostile, if it stops being an IRS that is scary and becomes a scary one, but does some sort of advice to the citizen - except then when it happens that someone really commits crimes or in any case is liable to administrative sanctions, because then the repression must be very hard - it will assume different connotations, such as to get citizens out of the prejudice for which it always seems that those who are famous and powerful anyway disassemble it, while those who are dealing with an accounting folder - a million formal errors: there are many - live the relationship with public administration as an anguish. And this can only lead us naturally to the fourth and final point that I want to address: the point of justice. We have experienced twenty years of ideological confrontation on this issue. You may or may not like it. I do not believe that anyone, after twenty years, will convince the other part of the goodness of their opinions. After 20 years, I believe that positions are calcified, intangible, that no one can convince the other that a mistake has been made, or that it has been done well. I think it is time that we put an organic package of judicial review to the attention of this Parliament in June (it will be the responsibility of the minister responsible). I'm starting with administrative justice. We are a country where - let me tell you by those who are constantly beating our heads - lawyers work more, in public procurement than masons. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Carraro, Dalla Zuanna and Di Biagio]] In public procurement, there is no alternative to appealing against the suspensive action. We are to the point that the regional administrative courts can discern anything. We are to the point that a measure by a mayor (in some cases, including Parliament) is constantly being called into question in an impressive obstacle race. But how can we give legal certainty if we first have a system (I started from the administrative system) that creates concern not only for foreign investors, but also for the legal operators themselves, starting with the administrative judges, who in several circumstances have stressed the need for structural reforms? Civil justice. Today we live a time in which the length of the civil process, the difficulties of this are such that not only investment (and it is a problem) goes away, but also the possibility of really believing that the country is redimable, that the country is recoverable. There is this tired resignation that starts from the assumption that when you enter a courtroom you don't know how it gets out. This also applies to criminal justice, with what it entails. There is no doubt that in view of the extraordinary quality of so many women and men working in the field of justice (from judges to lawyers, legal practitioners and judicial police), there is a constant concern in public opinion (regardless of the discussions that have been the subject of 20 years of political debate) that justice in Italy runs the risk of arriving too late and also - allow me - to strike in a different way. I give an example, the most trivial, but deliberately trivial, in the eyes of public opinion, and deliberately dramatic in the heart of a political administrator. I do not know if any of you have dealt with public administration in territorial realities knows what is the hardest time for a mayor. For me, it was when the city police commander's text informed me that there had been a car accident. When a car accident occurs and a 17-year-old dies, the mayor does not simply have an administrative task. The mayor finds himself face to face with the pain of a family that sees its life totally upset. It happened to me, the senators and the Florentine senators know it, and it happened to so many of you. From the history of one of these families, from a path that we have made together it became clear that the drunken and drug addict gets rid of a scooter causing the death of a 17-year-old boy (the boy in question was called Lorenzo) at the end in court, for the most varied reasons, a sanction is imposed lower, or substantially similar, than that imposed for a theft of series B. You realize what it will become to meet on Lorenzo's 18th birthday his friends who celebrate his birthday without him Remember that? Do you realize what it can mean to go and say that I represent the institutions? And do you realize that they throw those girls and those guys at you, accusing politics of not being able to give clear rules, rules that are not just worth a political debate, but that are worth the life of a guy like them? This is the real life that we would like to inform more about the debate on justice: not simply our ideological derby, but the need to make justice a real asset for the development of the country. If these initiatives and measures come along, I believe that we will be in a position to tackle the transition of the European Semester more decisively, of course in the context of constitutional and electoral reform. I started from provocation, which provocation is not: overcoming the Senate. Today the legislative process is cumbersome: you know it better than I do. Today the number of parliamentarians is excessive compared to the European countries and the international benchmark of reference: you know it better than I do. Today there is the possibility of overcoming the current conformation of the Senate, keeping the no to the vote of confidence and the no to the budget vote and the possibility of performing the senatorial function not as the son of a direct election and with a bonus but, as in the German model, through the assumption of responsibility from the territories, enriched possibly - there are proposed in this sense - by further figures expressions of the cultural, academic and university world. This type of proposal is the first step towards regaining our credibility vis-à-vis citizens. The next step is to overcome Title V of the Constitution as we have known it to date. Title V today has the need to review the exclusive competences of the State and the Regions and to introduce the possibility for the Regions to legislate in any matter that is not specifically assigned, but at the same time to introduce a clause of intervention of the state law also in matters that are exclusively assigned to the regional competence when this is required by the needs of economic and legal unity of the order. We note that, in recent years, the appeal to the Constitutional Court, I do not say that it has flooded the Court, because it would be poorly respectful of the institutions, but it has caused an excess of tension between the Regions and the State. If we say today that we cannot return to a centralism of the state bureaucracy, as we have also said on the occasion of this intervention, it is also true that we need to ask the women and men who lead the regions and who are part of it to note that the climate has changed towards the regions. The climate has certainly changed for what has happened over the years with regard to electoral refunds, but it has also happened that, all too often, the overlapping of competences of the municipalities, the provinces, the regions and the central state with the European line to give to some extent a further element of complication has made the institutional system fundamentally ungovernable. We propose that, since March, the reform of the Senate departs from the Senate and that the reform of Title V departs from the House. As for the agreement on the electoral law - the so-called Italicum - we understand the need to value the fact that an electoral law allowing the ballot is obviously based on the presence of a single Chamber. At the same time, we know perfectly well that Italicum is ready to be discussed in the House. And we, from this point of view, consider Italicum not only a priority, but a first partial response to the need to prevent policy from further losing face. Let me explain: with what credibility can we say that it is urgent to intervene on the electoral law and then lose the opportunity of the quota that we have found? Of course, we say that there is a clear political link between the agreement on electoral law, the reform of the Senate and the reform of Title V: they are three parts of the same face. But I'd like to say two things about that. I turn to the Opposition Groups, and especially to the oppositions that have agreed to be in the debate on constitutional reforms, but which are not part of the majority of the Government. We have an open topic, and we discussed it during the consultations with Senator Romani, which is that of overcoming the Provinces. The Delrio bill is now in a position to prevent a vote for the Provinces on 25 May. There is a tough opposition in this House too, I imagine; there has been an opposition in the House, where there has been an opposition, in some respects even a form of obstruction, between Forza Italia and the 5 Star Movement. We invite you to reflect on a possible simple, obvious solution within the reach of all of us. In accordance with the different positions, we close the Delrio bill and prevent voting for the Provinces on 25 May, but in the debate on Title V we reopen the discussion among ourselves on what the Provinces should be. It seems to me to be a point of balance, and it shows that we are aware that on the subject of the Provinces we cannot miss the passage that is open to us. Do you really want to re-vote May 25 for 46 provincial institutions? Who takes responsibility for saying that this is not a cost and, above all, is not a loss of opportunity? Do we want to return to the umpteenth TAR that intervenes judging illegitimate one or the other measure? There is space to close this passage quickly. The second point on reforms is as follows. We want to challenge Parliament, we do not consider Parliament to be a useless harp. We are ready to recover, within a shared framework, all possible improvements. We do not have the idea of coming to the line and waiting for it to be carried out quickly in the parliamentary classrooms. Are you kidding me? However, we ask you, together with us, to take responsibility for the fact that the times are no longer an independent variable; and that if we do not start with institutional and constitutional reforms and then intervene with the reform package that I have presented to you during the course of the intervention, we lose the possibility of being considered credible, not so much by our European partners, but also and above all by our fellow citizens. I'm going to the conclusion. There are a number of measures, which we discussed at the consultation stage, which have not been covered by this programme report, by choice. I would like to tell you how much we intend to invest in culture as an identity element. I know that there is a part among you, excellent senators, kind senators, who believes that the word "identity" is to some extent the bulwark against the word "integration." It's not like that. I believe that identity is the basis for integration. The opposite of integration is not identity: it is disintegration. A country that doesn't integrate has no future. That is why, in the face of a cultural debate that has seen the rights become the object of confrontation (to the point that each of us has brought its own flag in all the electoral campaigns on the subject of rights, right and left, but then nothing has ever been done), we imagine, with this Government and with your help, to find real points of synthesis, that allow that child who is twelve years old, who attends the fifth grade... [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] BIGNAMI (M5S). The seventh grade, if anything. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ... and that she was born in the same city where her partner was born, to have the possibility, after a school cycle, to be considered Italian, exactly as her partner is. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PI Groups]] Each of us has its own assessment; if one of us thinks that it would be right for that child to be considered Italian at the time of her birth but others among us think that at least one school cycle is needed, the effort today is not to assert its own reasons against others, but to find the possible point of synthesis, as well as on civil rights. Today a friend of mine wrote to me: If you have to approve a form of civil unions that is not what we want, then do not approve it. No, that is not the case: rights are an effort to listen, to find a point of synthesis. This is a profound change of method. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PI Groups]] There is an effort on rights to find a compromise even when this compromise does not fully satisfy us. We will listen to each other, but credibility on this issue will be the fall point of a possible understanding, which has already been built during these days. We'll see about that. To argue, however, that identity is the opposite of integration means to fight with reality, it means to fight nothing. I would like us to show each other the faces of our children when they go to one of the events that organize the local authorities or visit a museum at night, when they realize, that is, that culture is something with which they eat, that is something that feeds the soul. When I say that we eat with culture I say that, then, we must also have the courage to open up to private investments in culture. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] In fact, if we say that the phrase 'with culture' is wrong, we must also have the courage to say that culture must open up to the involvement of private investment and create jobs. I would, however, like to show myself and you the faces and faces of those who, in recent years, had the opportunity, for example, to see a museum at night, had the opportunity to be questioned by a work of art, had the opportunity to try to listen to the beauty of music, not only in schools - where it must be taken, or reported, in a different way - but also in everyday life. In any reality in the world other than Italy, being Italian is a gift. In any reality in the world that is not our power palaces, being Italian is an element of beauty that I do not know how much you save the world, but it certainly saves the export of our companies. In any place other than the narrow self-referentiality of our debate, the values of culture make us a world superpower. If we are not in a position to understand that the flat world in which we live is a world that paradoxically offers us endless opportunities, that can unite technological districts with cultural goods, that can unite the ability to invest in the new generations with the experience, wisdom and beauty of the greatest, if we are not able, on this theme, to be concretely operational, we lose a piece of our cultural and economic heritage. It is a part of the crisis response to change the rules of the game also in these areas. I have not spoken, but I cannot do it now, of how in the Work Plan that we will present in March there will be a sort of industrial plan for the individual sectors, understood not simply as aid or intervention on every single sector, but as the need to invent new jobs: on alternative energies, on green chemistry, on technological innovation applied to research, on the real and deep investments that can be made against the hydrogeological failure in a country where we have money blocked and stopped - also for the responsibilities of the public administrations - crying out for revenge, not only for what they are living in these hours the Modena or the area of Olbia, but also for how in these years we have had to live with the breath of certain emergencies that could be dealt in a much simpler way. But do we really still have steady money on the lamination and expansion boxes, when the changing world makes it so easy to intervene in this situation? But really in some realities of the country still do not know who has the power of intervention on the banks, for the excess of functions between the Regions, the Provinces, the Municipalities, the authorities of field? Do we really think that these are B-series issues, not to mention why we only have to discuss our daily realities with each other? How can we fail to note that we also need a real breakthrough on this issue? I could go on for a long time, but I won't. I'm just finishing with the expression of a personal feeling. Yesterday, when I arrived at Palazzo Chigi, I chose to make some symbolic phone calls, but not only symbolic. I have called two of our Italian fellow citizens who have been stuck in New Delhi for too long for an absolutely hallucinating affair, for which I guarantee the personal commitment of myself and the Government. [[Applause.]] I called a girl my age: her name is Lucia, she's from Pesaro. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi, Casini and Susta.]] These days she's fighting in a trial because she's been rubbed in her face by her ex-boyfriend, and she's one of the people I wanted to make this country feel close to. [[Applause]] I called - I know you don't care, but I do - a friend of mine who lost his job. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] I think I understand what it's like to cross the look of a daddy (not to mention a daddy) who lost his job and realize that your job isn't to scream here but to try to give concrete answers to change the rules of the game marks the difference between his propaganda, senator, and our politics. [[Applause from the PD, Aut, PI and SCPI Groups and the Senators Cassano, Fazzone and Liuzzi]] However, I have also and above all chosen to think about what it means for a boy who today is about my age the fact that the government chooses to say that this is the moment of the radical turning point. That is, I put myself in the head to think about what it could mean to each of us that not only do we live today a moment of change for the government, but what this change of government means in people's lives. A lady, joking to a certain point (maybe she wanted to give me a compliment), yesterday coming out of Mass she told me: Of course, if you are the President-in-Office of the Council, anyone can do it. She probably wanted to be nice: it didn't look so good for her, or maybe it's the truth. But I thought that's really true, all the way. I come to this responsibility coming from an innovative, strong and authoritative political experience such as that of the Democratic Party, in which a generation has been given the opportunity to challenge itself, has given itself the opportunity to try. My gratitude goes to my party, as, of course, to the other parties that make up the coalition, as it should be. However, a special gratitude goes to my party, which at a certain time allowed us to say: if you have ideas Play it with you; If you have dreams, try to put yourself in the game. Today we are full of people, of moments, of life, in which it is exactly the opposite, in which they tell us: "No, you can't do it, you can't achieve the result"; in which practically everyone tells us, always and anyway, that there is a block, that Italy doesn't come out of the crisis, that the mortgage in the bank doesn't give it to you to buy home, that, while you're an apprentice, you don't even have the chance to have the money you need to eat a pizza and drink a beer. What do we say to this generation here today? We say here today that Italy wants to become the place of opportunity. I do not think there are equal opportunities in the fact that there are half women in the government: the opportunity - let me say the joke - is odd, it is not equal, there is only one. We only have one chance: this is it. And we tell you, looking into your eyes, that if we were to lose, we would not seek alibis: if we lose this challenge, the fault will be mine alone. In fact, the time has to end when those who go to the Palaces of Power, then, every time they find an excuse. There's no alibi left for anyone, first for me. [[Applause from the PD, PI, and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] In this scenario, however, let me conclude that this Italy of possibilities is an Italy that today sees a Government asking for trust on the basis of a radical change, immediate and punctual, and that, at the same time, offers all the best of what it has. The idea is that the future of Italy is not to be the taillight of Europe, that the future of Italy is not to be complaining and crying from morning to evening, that the future of Italy is not simply to tell us how things go wrong or why they don't let us work. The future of Italy lies in the qualities, genius, intelligence and curiosity of each of us. We are absolutely certain that, by putting all of ourselves in this challenge, the possibility of change is real, concrete and immediate, as long as each of us lives the future not as an unknown and as long as each of us knows that it is the time of courage, and that this time of courage excludes no one and leaves no alibi to anyone. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups. The Senators of PD, PI and SCPI Groups stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u10	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, in order to allow the President of the Council to go to the Chamber of Deputies and deliver the text of the programmatic declarations, the sitting is suspended and will resume as soon as possible with the speeches under discussion on confidence according to the timing already defined by the Conference of Leaders. The President of the Council's reply and explanations of vote will be followed on television from 8 p.m. The vote will then be taken by roll-call vote. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.19 p.m. and resumed at 5.15 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u11	Mr President, new senators, this is the Parliament of the Italian Republic, from which the laws governing the State should come out, while by now it does nothing but legitimize the measures of the Government and give votes of confidence. Today's is the usual, tired liturgy, for what is not a democratic alternation of Government, but it is simply the effigy of an oligarchic system, which gives itself a whitewashed, with a toxic paint and of bad quality. In 2011, Matteo Renzi said: The elections give power to citizens, not party secretaries. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Public funding must be abolished or drastically reduced, and in my idea of State there is the privatisation of public enterprises, municipalized enterprises, the alienation of part of the state's real estate, the liberalisation of local public services. Translated: space for private profit, drying up common goods, reduction of workers' rights. Just a month ago, Matteo Renzi, referring to Letta, announced: "Enrico stay calm." Let's hope he doesn't tell the Italians: "Italiani sta sereni" (Italian) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He said of Berlusconi: "We are at the epilogue." In the meantime he has made an agreement with Berlusconi for the electoral law, he has installed himself without any popular election, he makes the scraper that governs with the broken up [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , wants to destroy the constitutional institutions and wants to reform a month. This last thing, if you'll excuse me, makes us laugh a little. Who more than us can understand that? She never did, so she can't know what she's saying. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This Head of Government is carrying an executive without a real program: only populist chatter. But the populists in here are us: it's a wrong moment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The majority that supports it is always the same and has already caused enormous damage to the country, such as the law on the financing of parties, which remains public, 7.5 billion euros donated to the banks, the measures "Destination Italy" and empty prisons, which eat territory and make discounts for the crimes of concussion and corruption right in the country with the highest percentage of corrupt in Europe and one of the highest in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u12	Please conclude, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u13	FACTORS (M5S). And more than green energy: garbage in cement factories! In the near future, the European Semester will only call for yet another derogation from the Maastricht parameters, while the much praised dignity will be placed at the yoke of assignments, for the scandalous and useless Expo 2015... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u14	Please conclude, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u15	FACTORS (M5S). I will conclude by quoting the report on the economic situation of the Eurozone, which you mentioned, Matteo Renzi (it was January 7, 2014 and the Government was Enrico Letta). Then, please, throw away the mask, since the Italian people have not asked you and do not ask you to sit where you are sitting. Who sent it? Who's the puppet master? Whose interests do you come to defend? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already invited you to conclude, Senator Fattori. FACTORS (M5S). Matteo, stay calm! Don't you give up? We don't either. No trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u16	I invite you to stick to your schedule, even in anticipation of live television. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to talk about conflict of interest, since you did not do so, and I will quote Pier Paolo Pasolini. He wrote Pier Paolo, on the "Corriere della Sera" of 9 December 1973: There is no doubt (...) that television is authoritarian and repressive as no means of information in the world. The fascist newspaper and the writings on the farmsteads of Mossolini slogans make you laugh: like (...) the plow compared to a tractor. Fascism (...) was not even able to scratch the soul of the Italian people: the new fascism, through the new media of communication and information (especially television), not only scratched it, but lacerated it, violated it, ugly forever. I say this because the 5 Star Movement is against any kind of conflict of interest. This article tells us that you already knew then, and for all these years you have kept silent while knowing, and doing nothing. That's why I'm telling you. I don't trust you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u18	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made three specific commitments: payment of all public administration debts, reduction of the tax wedge by at least 10%, increase of the guarantee fund. As an opponent for the Italians, for our children and for our grandchildren, I will ensure that you keep these commitments and if you do so you will be applauded. Italian companies to stay on our territory and foreigners to invest in Italy need three fundamental conditions: timely decisions by politics and bureaucracy at the level of Municipalities, Provinces, Regions and State. There must be no and yes timely. Global taxes must be lower than current taxes and must be clear and not a completely incomprehensible forest. The third precondition is that civil justice must have normal times. It is not possible to live in a country where the creditor must hope that the debtor is an honest person, because otherwise he has no weapons to fight. It is absolutely necessary to simplify: if we simplify, among other things, we contract the times. It is necessary to reduce the number of stamps and signatures: the so-called concerts produce damages greater than those that well represented Federico Fellini in his film "Prova d'orchestra". Until last Friday, the Ministers for Labour and Social Policy and Economic Development acted in areas which are well aware of the indispensability of this need to streamline procedures. As far as cultural heritage is concerned, it is true that they represent an important economic opportunity for the country, and it is true that Naples would improve its situation if Pompeii worked better and if the Palace of Caserta was not reduced almost to a ruin; but (and this you said and must do so) it is necessary to be able to involve the private economy, because alone the State does not have the means to bear such an important economic weight. In short, the FAI model (Italian Environment Fund) must be enhanced and increased, not only for niche activities, but for extensive and important activities. In addition, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind Minister Franceschini and you that tourism does not only need cultural heritage to be valued: the country must be efficient, the system must work, because our country is the most beautiful country in the world, but to return to being a great tourist destination it needs a specific policy in the field that has not been done so far. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u20	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u21	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly thanked the teachers. I would like him to join us in thanking the many people who work every day in the health and welfare of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and they do so in some cases under frankly worrying conditions. I agree with what you have said, namely that we must change, but I am even more in agreement with the idea that we must change not by preserving but by innovatory, and we need system innovation precisely in these areas. We are dealing not only with a National Health Service, but also with a right to health, which is the only right that the Constitution defines as fundamental, and with a definition of health, by the World Health Organization, as the physical and mental well-being of people. We must protect, but in order to protect we need to be aware of the changes that have taken place in the country and of the need for adaptation and modernisation, knowing however that Italian health care is a good health. Health is the lever of economic, social, institutional, cultural, and economic development: I am thinking about medicine, research, the fact that in Italy we are world leaders in the search for molecules, but we are almost a location for production. Secondly, it is enough with that common place of health as a waste, also because 30 billion cuts in health over the years put us below the European average for spending and investment in this sector. And then I think that we must move from the logic of linear cutting to that of the conversion of spending; in a word, as we told Commissioner Cottarelli, there is not a pin from here: every euro saved in health must return to increasing quantitatively and qualitatively the National Health Service. As far as social development is concerned, allow me to raise a very great alarm about non-self-sufficiency: when does a socio-health plan for these thousands and thousands of people who are really abandoned to themselves and cannot have the satisfaction of that minimum right to everyday life in the public or in the private? Thirdly, I would like to focus on institutional development and the reform of Title V of the Constitution. I believe that with all the good intentions of departure, we must say today, however, that health cannot be entrusted to 21 independent states that do not communicate with the State, with a State that does not communicate with them, beyond the State-Regions Conference. I believe that there is a serious theme; the diversity of models and ways of working is a wealth, but the difference is another thing, because the difference becomes inequality and, since I believe in equal opportunities, as a modern redefinition of the value of equality, I think that it cannot be the case, where one is born or lived, to decide whether a person is being treated well or badly. I believe that this is an issue that concerns the relationship with the territory, with innovative models that lead to savings, reinvestment and simplification. It takes even 50 months to define protocols on innovative drugs between the National Drug Agency and the Regional Agencies: 50 months for an innovative drug means that one, meanwhile, is dead. Then I think we should get a quick hand on this. As far as cultural development is concerned, I am convinced that even in health and welfare the standard of living is defined as a cross between material living conditions, income and ambitions on the autonomy of one's own life project, which is the great modern challenge of welfare. A welfare that accompanies us throughout life and can produce work and social quality, that can put resources on the Net and that takes care of the old and new poverty, that are not only material. In short, health and welfare are in the wake of development as freedom, to say so with Amartya Sen. This means that at least a part of this immense task - I hope - can be embraced by its Government, to which I am preparing to give confidence, convinced that there will be the promotion of human freedom at the centre. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u22	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u23	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Civic Choice for Italy can only welcome the birth of a Government that aims to change towards the economic situation, to the expectations of Italians about the prospects for economic recovery of their country, to the confidence of foreign operators in the solidity of its public budget, to the propensity of the best part of global entrepreneurship to displace here its industrial plans and its investments. We welcome it also because we know that without the daring act that we did a year ago, this government probably would not have been born, at least it would not have been born in this legislature. In fact, if on 24 February 2013, exactly a year ago, Chosen Civic had not asked the Italians for the vote as the only vote fully consistent with the European reform that our country urgently needs, today in its place, Mr President of the Council, would more likely have been for a year already the leader of the center-right, save personal impediments, or - in my opinion less likely - the leader of a coalition of center-left; in each of the two cases with a different majority, and above all with a vision of the near future of Italy and an idea of the path to be taken very different. The reforms we are talking about today are first and foremost those needed to drastically reduce the tax burden which is stifling our economy; they can be reduced by eliminating the enormous waste that is currently being spent on public spending, knowing that cutting waste means removing casts, promoting retraining and the mobility of employees. In this sense, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we are allowed to make a suggestion, we advise you not to believe, not to listen to anyone who will tell you that the alternative is to do the work of the head cutter, of the social butcher, or to leave everything still, to leave everything as it is for half a century: things are not so. The novelty of this Government must be to demonstrate - but not in words - that mobility, the flexibility of structures, including public structures, can be reconciled with the economic and professional security of those involved; provided, of course, that no one is allowed to decide which of their tasks to perform and which of them are not (I say this, in particular, with reference to part of the A.T.A. staff. of the school, which has established, motu proprio, that it is entrusted to third parties the function of cleaning the classrooms which instead is its own); provided that no one is allowed to refuse the necessary routes of redevelopment and mobility: within each structure, of course, but also between different administrations. This is already provided for in the law; there is no need for new laws: it is provided for in Article 33 of the Single Act on the rules on public employment of 2001; but since then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, not even one single case has been given for the activation of the mobility procedure. In a government administration that has 3.5 million employees, with a large amount of imbalances between uncoverings of staff and situations of obvious overstaffing, not just a mobility procedure over thirteen years! We ask - indeed, if we are allowed to do so, we demand - that the Government which you have led should stop this period of inadmissibly long disapplication of a state law as soon as possible. We must equip Italy with a system of public administrations that is primarily aimed at the service of the citizen and not primarily at the service of its employees. We must equip Italy with administrations that are not only concerned - they are not even concerned today - but also capable of minimising the cost, the effort, the thousand annoyances imposed on citizens who have to interact with them. This is why public managers need to be made responsible in relation to objectives of alignment with the best standards of quality of public services that are offered in the European panorama, rigorously applying the benchmarking technique. Incisive action is needed to finally start the progressive and drastic reduction of our public debt, for which we have committed ourselves to our European partners but, as you rightly said, we must consider ourselves committed above all and above all to our children. This is possible as well as with the primary surplus resulting from the resumption of economic growth, also through the valorization of the little or badly used part of the public heritage. I am referring not only to real estate, but also to securities, to the thousands of large and small companies controlled by the State or other territorial authorities for purposes of which no one controls the effective pursuit of the results. For this reason, too, a sclerotic labour market must be restarted in which the Employment Centres almost completely ignore the demand for existing labour and the employment crises are faced by putting the unemployed in the freezer for years, hiding the state of unemployment with a reckless use of the earnings fund. Today in Italy, while the unemployed remain so for years, basically abandoned to themselves, the businesses that are born and expanding do not find the workers they need. Unioncamere informs us that in every Italian Region tens of thousands of jobs remain uncovered due to the lack of people with the necessary skills and tens of thousands of small artisan enterprises close because of the reached age limits of their owners, who fail to transmit their professional heritage to the new generations. We have not heard any mention of this in your speech. We trust that it is only due to lack of time, just as we trust that it is only because of lack of time that in his speech we have heard only the very important measure of cutting the tax wedge on payrolls. On the other hand, there is no mention of the issues of the simplified labour code, the experimentation of the permanent employment contract with increasing protection, the Youth Guarantee programme for an effective fight against youth unemployment, whose implementation sees us seriously behind the terms of the European Union, the regional experimentation of the relocation contract. All these points are included in the programmatic document "Impegno Italia 2014" presented two weeks ago by the outgoing President of the Council. We are sure that on the basis of the programmatic arrangements on which this majority has been established in recent days you will want to reconfirm them. We should otherwise conclude that ideological incrustations and deaf resistances on this ground have not been overcome, which have severely curbed the action of the Led Government over the last year. Mr President, Civic Choice is, in the context of the majority that will support your Government, the political force by its very nature more in tune with the intentions of radical reformism that constitute the only justification and reason for being of this passage of deliveries. This is precisely why it will also be the strictest and most rigorous component in evaluating the work of this Government. It will be the watchdog that day by day will check that the season of the inconclusion of Italian politics really ends, that from the politics of words you finally move for real to the politics of the facts. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u24	Mr President-in-Office, welcome to Purgatory. Her desire for personal affirmation and her ambition made her abandon Paradise, the City of Florence, of which she was mayor: the most beautiful profession in the world, as she said several times. I also come from Florence but, unlike her, as a simple citizen, a citizen, however determined to save his city from the disaster: my beautiful Florence, where the craftsmen disappear and the traders close, where smog increases and where there are great works waiting for us such as the new runway of the airport, the waste-energy plant and the great risk of the underground crossing of the city. Here we are, you and I, in this House. I've been dating her for a few months, so I can tell her how things work. Listen to me, because even if I am his opponent, I am sincere, certainly more sincere than those who are ready to get on the victor's chariot. Maybe she and I want to break the game of the parties, the compromises, the tricks, the mafias and the omertas. Maybe we can't stand the unhealthy mixture of stupidity and violence that pollutes Italian things anymore. Italy is one of the most easily governable countries in the world: it has enormous capacity for adaptation and addiction, its patience and resignation seem inexhaustible. What seems ungovernable, however, is the very way of governing. And I have the impression, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you are well aware of what this ungovernability is about. In my brief parliamentary experience, what most dismays me is the doubleness between saying and doing, or rather, between saying and saying, that is between what is said outside, outside of this House, and what is said and then done when you are inside. Let me explain better: outside these doors I hear that a certain provision is useless; then inside the music changes and the majority inexplicably approves it. In this House I often hear about corruption, but it is spoken of as an abstract thing; it is even theorized that it serves to make the system work, as if corruption were not an enemy of the State, almost forgetting that a parallel and parasitic system compared to the State has a precise name: it is called a mafia. But let us go back to the two of us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You are here by virtue of the alliance pact that you have made with strong powers, a pact built with strategy, from Leopolda to Ferrari Festival (I remember it well). I'm here because at my age I'm still an idealist, hungry and crazy young man, to quote Steve Jobs. Many of those who support you in this House ask me why I chose to be in the 5 Star Movement. Now, after I have heard you, I can answer: because it is a movement of idealists like me and, when I say idealists, I mean people convinced that ideas make the difference, the difference between good and evil, between right and wrong, between honest and corrupt, people who don't want to repeat the script of "Il cattopardo" but really want to change things. For my part, I expect a passionate, critical, firm, honest opposition with only one objective: to monitor the choices that decide on the future of all of us and to denounce to the country everything that does not work. This is the mandate we have received from our constituents and this is what I personally commit to doing. Mr President-in-Office, welcome to Purgatory. I hope you enjoy your stay. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u25	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the written text of my speech which I would have liked to have spoken to the new government, but the time allowed for me is not enough for me to express myself and to make myself understood. May I, however, make a joke by Antonio Albanese that he himself borrowed from Giuseppe, from Volterra: In this country if you have, you have, if you haven't... oh! I add only one hashtag : "There is little to be serene." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u27	The Presidency shall authorise it to deposit the written text of its speech. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you come to the Senate to ask for confidence in a moment of great difficulty and trepidation for the future, not only of Italy but also of that great continent, ancient and ever new, which De Gasperi called Europe-Patria. You have devoted energy and ample space to this issue in your speech and this is a cause for great satisfaction. Precisely in the year in which the European elections will take place and the main institutions such as the Commission and the European Parliament will be renewed, in the year in which key strategies and programmes for relaunching an economy that is both intelligent, supportive and sustainable, such as the Europe 2020 programme, we see everywhere signs of progressive disenchantment, disamoration, growing scepticism about the fate, the role, the breadth of powers, the destiny of the European Union. populist, nationalist and hyper localist forces find objective convergence and interest in indicating in the European Union the cause of our difficulties rather than the way out. The rust of discord and mistrust is spreading in relations between the main countries of the Union and towards the European institutions. It has certainly contributed to this an excess of bureaucracy and regulatory hypertrophy on the part of the Community and the widespread feeling that Italy has not always been treated equally by our European partners. In particular, that what has been allowed to others (e.g. the overrun of the 3% limit in the deficit-to-GDP ratio) has instead been unreasonablely denied to us, despite the policies of rigour and the sacrifices that the Italian people have patiently submitted to. Yet, it doesn't make much sense to blame others for this situation, for the cynical and cheating destiny, and not even for the many prejudices that are often diffused in the European Chancellors towards our country. The cause of this unfavorable attitude lies in the unfortunately often well-founded judgment of the lack of political credibility of our governments, of instability, of incoherence between enthusiastically and uncritically Europeanist statements and concrete behavior. Suffice it to say that even today Italy still holds the little enviable record of the highest number of violations of the Treaty: there are over 100! Italy complains about a poor economic treatment, but then it proved incapable of spending well, and all, the funds that are allocated to it. How can we fail to think of the unacceptable situation of the structural funds, which have been dispersed and broken down into tens of thousands of small floods and used only in part? A great waste, also considering that Italy is a net contributor to Europe. The task that your Government is called to carry out is therefore to regain that credibility and respect without which no negotiation will be possible in terms of flexibility of the tight parameters that risk to tighten Italy in a shirt of suffocating force. It should also be noted that the last two governments that preceded his, in particular the Letta, worked with great awareness in this direction. Precisely the lack of authority and international consideration allowed Italy to be humiliated in the affair of our maròs in India, by the words of the Secretary General of the United Nations, in the Baptists case in Brazil. This does not happen anymore. There is, however, an even more difficult task ahead of you, Mr President. The European crisis - which is an economic crisis, of course, but also a crisis of identity, of self-confidence, of vision about the future - today requires Italy to have a capacity for initiative and strong leadership in the European assembly and that there be a counterbalancing of the countries of the Mediterranean and Latin area with respect to the overpower of the Nordic countries. Many countries look at what is happening in Italy with curiosity, others with high expectations. With that cheerful and sincere brazenness, as a genuine rebel (as you had the opportunity to remember last December 15 accepting the post of Secretary of the Democratic Party), and for which many of us esteem and support you, you announced that you had a healthy and immense ambition for the fate of our country. Well, even greater ambition is needed today, Mr President: the ambition to restore a soul and destiny to Europe and its inhabitants, whether they are third, second or even only first generation. May Italy and Europe rediscover together their journey, their vocation to be the most advanced terrain of civil and social conquests, the patricians of art and culture, the cathedrals, a model of tolerance, freedom and democracy among peoples so different and even so united. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cociancich, I invite you to conclude. COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, in this case I would ask the Presidency to give the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. COCIANCICH (PD). In conclusion, I would just like to remind you that, in the face of this great expectation, there are also many men and many women who come from countries on the shores of the Mediterranean. Some of them ended up at the bottom of the sea, others have sewn bowls. Out of respect for them, out of respect for us, out of respect for our fellow citizens, I hope that you will have the courage and boldness that you have shown in your speech today and that you will be able to achieve this great European dream. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Renzi, we have welcomed you and your team here today, which, at least in the photographic section, already leads to sympathy and optimism. We have also appreciated some of your choices, which have been made from the outset, such as streamlining and reducing the number of ministers, and not just for reasons of savings. We also appreciated the rejuvenation of your government team. Although I am not inclined to the rhetoric of youthism, I must say that the presence of many young people, prepared, enthusiastic and with a good curriculum will certainly give new motivations and new impetus to government action. His report also makes it clear that he is willing to pursue a political season that wants to strike a path with the past. And his programmatic statements seem to be marked by a clear desire to unravel in a decisive and fast way the many knots to be dissolved and to start the measures useful for the full implementation of the government program. Of course, it is an ambitious challenge that you are prepared to support, indeed, that we are prepared to support, because we in the New Right Centre feel absolutely forced, involved and involved in this project. The success of this challenge depends on the ability of this Executive to give certain and immediate answers, first of all to prevent the consumption of the social break that is dangerously incumbent on Italian society. We hope that this Government, President Renzi, will last for a long time, but not for a fact of survival of the species, but for the good of Italy. And this will clearly depend on the results and secondly on the ability of each of the components in support of the Government to give priority to the interests of all, rather than those of its own political side. In this logic it is clear that some of your statements, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, leave us a little perplexed: you have had the opportunity to say that this is the most left-wing government in the last 30 years. So, this is something that worries us, and we hope it's just a joke, as well as some beliefs about the assets of the new Minister Padoan, expressed in the past, or yesterday's release of Undersecretary Delrio on the taxation of BOTs. Clearly these statements concern us, and we hope that future plans will remain, applicable when the left will go to the government alone, because either sooner or later it will go there: it is a law of alternation (but I hope: as late as possible!). A clarification of this would also be helpful in the reply. We are in the government with the left because we believe that in this delicate and concise phase of the life of the nation the general interest, the common interest and the sense of responsibility must prevail over that of the party. Therefore, we do not find anything abnormal (in fact, it can be an opportunity for Italy, as Mrs Merkel's Germany teaches us) in a Government that is born out of necessity between two or more parties of different political groups, who have the precise duty, in clarity, transparency and with a strong pact of loyalty towards Italy, the Italians and Europe, to find points of convergence on the indifferent problems and on the real emergencies of our country: the work, the tax, the bureaucracy, the justice, the institutional reforms and, to follow, all the others. I assure you that it is difficult for me to list among the emergencies some issues that are spoken of with insistence, such as civil unions, homophobia, ius soli : themes for which it would probably be more prudent to wait. Instead, where we can no longer wait is in the sad history of our Maròs, to which the destiny of two men and their families is linked, but also the dignity and pride of our nation. Another question: his statements on the government's temporal perspective, which could coincide with the natural expiry of the legislature, lead us to think about electoral reform. In this connection, Mr Grasso, I would remind you that I urged you to leave the electoral reform at first reading in the Senate: you wanted to move it to the Chamber of Deputies in order to speed up its examination time but, if the results are these, you might as well have left it here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Mancuso, because the time at your disposal is about to end. MANCUSE (NCD). In any case, we certainly consider it vital, before returning to the vote, the approval of the electoral law, which can be docked and postponed with respect to the reform of the Senate, which is also considered necessary by us. We must certainly overcome the system of our bicameralism as conceived by our constituent Fathers. But let us make it quite clear that we find it absolutely questionable and unsatisfying in the terms in which you propose it. Congratulations and good work. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are talking about education, universities and research. As far as university and research are concerned, I have not heard anything relevant in your introductory report, and it is a very serious mistake. That is the only reason why you do not deserve the confidence of this House, Mr President. Let's talk about school time instead. Well, I have listened carefully to your speech: you see, Mr President, you are not credible, because you are part of a party that has had every opportunity to demonstrate what is to be done in this field and, on the other hand, has distinguished itself only by the absence of the necessary and courageous interventions in the school system and for real cuts at the bottom of university and public research institutions. Mr President, I now, rather than chatter, in the presence of this House and all the Italians, challenge you on two issues which will soon be before Parliament and which are both a symbol of the breakdown of education, for which your party is co-responsible and conniving. Firstly, there are precarious teachers: for years, thousands of teachers with annual contracts have been fired in June and summarized in September, in violation of a European directive. In addition to the courses and appeals that see the State promptly succumb, there are very high fines to be paid to Europe, Mr President. The 5 Star Movement has filed a motion to the Chamber of Deputies which commits the Government to adopt a five-year plan of recruitment that would restore dignity to the profession of teachers: yes, and not its empty words of introduction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Secondly, in the next few days the decree will come to this House on the salaries of school staff, which you, Mr President, are well aware of, having spoken about it when the case broke out in all its seriousness (a genuine papocchio caused by the government of your own party). Well, now the shots will be there, but you wondered at what price? At the price of cutting the mountain of the training offer and the school fund: in this way thousands of students will find themselves without recovery courses or additional didactic projects. Have the courage, Mr President, to accept the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement in the Commission and in the House, by shifting the coverage of the decree from resources outside the budget of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u33	Conclude, Senator Bocchino.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u34	BOCCHINO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. Accept these challenges, if you dare. Instead of the chatter we've heard from you and your party so far, you show that you've really understood what the country's real priorities are. Good luck! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, having only a few minutes at my disposal for this speech, I will concentrate on one aspect of your programme: taxes. You have completely neglected this subject - uncomfortable, of course - while I will try to flush it out, forcing it to say something concrete, so that those who listen to us can understand the ideas of your Government. Let's start with the assets. Personally, I recall that during the primary campaign, you argued that, in your opinion, the assets in Italy could only be made when the State first made them with itself and, therefore, after privatising, liberalising and reducing public expenditure. I got restless last week when the President of the Bundesbank had suggested to the Italian Government the asset as minor damage and Fabrizio Barca - who, according to the interested party, you would have wanted in the Ministerial Cabinet - in the arcinota telephone interview stated that he would want to make in our country an asset of 400 billion. Personally, I consider it irresponsible to propose a capital tax as long as in our country it is still possible that the ASL of a given region pays a tibial insert 199 euros and another 2,479 euros, with a difference of 1.145 percent, and until, since the beginning of the crisis, more than 1 million jobs have been lost in the private sector, while the public employment has not dropped even one unit. I remember - for example - that in the justice fund, in charge of collecting the assets confiscated from the mafia, they lie unused - as reported by the former Deputy Minister Casero and denounced by Gian Antonio Stella on the "Corriere della Sera" - 978 million liquid resources, 2.1 billion non-liquid resources and about 30 billion euros between companies and real estate. With that money, Mr President-in-Office, do you know how many kindergartens, schools, roads and embankments are settled without having to resort to new taxes? For these reasons I say that this state, wasteful and inefficient, has no moral reason to put its hands further in the pockets of the Italians. I was even more concerned by the statements made by Filippo Taddei, economic manager of the Democratic Party, who announced last week that his Government intends to remodulate the financial incomes, and those of Bonanni, who called for a beating on the rent. Yesterday we listened to the reckless statements of the undersecretary Delrio, guest of Lucia Annunziata's television program, according to which if an elderly lady who has saved 100,000 euros in BOT are taken away 25 or 30 euros, no health problems are created. It seems to me that undersecretary Delrio does not know the matter well. Let's try to sum up some data. Today a availability of Bot of 100,000 euros with annual maturity purchased on 21 February last with an annual rate of 0.62 percent guarantees to the holder an annual gross yield of 620 euros. To this amount must be deducted on average 300 euros for purchase fees, 15 euros of custody expenses, 200 euros of stamp; 34,20 euros for stamp tax on the account and current 77,50 euros for withholding at the source of 12.5%. Already today, therefore, the old lady's income is negative for 7 euros. If we deducted from this amount the 30-50 euros of Delrio's proposal, the yield would fall to a negative value of 37 or 57 euros. If you consider inflation, which ISTAT calculated to be 0.66 percent annually, the Bot in question is a very negative return: you might as well not lend the money to the state and keep it under the mattress! Then tell me how fair it will never be to hit the savings of the elderly who have worked for a lifetime to ensure a decent old age, against often completely inadequate pensions. Moreover, if the Undersecretary Delrio referred not to a return but to a threshold, then evidently he thought - without saying it - of an asset. It seems to me, therefore, that there is great confusion in your Government! Today we are also talking about a project of yours to increase the tax rate on interest on government bonds. I hope it's another boutade! It is quite clear that increasing taxation on the interest of government bonds is for the State a round because, if it collects more interest taxes, it actually pays more in absolute terms to customers who must be remunerated. The increase in taxation on government bonds also has as a side effect an inevitable outsourcing of the debt, which would be increasingly acquired by foreign operators who enjoy a tax of greater favor in the countries of origin than the Italian families and operators. It is clear that this would be a problem for the country, which would end up, even more than today, in the hands of foreign creditors. That's exactly what happened to Argentina before the default. On the other hand, if current account taxation were to increase, the cost of bank collection would inevitably rise, and credit institutions, in order to balance accounts, should in turn increase interest on loans and loans to customers. The recessionary effect on the economy would be inevitable and, given the times that run, there is no need for it. Only capital gain taxation remains. I would, however, like to remind you that the Italian financial market is already penalized by taxation that is not equal in Europe and, perhaps, in the world. Italy is one of the few countries that applies the Tobin tax, which so far has produced only failures and a completely ridiculous revenue compared to expectations. It is therefore no coincidence that the Italian Stock Exchange continues to lose positions in the rankings of the major financial markets on the planet. From my estimates, taking into account historical developments, the increase in the rate of taxation on capital gain up to 25% would, at most, result in higher revenue of EUR 600 million per year: however, uncertain revenue, as linked to the stock exchange cycle, particularly favourable over the last year but not necessarily repeatable. Is the Italian financial system, which is already agonizing, worth breaking down completely in order to achieve such a modest result, which does not even cover part of the tax wedge reduction project? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you look at the question of the taxation of pensions in technical terms, free from demagogies and ideological prejudices, you must inevitably conclude that in this area too, by increasing taxes, a depressive effect of the real economy is created and private savings, a real engine of development, protected, among other things, by Article 47 of the Constitution. There is certainly no fairness in your proposals, but only a further vexation of the middle class, already tarnished by a thousand leaps. For these and other considerations expressed by my colleagues in the Group, the advance, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I will not vote for confidence. On economic issues I invite you to prove that you are a true statesman, and not the Bomb who remember your high school companions! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u37	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u38	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the confidence you are asking of this House will not be worth enough if we are not able, together, to regain the confidence and will of those who are out of here, of a country that has been waiting too long for answers. There is a thread that has broken between politics, institutions and citizens, and it is up to us to reconnect it. If many people no longer trust democracy, Parliament and the Government, it is because they feel betrayed and humiliated. How is it possible, moreover, that Italy, which has by its enormous potential, is now a blocked country, prevented from redistributing wealth and opportunity, where children have a worse future than that of fathers; where there is an impressive number of discouraged children who stop studying and looking for work and who at 20 years experience the frustration of not being able to demonstrate the value and talent they have? How much does all this weigh on our gross domestic product, on our competitiveness, on the credibility of our democracy? It is a burden no longer bearable. When you are forced to close a business, when you lose your job (it can happen at 30 years, or - even worse - at 50 or 60 years old) and you still do not have the requirements for the integration fund or mobility, when you switch from one precarious job to another without any protection if you get sick or if you expect a child, then that's when you trust it is an empty word. It happens to be said by those who are weaker, by those to whom the crisis has taken away income, opportunities and certainties, that now enough is enough with politics, now we have to vote against politics. I have heard this cry, Mr President. I come from a manufacturing territory of artisans who every day fight to go on, who in a product put all the beauty and culture of their land: I have often listened to this phrase in the sheds and workshops. That is the confidence that we must regain. In order to do so, politics must change itself, become authoritative, autonomous and capable of making decisions, and not to indulge in choices made elsewhere, and to give a concrete voice to those who do not have them. That is why today we need a government that is fully political, because institutional and social crises are one and so we need profound reforms that rewrite the identity card of our country. The Government that is born today must have this ambition and the strength to make the present one a constituent legislature: not the last of a second Republic failure, but the first of the third. The Senate will have to play its part, rethinking itself as a conjunction between the authorities of the territorial communities and the construction of a stronger European governance. This will serve to overcome the bicameralism of equality: to give greater effectiveness and legitimacy to the parliamentary institutions. The reform of the Senate is the crossroads on which the destinies of electoral law and the rewriting of Title V of the Constitution will depend. But we will not find the trust that has been lost if the institutional reforms are not accompanied by radical social reforms, which are capable of promoting inclusion and citizenship, which put the work to be created, the rights to be defended and industrial policies to focus on quality and technology. Then we need a national plan against new poverty to fill the holes of our welfare and give back hope and opportunity to those who want to leave. It will have to be months of change for the European Union, and much will depend on us and on our ability to be protagonists and not condescending spectators. If we have the strength to relaunch the social and solidarity nature that has made the European model a strong and successful system, we will be able to do so. Expanding policies will be needed, and every euro recovered will need to be used not for an unimportant reduction in debt but to invest in employment, infrastructure, right to study and common goods, as everywhere in the world has done to defeat the crisis. Have the strength of this Government to wage an open-faced battle in Europe to put aside austerity and the dogma of budget balance, to renegotiate the relationship between growth and rigour and, therefore, the ceiling of 3%. This is the political mission of a new generation today to be tested. It will soon have to lead the European Semester and show that only a new Europeanism will be able to relaunch the Union, make it the protagonist in the face of new international challenges: a generation to which the registry is not enough, nor the ambition to govern, but which will be judged for the ability to leave a sign of structural change; for the ability to share with a lost and disoriented society a vision, the sense of a path that defeats selfishness and cynicism, fueled by crisis and fear. The idea that you can save yourself is the background of corruption, tax evasion, civil decay. Today, Mr President, we need to make a new republican pact and the trust we give them is the most precious asset we have, because it is what keeps our community together. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Senator Berger groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u39	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr Renzi, I had prepared my speech on the basis of some of your statements from the last few days but, after hearing your speech today, I found new ideas. You are talking about citizens who are waiting for answers. Where were you when we asked your party in this House? We asked them every day, because we are ordinary citizens: we are not chaste and we do not want to become chaste. As one colleague has already said, every day we ask his majority not to take away money from the public school in favour of the private school, because the school is a fundamental point for the development of a country. We are constantly calling for the abolition of the Fornero law for citizens, for the exodus you have forgotten. You say you want to abolish the Senate, and you started your speech with the phrase: I'm not old. I conclude: "Words, words, words, only words." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u41	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, welcome to the Senate. After the song quote from Mr Bottici, but above all after his start in this request for trust today in the Senate, absolutely irritating, different from other occasions, I note that you could have presented here in the Senate of the documented chapters, you could have spoken in a specific way about several topics, but you preferred to give indications, guidelines on which your Government will move once you have gained confidence in the two branches of Parliament. I must tell you that, in the thirteen speeches by my previous colleagues, I note a coincidence: in none of them I have found the word 'South' or 'Half-day'. I did not find in your speech a moment in which you address your thoughts to that geographical part of the country, but not because the principles to which you intend to inform your government action cannot understand the problems of the whole national territory. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will not miss the fact that the problems, anxieties and concerns of mothers, children, students, unemployed people, those who have lost their jobs are present throughout the national territory, wherever they consume themselves: but in that part of the country they create a greater anguish. It is true that fever or flu affects anyone in the same way but, when it meets a debilitated body, it has worse consequences than those that occur in a more robust body, which can react better. Of course, out of respect for your ability to go arm-to-arm - do not consider it a disrespect - I too will not read a written speech. I therefore hope that this faculty and this capacity to dialogue can be extended over time, without starting from previously written positions or speeches, on either side. I thought he would come and say something that I would very much like here today. I would have liked it very much, in fact, if he had remembered Giorgio La Pira, the holy mayor, born in Pozzallo, in the province of Ragusa, my province. I have been president of that land for two terms and I understand and appreciate your dialogue, almost as if you were addressing the council of a local authority: perhaps we should also recover this in our attitudes. Giorgio La Pira said that the Mediterranean dreamed of it as a large square, in which all the peoples who looked out there spoke with each other. This was a dream and a utopia, but it was also an economic project, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Take this as a starting point: you will be chairing the Council of the European Union from 1 July. We have begun to think, in this branch of Parliament, in the 14th Commission, of a Europe that looks at the Mediterranean as the driving force behind the European economy. And then, as far as Italy is concerned, why give up the leadership role in our Mediterranean? Could we not be the place where the young people of the Maghreb area, the young people who have attempted the Arab revolution, can come to form themselves, through a Mediterranean Erasmus, in our universities, thus giving life to the universities of the South and hope to the new generations around the Mediterranean who consume their lives? Only in this way can we have a future of development and peace: building it. Let me say, Mr President-in-Office, that the Italian future is a Mediterranean future and so is the European future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Sensor Mauro. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). In this absurd struggle of Germany to conquer the European markets, the African continent has been left to the economic dispute between the United States and China, rather than making Europe recite a central role of aggression, so to speak, of that economic market. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I conclude with this consideration, and I would add that we will not vote on your confidence today, not least because we have not been able to understand your Government's actions in a specific and detailed way. However, we have a great deal of willingness to cooperate with the measures that we intend to take in the interest of Italy, of Italians and - let me also be a little bell tower - of our Southern Italy, of our Sicily. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Villari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u44	Mr President, Mayor, if I were to reply to your contents, remove the demagogic promises, I would have to shut up, because you didn't say anything. He talked a lot, but he didn't say anything, so I'd have to replicate with the void. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Anyway, I still want to say something to her. For example, I would like you to continue and not leave your job in half when you run for office and make a commitment to do something. Otherwise, you might want to run for mayor directly. Do you share? I hope so, because you said so. He said it, but he didn't. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Another thing: on January 29 of this year he said that Italians do not eat with electoral law. I believe it. What Italians? Who Italians, (to use his own expression)? She said on January 12, 2011: "I'm with Marchionne, without if and without but". So, we figured out who he's with: certainly not with people having trouble getting to the end of the month, but with people taking 47 million a year (47 million euros, not lire). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You see, you can already tell from the small things why you don't have to trust a person like you, let alone the big ones. Small things like his statement of February 9, 2014: "I don't want to go to the government without going to the popular vote." Letta thanks, also for the posthumous quotation she made in the previous speech. I think I see Brutus and Cassius. You know where Dante Alighieri put them, don't you? In the lowest place in hell, the worst. So more than talking about Purgatory, as Mr Romani said earlier, I would have another place, as well as Dante Alighieri, who is a little better than me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u45	I invite you to conclude, Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u46	MARTELLI (M5S). As far as his idea of a state is concerned, it makes us shiver that he said that the privatization of water is necessary, even if 27 million people said no (I repeat: 27 million). You said: "Without prejudice to acquired rights" (you said so before), but on 27 February 2012 you also said: Article 18 does not give a damn about less. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You don't tell me me! In addition, you said you talk to the teachers: you should know that at 12 you are not in elementary school, but in middle school, since you talk to the teachers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] He also said, and this is very serious, that he is in favour of incinerators, because they are all over Europe and do not cause cancer. Liar: they do it, come. In fact, 5 kilometers from the incinerators it is forbidden to grow, and insurance increases their premiums as you approach the fireplace: and insurers look well at the money. So, before we say these falsehoods, with piles of university studies, we should think about it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u48	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ennio Flaiano used to say that the situation is serious but not serious. Flaiano was referring to that peculiar trait of our people who take themselves seriously without taking seriously the things they do; but Italians also know how to relax and, at the right time, wake up from the worst nightmares. Ella doesn't know how much I'd like her to be like that again. I really wish the situation was serious but not serious. His ministry has no parliamentary bases and political coalition other than the previous one; he has suffered terrible vetoes on the compages, of which the one on the name of Nicola Gratteri is the most evident and painful. We will vote for her trust: ours is a parliamentary act of responsibility; it is a programmatic spur, not a sign of an unconditional political plunder or a blank delegation. We believe that you should take on certain specific elements without the attention to which you would not only lose your support, but will renounce the trust and appreciation of millions of citizens who have believed in you. First of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Mr Guidi sits next to you, whose family business is a hard-working favourite of relocations. Minister Guidi will have to handle important corporate crises, starting with Electrolux: what will she do? Is there a way, in your opinion, of not exposing our country to the blackmail of relocations? Is there a European forum to discuss this issue? Coming more generally to the subject of work, we must think of both unemployment and employment without rights. Does it seem tolerable that a young woman of 31 years with a master's degree, specialization courses and many years of experience, should work for cooperatives at 6 or 7 euro per hour and with a contract that does not provide for the payment of the thirteenth, the holidays and the treatment of the end of the relationship? What kind of family can this young woman build herself? Secondly, she will have to show that renunciation of Nicola Gratteri does not mean neglecting the fight against organised crime, reforms related to the regime of the prescription of crimes and other instruments of law enforcement of mafias. Thirdly, she must not renounce the introduction of the announced reforms on civil rights such as equality of the rights of homosexual couples and the principle of ius solo. On the rights of homosexual couples you have invited us to compromise but, if the compromise is with those who are programmatically opposed, we are not. We will work to ensure that, as with divorce, parliamentary majorities on civil rights can be free, broad and cross-cutting. As a fourth example, I come to tax evasion: it is absolutely necessary to bring to a successful and timely conclusion the agreements with Switzerland for the return of illegally exported capital, also introducing the crime of self-money laundering. It is also necessary that the tax evaded, for which the establishment of the Agency of revenue has already taken place, is actually collected, otherwise the act of combating evasion will appear completely in vain. Last but not least, you're not mistaken for public executives. Change the high bureaucrats, change those men-herders between politics and the apparatuses, who know it long and who are not impressed by anything, hardened by cynicism and skilled in the game of quibbles. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u49	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have no good news to add to your report: the Government that will take place between today and tomorrow has the objective of reaching the port at the end of its term of office in 2018. I would add to the remarks you have made in these days, and especially in this House, a banality: that of sailing in very difficult years. To the difficulties you have mentioned, I add an objective consideration that concerns all European countries, and Italy more than others: voidness of sovereignty, economic weakness, social fragility. This is the basket of everyday knots. I also know that from now to 2015 there will be three important electoral appointments: immediately the local and European elections and next year an important turn that concerns the regionals in Italy. I remember that because the knots of the skein to be dissolved are also added electoral appointments and, if the majorities that are born are not cohesive and do not have an objective and a goal immediately verifiable, electoral appointments do not always bring good. In order to dissolve the skein, I do not see three roads, but only two: either the government that you chair becomes to all intents and purposes an Executive with an incisive political cut, or makes a legislative pact in front of the Italians and becomes a Service Executive. As a master dear to you, Tertium non datur: either a political government, as you have mentioned, or otherwise a government that, to close the legislature, makes a pact with the Italians and becomes a Service Executive. Of course, they're not the same thing. I also know that with oppositions we discuss the rules of the game, but we do not agree the decrees-laws. As for the rules of the game, I imagine that the revision of the Charter will be much wider than it appears. You have incardinated this path in a framework that I share, when you claimed, in front of the Senate of the Republic, that the electoral law is reformable and must be linked and inserted in a political-institutional framework that covers the work on the Charter. I would add that the transformation of the Senate, in addition to breaking the harmony and a certain procedural slowness, which is the one linked to the perfect bicameralism foreseen by the constituents, I fear that it will also oblige the restoration of other constitutional norms. I quote three: those defining who appoints and how to appoint the Supreme Council of the judiciary; those determining who appoints and how to appoint the Constitutional Court; those relating to how to elect the Head of State. If you change the cards, you also have to answer these questions. I agree entirely with you on one point, which I find decisive: if we have to implant and share this path, predisposing a form of bipolarism that has European characteristics also in Italy, the first thing to do is to close the twenty years of poisons and factions. Democracy is only healthy if it comes out of the logic of the medieval Italian consorteries; otherwise, the political antagonist remains an enemy and is not an opponent. If the antagonist remains an enemy, there is no certainty of a frontier: there is certainty of a border, and the borders, as such, defend themselves, while the borders are made to be crossed. That's the only way I think a bipolar system grows. In France, the right doesn't use Le Pen against Hollande. When we stop looking for the cover of the "grillini" to attack the Colle, that will be a beautiful day, which will see the birth and transformation of the border at the border. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]] Today we will give confidence to a European government. In the meantime, it is good that the leader of the major party leads him: it is the return to the golden rule of politics, and this return does not spoil. I belong to the category of people who think so. Yesterday, Mr President, you mentioned Bobbio's lesson in an important newspaper: equality and not egalitarianism. It is the border line that has divided, for over a century, liberal and democratic socialism from communist history. Right and left still exist today: indeed they exist! Despite the "Passera pensiera" they do exist, indeed. Rarely have I discovered and have seen technical and political get along; Karl Marx is proof of this, who lost the little money his friend Engels gave him, and of course lost them by playing in the stock market. But within the borders of the left, within the borders of the reformism of the Italian and European left, merit, security and freedom must be lodged alongside the innovation that you often recall: values that stand on the left as hierarchy, closure, annuity, conservation are on the right. It is up to politics, Mr President - and I am happy to conclude this - to get their hands dirty. The government that you chair, even if it is not born from the vote, is not forbidden to take radical reformism measures. If there are 4 million poor people there, we have to intervene; if the middle class runs out in the last week of the month, we have to intervene there; if the tax evasion from the lack of receipt is 5% and that of the big societies is 35%, there we have to intervene; if 10% of the Italian families have 48 percent of the wealth in hand, and much of this wealth is the daughter of the income, there is the duty to intervene. It is the fight against inequalities, the creation of wealth and new rules for finance that this Government is committed to deciding on. I hope Minister Alfano will wear Cameron's shoes for one day. It is not enough to quote: words are stones; in our parts it is said that they are stones. If Alfano were to wear Cameron's shoes one day, then we could also freely discuss civil rights in an open and serene manner. Civil rights are father, mother and child of social rights. Without fundamental civil rights, social rights do not march; societies are more unequal if there is no sum of social and civil rights. The dear friend - I was going to say comrade, and I apologize for the thought - Alfano could for one day dress up as the British Prime Minister. One last issue: the European Presidency. It is not my job - you have a very good Minister for Economic Affairs next to you, and I do not want to suggest it - but, among the pages which I have occasionally read, I have also found some news that we often forget: how many times Germany has gone over the key points of the Maastricht criteria. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo, Bravo! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group).]] An enormity. From 2002 to 2008, only Belgium complied with the budgetary benchmark. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Compared to the other Maastricht parameter, I find that only Finland has complied with it. I wish you, as a lay sinner, who made you a dear common friend, Professor Cardini: that Our Lady of the Impruneta assists you. It comes from a sinner, and he can trust it. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u51	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish I could be as ironic as on other occasions, but I cannot do it today. I can't do it, because as a citizen, I'm just dismayed and outraged. Fill your mouth with words that you are partakers of the sufferings of our people. Ironized, as the Undersecretary Delrio did, on 30 euros of new, additional taxes on the labors of a life of savings. You speak as reckless and reckless, because you cannot understand what the daily hell of a normal Italian citizen is. You can't even imagine the fear painted in the eyes of entrepreneurs and workers struggling to get to the end of the month. You, future President Renzi, cannot be aware of this: you who, since 1996, have done nothing but politics, who has been appointed manager of the family business and has never really worked in your life! She who looks so young at 39 years of age, while she is nothing more than a splash of perfume to cover the thunder of the old system! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Believe me: the greatest professional pitcher, evader and corruptor of minors for hobby, we have already had it in the government for more than 12 years! D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). That's enough! TAVERNA (M5S). We recognize you at first sight. After all, Berlusconi has never failed to remember publicly that she carries out her own ideas under the banners of the PD. As his mentor, we understand that she aspires to become the student who surpasses the teacher: but not at the expense of the Italians! We can't do this anymore. Let's have it. It cannot be understood by its ministers, no longer as an emergency - an executive no longer political, but as a legislature - also because they did not realize it even before. In the face of discontinuity: at the Interior Alfano gives way to Alfano; at the Health Lorenzin replaces Lorenzin; at the Infrastructures Lupi gives way to Lupi. Orlando changes chair and passes to Justice, as Delrio becomes Undersecretary to the Presidency. Not to mention Franceschini, whom you called "vice-disaster" a few years ago: now you will have the task of protecting our cultural heritage. Thank you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we add an iron recommendation like the Madia, known for being one of the ignorant who in 2009 allowed the shame of the fiscal shield, we can really sleep quietly! You come in here today with a smile and smirk for investiture as President of the Council with the arrogance and arrogance of those who cashed a lucky roulette to the political casino: but in the name of whom or what does this country want to govern, President? Do you want us to believe that it is enough to self-legitimacy with the informal preferences of PD sympathizers, expressed in addition to choosing a secretary, or that 136 votes are sufficient in the secret rooms of a party condominium assembly? We tell him: no, it's not enough. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The only coherent and honest choice would be to get back to the voters' judgment; but this is not in your plans, nor in the interests of those who really line up behind his jokes and his smile. You are by no means the honest and exuberant mayor who wants you to believe. Why don't you tell us who the puppet masters are? [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Just a few days ago, speaking of the government, he had cleared the matter with a "but who makes us do it?" [[Protests from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] Well, today we know the answer, at least partial: Carlo De Benedetti, card No. 1 of the PD, certainly one of the top Italian experts in scraping, being the demolisher of an Italian jewel like Olivetti. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who paid for your campaign in primary school, President Renzi? Do you really think that the Italian people are so naive as to drink the story of the local market, that they do not know about their dinners behind closed doors with the sharks of the real markets that interest them, that is, the financial ones, or its benevolent investiture by the troika and the speculative banks that led us to the brink of catastrophe? By now only those who consciously choose not to know can ignore the evidence of the facts. I appeal not to you either, but to my colleagues in the Democratic Party. Gentlemen, you who threw your old secretary Bersani in a flash, you who defenested Enrico Letta with a ease worthy of the best transformers, you who, instead of spotting the jaguar, repainted the Gattopard, for once do the right thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Have the dignity and courage to cut off the umbilical cord from a presidential monarch who betrayed the Constitution, to break the chains of slavery of lobbyists and big entrepreneurs who have already abandoned the country to himself. Look in the mirror before you make this vow: this is the last chance you have to redeem yourselves, to return to walk with your head high. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CIRINNA' (PD). Think for yourself! Mr Fornaro (PD). We're not at the bar. We're in the Senate. TAVERNA (M5S). Vote no! Return the word to the only legitimate authority left: the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations. [[Ironic applause and lively comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u53	There is the power to intervene and answer. You're registered to speak as well. Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u54	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this Government is born as a result of a conspiracy of palace. This Government was born essentially following the failure of the Letta Government, a failure denounced by all social forces, trade unions, Confindustria and all political forces, from Forza Italia to the Democratic Party itself by the mouth of its secretary. In normal times, even the Letta Government could have continued its quiet navigation, but these, like you, President of the Council, today has remembered, are not normal times. This is the time for a dramatic crisis; it is the time for a serious social suffering and the despair of so many people. This economic crisis could no longer tolerate a Government of small cabotage - because this was the case - but it needed a radical change, a different conscience. Of course, the Italian vote would have given more strength and legitimacy to a new government of political turn, but the times of the crisis do not follow the times of politics. Hence the need for a new government, presided over by the Secretary of the Democratic Party, to which we, all of us (I am convinced of it), although according to the opposition, look, like all Italians, with hope, at a possibility of change before the umpteenth failure of politics. These, after all, were the reasons why President Berlusconi had made possible the birth of a Government of broad understanding chaired by Enrico Letta. But Letta failed. He failed because from the beginning he made the grave mistake of disowning the role of a political leader like Silvio Berlusconi in the birth of his government. In fact, Letta did not hesitate a moment to take advantage of the confrontation that had opened inside the People of Liberty to aim for a split that was then manifested in the birth of the New Right Center. The courageous negotiation between Renzi and Berlusconi on institutional reforms has then brought to light the greedy attitude of Letta, who had also received the confidence of President Berlusconi. But the greater responsibilities for the failure of the Letta Government concern the economy and on this the clearer and more definitive word has pronounced it the Court of Auditors, that a few days ago has declared the failure of a law of stability that has not helped the economic recovery but, on the contrary, has increased the public expenditure, worsening the recession in which we had crashed with the Monti Government. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are well aware that today you must move from words to deeds and that is the most difficult challenge. The whole country is looking at it with a mixture of fear and hope; I too, and I try to make hope prevail. For this reason, if you propose good things, we, even though we are in opposition, will support them. If instead it continues on the old road, we will not hesitate to tell the Italians with the firmness due to a country that cannot be betrayed in the hope of a change that everyone feels as necessary before the catastrophe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, don't forget your weak points, because there are: the first is the same majority that supported the previous government, the second is the small parties that will assert their poor shop interests. Don't underestimate them. President Renzi, I should like to end by wishing you a good job. I sincerely hope you will succeed and I repeat that we, for the reforms that are really useful for the country, will be there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr Renzi, in order to reduce the huge public debt we need a lot of money and to do this you plan to sell shares of companies of the participating companies of the State in accordance with the big finance, from Saccomanni to Padoan. But what's the problem? The problem is that with the sale of the various ENI, ENEL, ENAV, Poste Italiane and more you could reach only about 12 billion euros. Too little. Mr President, you say, together with Mr Berlusconi, that we must quickly change Title V of the Constitution. We wonder what you have in common. Perhaps Lorenzo Codogno, head of the Directorate for Economic and Financial Analysis of the Treasury Department and interested in the new six billion-year-old carriage called the Parliamentary Budget Office, who candidly asserts that the pulp is located elsewhere, precisely in the municipal utilities: water management, electricity, gas, transport etc., all at local level [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are really many, many billions there, but they are not of the State and therefore it is necessary to quickly modify the Title V of the Constitution in order to expropriate the Municipalities and the Regions. In a nutshell, are you preparing for the due diligence assault? Someone in some secret room is planning on getting us sprinkled? By whom? In the near future mayors will have to take intensive courses in Chinese, Arabic, or what other language? President, can you please deny this and reassure us, even if you are not old? Or let Mr. De Benedetti reassure us that he has an age. And not just that! Do you ask us for trust today? The 5 Star Movement prefers to give trust to citizens, those who do not call themselves Marchionne of surname, without if and without but. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u57	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u58	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make my contribution on the priority of your programme: work. Work is our country's priority because Italy must emerge from the economic crisis. I agree with you: economy and work go together. Italy must grow and there can be no growth without work. We need to make our system competitive and innovative in order to create jobs. Support companies that make innovation and investment. This is why we need to address Italy's structural weaknesses with courage and determination. We agree with you: lowering the tax wedge is our priority. We also need to increase investment in research and development, which is totally inadequate in relation to the challenges ahead. It is all right to loosen the burden of bureaucracy and think about its actual modernisation. Three examples: if in Italy you want to open a new activity you have to fill about forty modules, forty-seven working days lost, and to leave with a new enterprise can spend two hundred and eighty days of average, that is between ninety days and four years; we have spent millions of euros on the digitisation of the public administration and its networking and the systems do not talk to each other; there is not yet a single and adequate database throughout the national territory of meeting between demand and supply of work, despite the numerous resources spent in these years. We need to increase the participation of women in the labour market, especially of girls in the South, and to implement a real digital agenda, as Europe 20-20 asks us. The five billions of the Stability Pact should be unblocked in Europe (and the European Semester can be a formidable occasion) to invest in our municipalities: not only because we estimate the creation of 85,000 jobs, but because more and more the success of the development challenges, in a globalised world, passes through the liveliness and capacity for innovation of local communities. A positive social climate must be animated. I greatly appreciated the very first statements by the Minister for Labour, Mr Poletti, when he spoke of the necessary cooperation, as well as with Parliament, with the social partners. The union, the enterprises, the social representations, can and must contribute to overcoming the delays of our system Country, as has already happened in other historical moments, and to making development, social cohesion, growth. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we need to take immediate care of people's working lives, guaranteeing equal opportunities for access (to job seekers, those who lose it, those who have to access social shock absorbers, those who have to retire), and to ensure that everyone can best express their skills, as a great master of our time says, Amartya Sen. If we do not do this, in fact, we increase inequality. His party, President-in-Office of the Council, will support it in the innovation it wants to bring; one of these is to keep active and passive labour policies together, because on this we have a chronic Italian backwardness. A tool can be the creation of a National Employment Agency, as in most European countries: shared by regions and social partners, in synergy with INPS and private individuals, for taking collective responsibility. For this reason, it is necessary to have a political and institutional climate of strong responsibility and collaboration between the State and the Regions, even by reviewing Title V of the Constitution, without a bureaucratic approach to the issue, but with a constant question in the heart: where do they go and what do they find a girl or a boy looking for work? Or who loses it? They must find a single place to be welcomed and accompanied. One thing you can unlock right away. It is not possible, for example, that the European project, with resources available, Youth Guarantee in Italy still lags behind its implementation because of a structural lack of the employment services system. We must avoid, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dissipation and dispersal of resources because of the lack of a coherent system of supply and demand for work, guidance and vocational training. On this last point it is important to follow the OECD recommendation to Italy and Portugal to reform vocational education. Another innovation is a universal cheque, strengthening ASPI and mini-ASPI with financial coverage that does not affect the cost of labour; but we will discuss this in March, with the Government together with Parliament. In these months, like so many of us, I have faced many citizens and citizens, each with a working story to tell: there is much disillusionment. That is why trust in your Government: the words of politics, through your programme, President-in-Office of the Council, must resume their sense, reach citizens and citizens as full of content, truth, reality and future building. We all bear the responsibility for the good of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u59	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and President of the Government, the government crisis that led to the formation of a new Executive chaired by Matteo Renzi has been consumed under the perplexed eyes of the country. The reasons for this move remain the most mysterious, although there is great expectation for the work of the new young President of the Council. As far as I am concerned, faithful, as always, to my principles, today I will not give confidence to the Government: I think this phase has begun in the wrong way. The agreement with Berlusconi is the necessary advance of what we are witnessing. The electoral reform agreed with him reproposes the defects of the Porcellum, with in addition an abnormal barrier threshold that subverts every principle of representation. It risks generalizing what happened in Sardinia, where a force that collected 10% of the votes failed to elect any representative to the regional council. At a time when there is great distrust of political forces and institutions, removing spaces of democratic expression, including through a healthy and constitutive online dialogue, is a profoundly wrong choice. In any case, it will be above all at the level of economic policies that the new Executive will be judged. Of course, as a representative of the institutions, I hope that initiatives to promote employment and boost productive activities will be successful. Preventive rejection and demagogy are the opposite of a credible opposition. Their only commitment seems to be to instruct processes against people whose seriousness and honesty is known to all. If, therefore, the measures of the new Government prove effective, I will be the first to rejoice and I will not hesitate to support them in Parliament. In a recent article in the New York Times, Romano Prodi hoped that Ukraine would become a bridge between Europe and Russia and invited the conflicting parties to seek the path of compromise and conciliation. I cannot say whether the events of these days are going in this direction and are not the prelude to a new dispute in the heart of Europe. However, I hope that the wise words of Romano Prodi inspire the entire foreign policy of the new Government and that Italy will always and everywhere promote peace. Only in the field of peace and dialogue, in fact, the extraordinary qualities of our people can hope to be recognized and appreciated in the world. Only in the field of peace can we hope to build another Italy, another Europe. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u62	Mr President, this government for which trust is being demanded today is the worst expression of a political class that is now in disarray, ready to betray even its friends and ideas in order to go to power. It is not surprising what happened: it was already written. After the election of the current President in charge of secretary of the PD, whose Bulgarian percentage clearly pointed out that the result was only the result of a squalid fiction of the old ruling class. The sly Florence and some young minister of fresh appointment are but yet another deception of a caste of powerful leeches, from De Benedetti to our beloved bankers, who in recent decades have been enriched by demolishing the country and destroying the hope in the future of many citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u63	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u64	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I had a minute and a half. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You only have one minute. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Today they present themselves to us with a new band of young old people, even older in the spirit and in the conduct of those who preceded them and to whom with the deception and betrayal, typical of the political tradition they represent, they have torn the so much desired armchairs. We believe that the change of this country is a serious and indispensable thing, not a palace game built on illusory data... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These figures are unfortunately not reflected in the old rot that this political majority represents. This government is yet another gift from old politics and our dear President. However, you will not be able to escape the urns for a long time: citizens, as soon as they have the chance, will send you home and the 5 Star Movement, the only real opposition, will continue to defend everyone's right to dream of a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u65	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u66	President Grasso, I take the floor in this House with feelings of embarrassment and disgust at the miserable words spoken by Mr Renzi. I find myself faced with a President-in-Office of the Council who is used to lying, and horribly good at it, a pupil and emulator of another former Prime Minister, who has thought well of making private agreements for a new electoral law. I am in front of a government chosen by you, Mr Renzi, and endorsed by a President of the Republic who does not represent me and who has allowed this Parliament to be expelled by the sound of signatures on scandalous decrees-laws, your decrees-laws [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I have before me an overly ambitious Prime Minister, so much so as to get to stab behind what he himself called a friend. I ask you a question with reference to what you said earlier: was your unemployed friend of the phone call by any chance Enrico? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Will it be that he just wanted to take Henry's place, or perhaps his purpose is to place his men in the companies involved? Maybe it is Henry's men who occupy those places, as a prize for silent resignation? The 5 Star Movement, to a serial liar, trust will never give it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u67	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u68	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, when De Gasperi presented himself at the 1946 peace conference in Paris, he said: By taking the word in this world assembly I feel that everything, except your personal courtesy, is against me............................................................................................................................... I would like to reassure you, Mr President, that to the duty of courtesy towards you and the Commission, I will also add the frankness, loyalty and responsibility to an executive who sits at a dramatic moment in the history of the country, for at least three reasons. Firstly, you have made a gesture which must be taken into account. The country for some time - and someone did not notice it, before her - needs to pacify the political climate, as a condition to give the country itself an adequate condition for carrying out effective legislative action. You went in that direction, transforming the enemies of those who preceded you into political opponents with whom to establish a dialectical encounter, which can also be harsh, but must be constructive. Keep going in that direction. Secondly, there is the reason for this when it snapped the figures of what it did not call a crisis but a collapse. To those figures - which I do not repeat, because it has been exhaustive, Mr President - I add only two figures, dramatic and disturbing, which turn into lashes on our conscience: suicide every two and a half days and 149 people who, only in 2013, took their lives for economic reasons (one, four days ago, for having received a fine of 2,000 euros, having put their wife to work in his very small company). Mr President, these things cannot happen. Thirdly, until the Senate is cleared and you have given, as a priest, the extreme anointing to this House, it is good that it carries out its task up to the bottom, with dignity and responsibility, keeping the level of debate and even confrontation high. Since I want to be consistent with the statements I have made, I allow myself to give you two advices, without going into the matter, because the judgment - you know - is suspended. We will evaluate it within the framework of the measures, and I am convinced that it will not hand over decree-laws to us, but that it will outline draft laws of the Government, and we will respond with gratitude to give you responsibility for a quick and effective debate for the good of the country. But do not start on the path of the urgent decree, because otherwise it will have anticipated the death of the Senate (and also of the other Chamber) and certainly vulnered even more the democracy of our country. Two tips, then. [[Call the president back.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Be generous at least this time. Please. I'll be very quick.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u69	I'm wasting more time interrupting her than making her talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u70	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). First piece of advice. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, make sure that Europe wants a strong Italy which is economically and politically strong and that there are no supra-institutional forces in Europe - I dare say - that want it to be economically weak and politically fragile. To do this it would be necessary, for example, to investigate, understand why the EBA imposed on four large Italian banks 15 billion euros of recapitalisation, causing the search for money on the market, with consequent strangled credit to companies and families. It is necessary to understand whether there have been manipulators and what trading techniques have been used in speculative negotiations carried out on the national and foreign platform. Understand if rating agencies, which award votes and report cards on the state of health of the country's economy, are allowed to do so and respect the parameters to carry out this activity. This is due to a heavy activity of the investigative judiciary, in particular of the Prosecutor of the Republic of Trani. Second advice. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you did not mention the titles... Finish with the board, please. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). ...the South. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have been mortified and continue to be mortified. Three points. The first is the changes to the share ratio of the FAS funds. We have basically lost five percentage points: from 15.85 we have risen to 20.80. The South, my Region, has been penalized and is on its knees; the South itself where there is the greatest unemployment, where companies close and where there is a passive extra-regional and extra-national mobilization of our young people. Secondly, the policy against the university system of the Mezzogiorno. If it is true what today tells one of the major national newspapers on the university system and what happens in the universities of the Mezzogiorno, take the measures, assign responsibility, but do not put... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Thirdly, the resources of the Single Justice Fund (FUG)...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u71	It wasn't advice, it was a series of advice. I'm sorry. He can't measure time, Senator. He's been talking for over two minutes. Anyway, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u72	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). ...that are the result of the work of the investigative judiciary, praiseworthy and highly appreciated, turn into human and economic resources for the same territories, to restore the conditions of legality and security that are lacking today. And you know, Mr President-in-Office, that if there is no security and no legality there is no development. With these assumptions, our vote will be negative, but there will be maximum willingness to be there to support it in an effective action to restore a prospect of hope to our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u73	Senator Pizzetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u74	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, good work. You have asked us for confidence and we will give you confidence, with the frankness and loyalty you have requested. We have heard his statements: they are challenging, I would say very demanding. They outline an extraordinarily substantial reformist effort in an extraordinarily short time. The success of this effort has little to do with courage; it has much to do with responsible awareness. It will therefore need the firm support of all its majority, whose parliamentary boundaries are well defined and not susceptible to karst movements. A majority still anomalous, because it is not the daughter of a bipolar electoral outcome, but a much more political majority than the one that gave birth to the Letta Government and the one that supported it since Berlusconi left this House following the vote on the decadence. More politics and less emerging. These are the statements you have outlined to you: economic, institutional, civil and organizational reforms. It is the presence in the Government of the secretaries of the main political forces that support it to characterize it thus. It is the time limit of the legislature that you have indicated to give her this sign. You have, therefore, taken on a serious task, and it is not Italy's interest that you fail. Therefore, we will support it with responsibility and loyalty: with responsibility, because we care about Italy; with loyalty, which is not that given by party discipline, much less by the fear of the early vote (a sort of propensity to warm up). That loyalty that comes from the sense of community of the Democratic Party, whether or not it is or not, and from the desire to push reforms. A loyalty - I assure you - far greater than that sometimes reserved for its predecessor. There will be no daily announcements of distinction from the choices of the government. You represent our government in person, not a friendly government. We ask you to pay special attention to the issues of enterprise and work and to have justice and equity as the pole star. In order to give force to the democratic system a primary role is the constitutional and legal reforms (without them the country will not take off, even if GDP will return to growth): an institutional and productive system of good norms, able to accompany the social and civil evolution of the country, capable of reconnecting citizens to the state. The reduction of the costs of politics is one piece: the pillar is the efficiency of the system. You insisted on the dowel and outlined the pillar. A pillar which, if it is to be a backbone, needs further ideas. Mr President, on the electoral law, for example, the text we are debating in the House of Members must be strengthened and improved in its majority spirit, selective political representation and elected representatives, the guarantor of gender equality. Political forces outside the majority are valuable in defining a good law, but they cannot impose their vision on the majority. Political majorities cannot be variable; if that were the case, the majority itself would fail. On constitutional reforms we want to discuss starting from the end of the Italian bicameralism, entrusting to the Chamber alone the task of giving confidence to the Government and the pre-eminent legislative function. That said, convincedly and not now, the theme is: Is the Senate unnecessary and residual cost? Or does it have to be a democratic guarantee of the new Republic? We believe that this should be the case: not a direct elected institution, but a representative institution in a modern Federal Republic. Revisited and re-adapted, the German or French senatorial models (perhaps more the second of the first) with co-legislative functions on constitutional norms, civil rights and relations with regions and local authorities can really be reference points; with a function of control and verification on the appointments of senior executives of the state administration, also as support to the right initiative against the moloch of the bureaucracy; with functions of parliamentary inquiry; with roles on the nominations of the Authorities. We are there; we want to be protagonists of this reform process; we want to be protagonists of a step forward, not a step backwards. We are ready - and I say this to you and the new Minister for Constitutional Reforms - to act so that the first reading of the draft Constitutional Reform Act can be completed by the start of the Italian Presidency of the European Semester, in order to give it further strength on that occasion. In this context, Title V must certainly be revised, not with the category of repentance but with that of improvement. The Republic works if all levels are responsible, of course with the principle of safeguarding national interests at the head of the State. The solution lies in this, not in the re-centralization of the state. The federalist season must not be reset but completed, and the function of the new Senate must be thought of in this key. That is why it would be a serious mistake - I tell you frankly, President Renzi - to separate the reform of the Senate from the reform of Title V. You think about it in your idea of starting these reforms in different branches of Parliament, because everything is being held, especially within an idea of the Federal Republic. I mean, to conclude, we don't feel like turkeys on the roof or on the plate. We are aware of the emergencies and the needs of change: Italy is at stake. Therefore, in accordance with the roles of Government and Parliament, you will find in us, not resistance, but solicitors. In this spirit, we will vote for you and your government. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u75	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u76	I remind you, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u77	I got a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u78	It's a minute. Ask your Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u79	NUGNES (M5S). It was a minute and a half. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you a minute. NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, according to the latest report by the World Health Organisation, we are first in Europe because of pollution (such as corruption); we are first in the case of Community infringements (and in the list, first in the case of the environment). The fines are hundreds of millions of euros. The direct and indirect costs of non-prevention and non-control cannot be underestimated. Yet the box of the Ministry of the Environment has been filled at random, as trapholes by manual Cencelli. Prime Minister, listen to me. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Thank you. This says a lot about the importance given to a Dicastery for other vital European countries. A government that does not understand the strategic importance of a Ministry like that of the environment is out of time, out of history, out of Europe. This new old government, supported by the same majority of the disastrous decrees of the last year, with a very chatty toto-ministers, entrusts the Ministry of the environment to the nuclearist, sponsored by Hera, Galletti, for this supporter of the Emilia-Romagna plan garbage bin of Italy. No environmental competence: his parliamentary career is all in the Budget Commissions. The intent? To make economic interest prevail over the environmental one, in perfect continuity, on the rise, with the recent past. But we're not gonna give anyone discounts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u81	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this debate represents an opportunity for us in the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms to stress - and I expected to hear it in President Renzi's programme statements too - how the economic crisis we are experiencing is re-assuming the central role that the problems of the Mezzogiorno have in defining an Italian strategy to overcome the crisis: problems that are not only dear to LAGs, but on which the survival of the same country depends. For a long time, and several times, we have reminded this House of the conclusion of the document that SVIMEZ published on 17 October. The Italian system must rely heavily on the possibility to reactivate the development of the South, defining conditions that have, with immediate anti-conjunctural effectiveness, the breath of an action aimed at strategic objectives and national valence. If the South starts to grow again, the whole of Italy starts again. This is not just about the urgency of rediscovering a strategy of growth and economic development, but rather about finding a way to achieve more complete social justice. The problem of problems in Europe is not the level of guarantee of rights, but the guarantee of its correct distribution, which I dare not call the revenge of territories. This is true in Europe and is worth much more in our country. Of all this - I am sorry not to see the President-in-Office of the Council present here - we have heard nothing in the programme statements, but a courageous initiative for the Mezzogiorno today seems absolutely fundamental. The lack of a comprehensive strategy for the Mezzogiorno has led to the failure of small fragmentary initiatives, which have been screwed together. In order to promote action that is up to the problems, it is therefore necessary to recover first of all a shared vision and an overall design. All this, in the awareness that it is necessary to face the great emergencies, which are coming with ever greater intensity. The first of these is the work: President Renzi recalled it, but he mentioned only some data. It is enough to read the Svimez report, which is really chilling and which describes a Mezzogiorno at risk of industrial desertification. The manufacturing sector has fallen by 25%, jobs have fallen by 30%, investment by 45% and one in seven families has less than 1,000 euros per month of income. The problem is unemployment, but the problem is also employment, for example, for certain categories. I remember two of them, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The first is that of women: in Germany 58 percent of women are occupied, in Italy this figure drops to 40 percent and in the Mezzogiorno this figure is below 21 percent, condemning women to a segregation that takes them out of the world of work and life. I also remember NEETs, young people who no longer hope to study, work or train, who exceed 3 million. Of these, 2 million are in the Mezzogiorno and 1,850,000 are women. Looking at these data we understand that, if we do not have an overall national strategy, that puts the development of the Mezzogiorno back at the centre, to resume the initiative in the country, this country is dead. I remember very well our meeting, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in which we gave you a book by an economist, Carlo Maria Cipolla, whose title is "Allegro but not too much" which has been called the "anarchistguizzo of intelligence": an intelligence that I recognized to you, for what is your history as a man. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how can we fail to take into account the fact that infrastructure is a key issue for the Mezzogiorno at the moment? I remember two episodes in this regard, which I also mentioned that morning, the first of which concerns the Bridge on the Strait of Messina, which constitutes the indecency of this country, of which no one speaks. It is an infrastructure for which the State will pay the same amount as it would have invested to build the bridge and with a company that has taken the place of the general contractor, to collect this penalty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Scavone. SCAVONE (GAL). The lack of the bridge leads to the impossibility of completing the Berlin-Palermo Corridor (or rather, the Helsinki-La Valletta Corridor), losing thousands of jobs and resources to a Mezzogiorno that remains disconnected from the rest of the country. We also believe that the recovery requires two fundamental conditions, which we do not take a step back, namely the free zones and the tax advantage, so that companies in the Mezzogiorno can return to a correct path. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Scavone. SCAVONE (GAL). I will finish now, Mr President. For these reasons, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with pain we do not feel that we can give you our vote in favour of trust, committing ourselves, as we have always done in these classrooms, also with the previous line of credit open to the Letta Government, so that your Government, which we hope is the last of this legislature and the first of the great reforms that so much expect for the country, can have our vote for all the healthy proposals and re-launches that the country expects. [[Applause from the LAG Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u82	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether in this media show, which is not political, in the pursuit of fame, in the run-up to the chair, it will deal with human rights, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Will you take care of the situation in Italian prisons? He will have to give answers to the European Court of Human Rights by 28 May. Will you take care of the hundreds of victims of feminicide, the over 50,000 homeless, homeless, exodus, workers? How are you going to protect the magistrates and law enforcement officers who investigate the state-mafia negotiations? How long and why do you have to wait for Matthew's judge to have the bomb-jammer? And what about the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersexual citizens (LGBTI) who are waiting for their identity to be recognized? Do you think that hunger, violence and the mob are only fighting with one of your tweets? Living your existence dignifiedly is a right. Maybe it's a different concept for you, at least avoid propaganda ads and your points of synthesis! His slogans are not serious reforms. Do not trample on the ethical themes that are our life, mind, heart, integrity! Today, here and not only, you see a monstrous desert that smells of death and a Republic founded on bronze faces! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u84	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u85	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation which has arisen with the election of the new Secretary of the Democratic Party, the resignation of the Letta Government and the formation of the new Government, calls on Parliament to express its opinion in order to give confidence to a new Renzi-led Executive. So far, the Government of wide understanding and service has worked to show that it is the good fruit of an assumption of responsibility by the political forces of center-left and center-right, managing to overcome even the moments of internal dialectics of the same parties. I believe that it is consistent for the New Right Centre to support the new Government, since the political conditions that need stability and continuity with the outgoing Government's policy lines have not failed. At the same time, however, I think it is necessary to ask that we do not limit ourselves to a relay between Letta and Renzi, but that we take a further step forward, defining more clearly the points contained in the programme; at the same time, we ask that the same points be accompanied by a precise timetable, as indicated by the President of the Council himself. As senator of the New Right Center I feel more than ever the need for an acceleration that looks to the near future, while maintaining the sense of reality, from which we cannot afford to be avoid. I believe that it was, is and will be necessary on the part of all the parliamentary components, to continue to work on the ethical and moral recovery of politics, a condition without which any direction and government program would risk being betrayed. The Letta Government was authoritative and serious, the only one possible in Italy at that extremely delicate historical stage. In fact, in recent months, our Pese has made as much encouraging as important progress: abroad Italy has finally deserved confidence, especially from investors and economists. In short, the process of serious crisis that had worn out the country has reversed its direction towards recovery, and for these reasons the outgoing Government certainly deserves appreciation. Despite this, the citizens still maintain a strong distrust of the political class, since it has often given the impression that they do not respond to the needs of the country, to tergiverse in the rooms and party chatter. I repeat, as I have said before: we are at the full and exclusive service of the citizens, let us not forget. Luciano Bianciardi, an important intellectual of the second twentieth century, wrote: "Politics, as everyone knows, has long ceased to be the science of good governance, and has instead become the art of conquest and preservation of power." Well, I would like to take this warning to reverse its terms, so that politics will return to being, as La Pira claimed, the art of the common good and, as De Gasperi stated, to have the noble objective of looking to future generations. Therefore, I repeat that the new Government and the Parliament must be asked to act with greater and more decisive determination than hitherto also on the path of reforms, beginning with constitutional and electoral reforms and those of parliamentary regulations. We are well aware of the fact that today Italian politics, and Parliament's own activities, have been asphyxiated and weakened precisely by an anachronistic political-institutional system. Mr Renzi, I cannot but urge everyone, including myself, because this new and long-lasting phase is still an opportunity to unite political forces rather than divide them, so that they can be built rather than destroyed. For our part, further and continuous commitments will still be needed to fully implement the new Executive's programme. In this respect, we share the clarity on the reforms contained in the policy statements, from the constitutional and electoral declarations to that of justice, which must pay more attention to rights: and I am thinking of the issues of protective custody, prisons, interceptions, guarantee notices, which must return to being a guarantee instrument for citizens and not a stigma of guilt, from the reduction of the times of the civil and administrative process. We also share the planned measures to support the national economy and reduce labour costs for businesses and workers. But we will still have to look carefully at reducing public expenditure and reformulating spending review, as well as being able to give Italy back its crucial role in Europe and in the Mediterranean, also in view of the European Presidency in the second half of 2014. But among these points - as already announced by President Renzi himself - the issue of work must have priority and effectiveness of intervention. In fact, we know well that on problems such as unemployment and reforms the Italians will no longer be patient or merciful. Italy is still struggling with a huge public debt, a recession that has difficulty in inventing itself, with banks that do not grant credit, with unemployment especially youth dramatic, with excessive taxation that afflicts most Italians, with a bureaucracy that imposes excessive burdens on companies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Torrisi, finish your speech. TORRISI (NCD). A few seconds, thank you, President. As a Member of the South, I would like to stress that it is essential to address the southern issue with a new vision, compared to the last 20 years, which has been sidelined by a short-sighted policy which has not allowed the economic and social development of the South. So, and I conclude, I am extremely motivated to share and support the new Government's programme, continuing to follow the New Right Center's policy line. The hope is that there will be the political stability envisaged by President Renzi himself, so that Parliament can also operate regularly and actively in its legislative function, with a synergistic work of the institutions, all at the service of the whole nation. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u86	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we are suffering from a huge Atlas complex, the character who carried the world on his shoulders. However, we prefer to risk, to try, even to fail hoping not to do so and instead to succeed in this action - rather than to sit on the banks of the river waiting for the exanimous body of an Italy to pass without a firm and safe guide. For the same immense sense of duty, I cannot personally surrender to the idea that the most renewed Parliament and with the greater female presence of republican history will end and miserably fail its mission and do not try to give the country the answers it has in its ranks. In short, we must finally do what Einaudi said was the function of politics, that is to guarantee the human person against the omnipotence of the State and the arrogance of his fellowmen. Dear Matteo Renzi, fairness and justice: this is what we have to do in terms of work. We will have to be able every day to erode mistrust of the politics and discredit of the institutions. So, skills, ideas and work in strategic and non-marginal sectors. I am particularly concerned with the environment, and it is this sector that I would like to deal with in these few minutes that I have left. It is the sector that we continue to put in a box rather than considering it as a cross-cutting element to any policy, as is the case in more developed countries, which are therefore better overcoming their crisis, such as Norway and Germany. A fundamental principle, an idea of economic development policy capable of changing society. Policies aimed at the recovery of the territory and finally different mobility, the recovery of raw materials, smart networks and cities, the enormous potential of green and blue economy in employment, a new conception of working times as well. They ask us for a new mindset to build choices that the country needs. They call for a radical change of purpose, of objectives to be achieved step by step, focusing on taking stock of the steps and their consequences. Choices on which we will work firmly and loyally immediately, President Renzi, thus measuring the ability to represent this new Italy in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. PUPPATE (PD). Of course, ma'am. Conscious of its potentiality, its beauties, in a respectful, strong and determined action, as is appropriate to a country that has been and must continue to be the great lighthouse of known civilization. Congratulations to all of us and congratulations on your work and courage. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u88	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u89	Mr President, it is true, Mr Renzi: in Italy the emergency is work. Precisely: decent work, otherwise we don't talk about work. Too bad, however, that I did not hear a single word in his speech about one of the largest groups in our country, FIAT, which in fact is preparing to leave Italy, practically in line with what happened with previous governments: silence. If you want to talk about work you have to defend what there is and create it again, summoning immediately FIAT to the table, since so much, so much has received from this country. Today, unfortunately, its workers are treated in an ingenious way, in a deafening silence of its majority. It is necessary to encourage contracts of solidarity, pure oxygen for workers and for the territories; to tax the companies that invest and do not fire; to extend the Cassa Integrazione to all the workers because - it is good to remind many here - the workers suffer the cashier, do not ask it; to stop with precarious contracts that, besides not being in line with our Constitution, on which the Government has sworn, do not create employment but unemployment and humiliate the workers. To understand this, it is enough to trust the workers, those who work and not the virtual professors of work who, in fact, know him only virtually. Sandro Pertini said that freedom without social justice is a vain conquest. So, I ask you in all conscience: how do you plan to govern with this majority that by its political action in recent years has destroyed social justice in this country always being on the side of the strongest? That is why we cannot give her our trust. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u90	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u91	Mr President, Mr Renzi, you will be the centre of gravity of all government activity and the direct responsible for the implementation of your programme. Yet, he begins to fulfill the mandate with fresh air and scanned as if he were in a boy scout camp; this makes it nice and well-liked by many. But you, President Renzi, are also the result of the games of Palazzo, those that do not make the citizens sleep calmly. How to be serene, President Renzi, with a Minister of Economics who has been called by Olli Rehn the man who knows what must be done? We have gone from broad understandings to large enterprises, with to the Government an explosive mix of Confindustria, cooperatives, TAV, Expo, Communion and billing, sickle, trolley and door. Only the devil and the holy water are missing! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] All the resources of the productive activities will flow into the Government of large enterprises, in the most harmonious and foscolian correspondence of love of old and new Renzi! President Renzi, what are the non-deserving reasons for the choice of your ministers? What are the stops to missed appointments given to certain? How will you reconcile a desirable conflict of interest law with a Minister of Economic Development whose company makes such important profits with so many public orders? Like with a Minister of Labour who will have to watch over his fellow cooperatives? You, Mr Renzi, will not be able to do anything against the powers of the lobby because they wanted it and support it. However, I hope in a battle that can also be shared by you against the caste that costs us the most without bringing any advantage: that of bureaucracy. In the World Bank's "Doing Business 2014" ranking, Italy is only 23rd among the 28 countries of the European Union. Small and medium-sized enterprises, the heart of Italy and close to the heart attack, bear 31 billion euros of unnecessary expenditure each year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We need a breakthrough, we need to streamline and give value to commitment and merit: that his Jobs Act does not reveal the lack of promise of a thousand jobs of Berlusconian memory. President Renzi, wash the shoes of politics in the Arno and don't dirty them badly recommended in the Tiber. Your Government will not give Italy the revolutionary shock that you so announced: for that reason the country can rely only on us. But I wish you, at least, not to turn your mandate into a Renzi peace. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u93	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that I will not give the word 'opposition' with any adjectives, for a matter of lexical aesthetics. If Matthew Renzi has a merit, it is to be direct, and to propose in the dialogue with him formulas as "responsible opposition" it brings us back to an outdated ritual, to that language in which the word "institutional" is more synonymous with "hypocrisy" than "truth." I believe that the clarity of the roles of majority and opposition is an element of transparency that is good for the institutions, especially now that after the gray parenthesis, for me, of the governments of presidential emanation, we have returned to a government exquisitely political, it was nothing else because it is led by the secretary of the PD. But the very clarity demands that the judgments follow the facts, not vice versa. Even today we have been flooded by a river of words. Even there has been a waste: promises on the "svolts", on the "revolutions" to be made month after month. In short, to hear the Premier this Government will be a turning point for everyone. I hope so: but I would not want, as usual, the rhetoric of doing to replace doing. That is why I am waiting for the government to prove itself by saying that if the government lowers taxes, reduces VAT, the tax wedge, reform justice, or goes to Europe to change austerity policy, it will have my vote. And it couldn't be otherwise, since that's what I've been preaching for years. But if taxation increases, on the BOTs or on anything else, there will be a big "no" and barricades. The question, however, is whether or not the new government will be able to impose this change. I wonder: why should Renzi succeed where Letta failed? After all, the political framework is the same: you, President Renzi, can count on the same majority that supported the Letta Government. But something has changed, for worse: in the meantime, in fact, those parties divided and multiplied and at the last majority summit they presented themselves in nine. Not to mention the structure of the Government: in it there is continuity where there would have been need for discontinuity, and vice versa. For example, the return of a politician to the Ministry of Economic Affairs would perhaps have been better than a technician: an appointment of this kind in itself would have been a signal for Brussels. But apparently, the last word on that Ministry remains the prerogative of the Quirinale. As well as keeping the current Minister of the Interior in his place, after criticizing him, she first and in ferocious terms, for the management of the Kazakh case, was not a happy choice. On the other hand, you wanted to replace the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence at a crucial stage in the negotiations for the liberation of the Maroons: and here, perhaps, to ensure a minimum of continuity, on the other hand, would not have been bad. For the rest, you have emphasized very much the generational jump, which in itself is not a guarantee; and you have respected with pignoleria the geography of the internal currents of the PD. More than a new government, yours looks like a reshuffle. Anyway, don't worry, I hope in the turn. It will agree with me, however, that the real "svolta" in a country's policies take place on the wave of great popular legitimacy. His own myths teach us this: John Kennedy and Tony Blair. You may have preferred the same thing, but since on the top floor of our institutions someone suffers from a strong allergy to the ballot box, they could not do so. In any case you have become Premier in the wake of a Palace operation: by the will of the 136 people who sit in the direction of the PD and not of millions of Italians. The problem is that, using this shortcut, its strength, its legitimacy to attempt a revolution has decreased, and not a little, in Italy as in Europe. Anyway, I hope so. Again. As long as you're still the same. You know, experience teaches me that one thing is to aspire to Premier's chair, another to sit on it. It is a difference that changes the world's vision. You can already see the first symptoms of metamorphosis on her. When he was secretary of the PD he had a propensity for the ballot box and, precisely for this reason, wanted to lead the electoral reform to port as soon as possible. Now that he's arrived at Palazzo Chigi, thanks to that transversal party that refuses elections, his priorities are changing. Or so it appears. Someone is sure that electoral reform can wait in his head. Even a constitutional reproach is imagined: that the entry into force of the new law is bound to the approval of the Senate reform. If that were the case, it would create an insurmountable obstacle. Meanwhile for a question of principle: pacta sunt servanda; also because such a hypothesis would put at risk the entire path of reforms. Today, among a thousand difficulties, there is the possibility of making an electoral reform only thanks to the fact that the party of the non-voting party knows very well that a failure on this issue would directly bring the country to the polls. Two years from now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Exactly, the success of the reforms is also determined by the timing. So, in order not to make fun of us, if the new electoral law does not come into force immediately, the entire agreement on reforms will be missed. We do it for us, for her and for the country. And I hope, because hope is the last one to die, that you don't want to go back to your steps. Whoever wants to change the world, doesn't go back. Also because this country does not live happy days, does not live happy days and does not need a Fonzie, but a Premier who keeps his word. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u94	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u95	Mr President, arrivalism, arrogance, falsehood, idolatry of power, lies, selfish ambition: this is the clear reading of the birth of this Berlusconi Government... um, Renzi. Well, it's the same thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this rapid mutation unordinarily realized and with strong analogies with the law of fratricide is synthesized the emblem of the Italetta of the parties. You. You've joined forces, Berlusconi and Renzi. Alfano I do not quote because the real political leader is always Berlusconi: you have not managed to make us believe that you have detached [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As they say in Val d'Aosta: There's no one who's crazy. I was saying, you have joined forces, clearly this time, to attempt the last coup d'état of the parties against the citizens. You won't! People know you now, they know your lies and your tricks. You can continue to persecute us, throwing media troops at us, TV, newspapers, radio, magazines, but you will not be able to take away the will to change this country! Trust, zero! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] COCIANCICH (PD). (Ironically). Good boy, good boy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u96	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, today is a crucial stage in the path of political settlement and, as a result, the economic-social path of our country, a moment that has come to us with many difficulties and that has led us all to start a sort of introspection on what the country really deserves. Today's confidence, in my opinion, represents the point of arrival of this country's political self-consciousness, because we have before us two simple ways: to put or not to put the country first. There are no other shortcuts. With today's choice, we will either go one way or the other, assuming responsibility before the country. Of course, the difficulties are not negligible, also because the passage of deliveries between you, President Renzi, and your predecessor we cannot call it ordinary. However, we should look beyond the political chronicle and I myself have decided to place myself beyond this limit, putting any easy political consideration in a corner. I believe that this posture - more ethical than political - places the real political maturity of a man of the institutions. This House today is called upon to recover precisely this: the substratum of political maturity that should condition every choice, especially on the eve of a reform season and with a country that in the meantime continues to remain on its knees. It is useless, and frankly gross, to hide the hostility to this new Government behind the spectre of illegality or the absence of consent. A perspective of this kind is in fact a sin of detachment from the real. Is there still anyone today who believes here in this House that the current electoral law will lead to a stable government structure that meets the needs of an electoral majority? I don't think so. Does anyone really think that there is a viable alternative to the current government precourse? The only certainty is that we do not have the regulatory instruments to hope for a solution that is different from the current one. The electoral law with annexed constitutional reform, as you rightly pointed out, Mr Renzi, is one of the necessary steps to rethink the legitimate idea of electoral consensus. And on this point we will work hard to improve it, given the indisputable relevance of this. And if we're here, it's just because we're responsible for it. President Renzi, you have taken a good look at what are the most urgent needs of the country, as well as the reforms that will have to fill each of these. And I believe that only cross-cutting government can enable this to be done. It is no longer the time of one-manshow, nor that of faction interests. It is necessary to rediscover the value and urgency of working together and to do so by keeping the goal in mind: that is, overcoming the ford. Rewriting the rules of the game together, as you said, is precisely the constitutive value of respect for the institutions. Surely one cannot remain indifferent to the breath of novelty that this Government represents: first, a Premier under the age of 40, a lean government structure, average age around 45 and perfect gender equality. Basically, what civil society has been calling for since time immemorial (and by me, father of three daughters), as well as something that represents a promising business card for Europe. The path of renewal of this Government - in my opinion - begins right here: from the will to face complex challenges and hard commitments with new tools and not with the old mentality of the Palace. I welcome a genuine political government team. Because in the aftermath of the failure of government technicalism, the country needs ministers who still want to dream and question themselves. We must give confidence to renewal, even if for the moment it remains linked to political marketing and not yet to the facts. However, we will be vigilant and attentive. But giving confidence to the new, to change, involves a certain amount of courage: and we are all called to this very thing. Personally, I've never missed him. And I believe that, when a dose of courage is required in politics, one is faced with one of those challenges that cannot be allowed to be missed. There's a country out there in distress, a shaky economy, a generation with no support and no future. And there is a Europe in which we must return to being protagonists. And on the eve of the European Presidency of Italy, we cannot afford false steps. Therefore, we need a serious call for responsibility on the part of all, because a serious political force, faced with such important choices, cannot and must not be conditioned by the logic of appointments, but by the commitment of politics. That is the courage, ladies and gentlemen. To throw the heart beyond the obstacle and always keep in mind that, beyond your own interest, there is a country. True, it is the time of courage that excludes no one and leaves no alibi to anyone. Dear President Renzi, courage, however, does not mean guaranteeing unconditional support. At this stage, I believe that a critical and open-minded spirit, which knows from time to time to time to urge, support and redanguire if necessary, is crucial. Also because, President Renzi, the road map you outlined is ambitious and necessary at the same time. In this context, Mr Renzi, please bear in mind, however, that before you, in this Parliament, there is also a group of elected MPs in the foreign constituency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, finish, please. DI BIAGIO (PI). I've got a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'm sorry. I'll tell you how many minutes you have. DI BIAGIO (PI). Parliamentarians bearers of requests and initiatives that grab 4 million Italians in every part of the world. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have asked us to go in the direction of the turning point and we want to believe it. But the turning point must involve every Italian: those who live there in Italy and those who, for different reasons, live in other countries, but who still want to believe in a project of rebirth of our country. We expect respect and attention, listening and involvement, because only in this way will it be possible to give a shape to this turning point or, at least, make it really concrete and not just a publicity launch. We have appreciated its valorisation of Europe and European and European tradition as a better part of Italy. For this reason I do not understand the absence of a specific Ministry for European policies, which may represent a serious deficit for the country at this time. But I am sure - and I am going to finish - that there can be time on this point to review such a choice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. I'd hate to have to take your word off. DI BIAGIO (PI). Before her there is a difficult challenge, and we want to be with her, without taboos. But he has to give us the tools to operate, support and guarantee. This is the day of readiness and openness, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Now it is up to you to turn this confidence into the future of Italy and Italians. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u97	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I am one of the sixteen members of the national leadership of the Democratic Party, who, a few days ago, in that context, voted against the document proposed by the National Secretary of the Democratic Party for the formation of this new Government. This is because it was believed that we could not repeat an alliance with the centre-right, and moreover for the entire remaining period of the legislature, against the mandate received only a year ago by our electors and without prior passage to the ballot box. The outcome of that national leadership was broadly in favour of its proposal and created considerable and heavy fibrillations within the Democratic Party, especially in the secular and left-wing areas. Now, we have to consider the proposal of a new government, headed by the National Secretary of the Democratic Party, aware of both the seriousness of the situation and the fact that this, for the Democratic Party and for the center-left, is almost a government from the last beach. The issues you have put on the table are all relevant and complex, but they are not exhaustive, especially from the political point of view. For example, there is no mention of the possibility of holding together such a composite majority, particularly on the issues that, for institutional reasons, I find myself having to face daily in this Senate and that have already regularly divided centre-right and centre-left. You referred very correctly to the area of justice (administrative, civil and criminal) as one of those on which absolutely and deeply intervene. Now, apart from the fact that it should not be done only for economic reasons, so to speak, but for reasons related to respect for the fundamental rights of the person (both in the civil-administrative sector and in the cases of persons investigated or even imprisoned), we expect to reason and work together with the Minister of Justice, yes on the indisputable reforms of the system, but also on well-defined issues; such as the fight against corruption and crime, the forgery in the budget and self-recycling, the modification of the prescription and the conflict of interest, the crimes against the environment, the guarantees for the confidentiality of people and institutions, so badly exited from the given affair. Without forgetting to address together the issue of civil rights and social justice for all (including, for example, exodus and those who risk their integrity in the workplace), in the name of ethical and constitutional principles of equality and solidarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Casson. CASSON (PD). I'm finishing up, ma'am. Already on the issues that I have limited myself to remember you could prepare a program and a job to shake your wrists. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us not back down. We are part of the Democratic Party and we want to continue to believe in the principles and values enshrined in our Statute. I believe that they, as well as our way of doing politics, are alternatives to the right-wing world. If he succeeds, with this Government, to make them prevail, he will have well deserved our trust and trust of the Italian people. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u99	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u100	Mr President, my fellow Senators, Mr Renzi, today I wish your Government and your Ministers a good start. This speech was addressed to Minister Lorenzin, who is not here at the moment. So I'm going to give the speech to you, ma'am. President! President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. The President is present. He doesn't listen to me. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. President me? I'm here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue your speech. SIMONI (M5S). I extend a special wish to the newly acclaimed faces, which should have replaced the members of the Letta Government. I hope that Minister Lorenzin, who today replaces Minister Lorenzin, will be able to do better than his predecessor. In fact, during the ten months of Letta's government, the Minister of Health has not been able to introduce even an improvement to our disordered health system. No innovation in the system, no solution for precarious hospital staff, no concrete agreement for the health pact with the regions. Not to mention the pitiful management of the Stamina case. The very new Minister of Health, Lorenzin, has a warm hope of overcoming his predecessor. And to you, President Renzi, congratulations for always finding new talents. Finally, you started by saying that you are not old: unfortunately you don't just miss that one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u102	Mr Renzi, I would like to address you very frankly: for several weeks you have represented a hope for me and for many others, that you will be able to recover a majority and a government of a different profile at last. We even hoped that this much-discussed task, entrusted to it by the Head of State, could coincide with the attempt to recover a reformative proposal, on the model of "Italy Bene Comune," a project in which not even a year ago we invested energies, ambitions and collective dreams. Today I am here, sorry for an opportunity that one could - indeed, one had to - grasp and interpret with greater courage. It was a question of courage, no doubt, given the difficulties of numbers, but at least it should have been tried to create an alternative proposal to the Government of broad understanding, but from the close views and the scarce possibilities, which, by your own admission, Mr President, has proved genetically impossible to guarantee effective governance. We still need food and courage, that this world has not changed, as Fossati would say and as you said today, in your speech here in this House. Of course, we had and still have our feet firmly on the ground, because that hope that something new could happen was always accompanied by signs that have convinced us little or nothing: among all, the "out of Parliament" design of the reform of the electoral law, without ever talking about conflict of interest and the overall situation of the members of the Chambers and of the Government. Form and substance, in democracy, always coincide. It should also be mentioned the slogan - because it is perceived as such - with which he launched the reform of the Senate, a proposal that, thus made, would risk being ineffective and useless, since it is detached from an overall geography of reforms that embraces the entire institutional, central and local system. It is a proposal that has sent out a paradoxical message, as if abolishing the Senate could solve the problems of the country. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Stefani.]] I would have liked you to be my President-in-Office of the Council, but unfortunately I immediately - and many have done so with me - missed a change of pace. A missed change of pace convinced us that we would not have arrived again this time to a government project of clear reformist imprint. Forgive me if I look at the events of his party, but, you know, we were allies: the generational change was the most conscious of the choices made with the primary ones that the year proclaimed Secretary, but it cannot be enough, just as the significant signal of gender equality in his government team can not suffice, if it does not correspond to a choice of profiles, experiences and political and intellectual expressions tuned to the necessary change. The only hope, then, is that within Parliament the reforms that citizens expect will be made, that work policies that can restore confidence, economic policies that can capture the timid signs of recovery and social policies - not least - that will enable us to face the effects of a ferocious crisis, which has seriously affected families. It would be a serious mistake to turn the passage of witness into the removal of a history, a social and cultural root and a point of view on injustices. The government of the country will be a formidable proof also from this point of view, but a government alone is not enough, even when it is a lower average age, if it does not have a greater ambition; it is not enough, if you stop looking at all a bag of values that belong to the history of our country and today, and that can help to decode reality, to read in the folds of our daily life and to identify its solutions. In short, the dream (not to mention the illusion) lasted a short time, because immediately she placed herself in continuity with those who preceded him, in the contents and numbers of the majority, with a novelty, this yes: a horizon of legislature to reassure those who do not want to give themselves up to the vote. I do not hide a certain concern, because the impression that you, President Renzi, had to take passive note of the party diktats that in 2013 you have applied for a right-wing government is more than an impression. In fact, it is confirmed by what the programmatic statements tell us today, rather they do not tell us. Of course, you have launched some very important challenges. He spoke of constitutional reforms, of justice and of work, and we agree that it is urgent not to postpone its appointment again, as the policy of the last 20 years has done. But I am afraid that it may be, again this time, titles, slogans, because we are not convinced of the choice to put ourselves in the wake of an experience that has already shown itself to be bankrupt. We see it daily in the Commissions, not only here in the Senate but also in the Chamber, where, set a goal, it is always difficult to reach it when starting from opposite perspectives and points of view. And then, alas, not a word about the South. Wanting to relaunch Italy and wanting to do it soon, as he announced, I hope he does not want to favour the North, as everyone has always done, considering it almost mythologically the locomotive of the Country. Many of us in the South, Mr President, have shown with effort and courage that another story can be written, that the South is not logical to clientele, waste and inability. There is another capable South that needs an effective side, which calls for more and better dialogue with the Government in order to continue to grow. We would also like to see a change in this respect. But neither men nor women from the South on the government team. Mine are not bell-tower claims, but strong signs that the South has been waiting for too long. I'm really closing. For my culture I do not like attitudes, nor injurious reasonings, but the facts are before everyone's eyes: continuity in the majority, in the content, in the approach and in the profiles of most of the men of his government team. Can we expect, in short, from this triple continuity of the significant innovations? I am not optimistic, but I do not want to give an answer today, because even if the opposition, if important news should come, I will have - and I believe - careful eyes to grasp and appreciate them. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u104	Mr. President, please pull my ear at the last minute? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Even before. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Italians abroad are tired of being perceived as an annoyance. The institutional representations of Italians abroad (the Comites and the General Council) are certainly annoyance to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Just read pages 35 and 36 of the White Paper of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Farnesina 2015 to understand it. But Italians abroad are no bother. They are a piece of Italy of incalculable importance for the Italian economy: for export, for Made in Italy and for investments in Italy. I am speaking here on behalf of my six elected colleagues in the foreign constituency, whom I thank for their confidence. I shall make a very concrete speech, not a very political one, with three points. For eight years now the six senators elected in the foreign constituency have been proposing a reform of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, anticipating the revision of expenditure, proposing to reduce the costs of diplomacy. We propose solutions that guarantee services for Italy and for Italians abroad producing a real cost reduction. What is possible, as shown also by Professor Perotti's work. However, we are confronted with the inertia, shortsightedness and cynicism of the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear President of the Council, here we offer you the opportunity to demonstrate in practice that you want to intervene on the public administration: in the Senate, in the next few days, a motion on the reform of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is on the agenda. So, accept this motion and let's really get to work. There is also a draft law delegates to the Government to reform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of the work carried out by the Commission on the revision of expenditure. Allow me to make a little quote. An authoritative French sociologist, Michel Crozier, in a well-known 1964 essay, entitled "The bureaucratic phenomenon" ("The bureaucratic phenomenon") claimed that a bureaucratic organization is an organization unable to correct itself according to its own mistakes. So your commitment, what you proposed in your programmatic speech, to intervene in the public administration can only have our support. The second point concerns a political commitment: to work with Parliament to plan a reform of the spread of Italian language and culture in the world and the promotion of Made in Italy, putting together these two things and also resources. I quote the example of Germany, which operates in this way: if it puts a euro for the spread of German culture in the world, German industries also put a euro. The speech made for cultural heritage in Italy can also be made for this. We therefore call for a commitment to do this work together with the representatives. We cannot simply continue with the old policies. Imagine what is happening with the ICE (the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Economic Development are present). In Zurich, 16 years ago, we celebrated when we managed to shut down the offices of the ICE: for a month we reopened the ICE office in Zurich, because we had to place people in Zurich. The whole Italian-Swiss economic environment is worrying about the return of the ICE. So we want to discuss these concrete problems. I have just mentioned a few examples to make clear the dimension of the issue that we want to address. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Micheloni, you have the last minute as requested. MICHELONI (PD). Thank you. As mayor, you must have already faced the problem of the first home of Italians living abroad. It is a social and also moral problem, which we would like to solve once and for all. Mr President of the Council, Italians abroad feel deeply Italian, even after many generations; even the new emigration remains strongly linked to our country. I would ask, on behalf of my fellow Senators in the foreign constituency, not to mortify these sentiments: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must value them in the interests of the country. Today we will vote for trust in your Government, and we will vote for it with conviction, and also with the commitment to cooperate with your Government on the points and issues we have discussed above. However, we ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to enable us to give you confidence in all the trusts between now and 2018, and to give us concrete answers on these issues. The first measure is due in the next few days in the Senate Chamber. Mr President, how many seconds do I have left? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've run out of time. MICHELONI (PD). Thank you. Then we'll talk about it again. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u106	Mr President, Mr Renzi, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we are living the delicate passages leading to a new government, demonstrating that the country is in serious difficulty, but wants to react with shock therapy, in a dignified way, according to democratic rules, and looking at Europe as a necessary and indispensable common home. As for the Valle d'Aosta, a region that I have the honour to represent, in addition to reaffirming the need for a clear protection of the special autonomy in the process of constitutional reforms (in particular with regard to the modification of Title V of the Constitution, where we hope a reconfirmation and a valorization of specialties), I would like to focus on two points. The first is the final closure of the agreement on the Stability Pact 2013, and here I must thank Minister Delrio for the commitment he has made for this purpose, and the need to open a table for the 2014 Pact immediately with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and with the Ministry for Regional Affairs, to overcome the criticalities present in the relations between Regions and Autonomous Provinces and State Accounting, which have resulted in numerous disputes. The second point, precisely appreciating, Mr President, your speech and the reference to the need to descend into the concrete problems of the citizens, concerns the incredible and amazing communication of Trenitalia to the Valle d'Aosta Region of wanting to reduce by 50% the railway services from March 2014, a service already characterized by serious criticalities, thus creating enormous inconveniences to many citizens. We cannot tolerate a unilateral decision that ignores the path provided for by the law, the implementing rules and the consequent program agreements still to be concluded, certainly not because of inertia by the Region. I therefore ask you, Mr President, for this precise commitment, given that the policy is at the service of the citizens, which deserve clear answers: an authoritative and very urgent statement by you to cancel this decision of Trenitalia, to promote an urgent meeting between the Ministry of Transport and the Region and to apply the law (as provided for in Article 1 of the law of stability, paragraph 515) and finally to begin as soon as possible, with the appointment of the Joint Commission, another important point for us, the path of the specific implementing rules on rail transport. For the sake of the vote of confidence, Mr Renzi, the citizens of Val d'Aosta are waiting for your answer and a timely commitment. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Sposetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u108	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the complete failure of the two previous governments, moreover similar to those of origin and nature, which have never been voted on by the electorate, nor significantly chosen by the people, is an anticipatory element of such evident and negative aspects that, if you look at them, lead to an absolute and implacable criticism, and will remain painfully impressed in the history of this nation, as well as in the memory of the men who live here, as well as having clearly reflected in the tragic condition of improbable survival that concerns the vast majority of Italians now reduced to desperate poverty. From poverty one can rise up on the furthest scale of well-being even towards wealth, but this is only possible by keeping alive the flame of hope: the escapes abroad, the desperate deaths, the disaster of souls are unmistakably leading only to the worst. To think of healing that ever-growing and enormous deficit that none of the individual Italian citizens have participated in determining, but that only a prodigal state of uselessness, abuse, excesses, waste, errors and generalised partisan rewards has failed to regress by imposing itself mainly a great reduction in expenses, is an element that makes anyone suffer a minimum of sensitivity and, being able to decide, a maximum responsibility in this regard. I have to scream "just!" to the suicides due to the persecutory fiscal harassment, also because precisely those agencies that are in charge of the withdrawal are among the first to show the signs and the sense of excessive expenditure and the insidious corruption, not only of the souls. Mr President, wishing the President-in-Office of the Council well, I would ask you to be able to attach the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u109	Mr. Renzi, as mayor of Florence you will certainly know the importance of collaborators and the importance, in the choice, of belonging to your own political line. She did not stick to her line, surrendering to the Quirinale's wishes for the non-appointment of Nicola Gratteri to Guardasigilli, while they make us understand her true intentions, much more than her speech today, the people of her reference: Yoram Gutgeld, Marco Carrai, Marco Bernabè; for the economy Davide Serra. Mediobanca, De Benedetti and Caltagirone will be behind his decisions, as for years they have been behind the decisions of others. His reference to foreign policy is Michael Ledeen, the strategist of the CIA and the White House, who was the mind in the cold war of Reagan, the death squads in Nicaragua, advisor to SISMI for the strategy of tension and the war on terror of the Bush administration. What hope from this advice? You are here to ask us for trust, as President, without being elected by the citizens, as you promised in your election campaign.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u110	Conclude, Senator Blondo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u111	BLUNDO (M5S). You lied, as your predecessors lied, with false promises to rebuild L'Aquila with the scratch cards. The Eagle is not rebuilt and only the pathological dependence on the game has increased. We are waiting for certain funds and transparency for reconstruction, intervention for craftsmen, farmers, small businesses in Abruzzo and Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our Group will only make two speeches: the first is mine and the second is that of the Divine Vice-President. Let me tell you that our delegation has already heard our requests, so I do not think we need to repeat them. I also tell you that I think you are too smart not to know that you have come to this House today to tell us little. He has brushed, as I have heard from some colleagues, let us say that he has made a different choice: he has made the choice not to speak to this House, but to speak to those who are outside and watched it on television. I believe that this is a choice which can be made by media, but, Mr President, do not come here to make Candy Candy (please give me a reference to cartoons) because you are not Candy Candy either. So what you take today is a political responsibility. If you allow me to start briefly with a little excursus, which has a political sense, I think that Bersani should have been in that chair, but he couldn't sit down. There was Letta. You, Mr President, spoke to the people earlier, but the decision to send Letta away was taken by 136 people who were closed in the Nazarene street. It is not a criticism, but a fact: a week earlier, the House of Deputies had expressed, with a large majority, the vote of confidence to President Letta. So the choice is purely political and internal to the Democratic Party: you are also its secretary and therefore you take this political responsibility (for that matter, you have taken it). I think, however, that in politics there are passages linked to human relations, because politics is also made up of human relations, and the "passage of the bell" of yesterday, I think it has marked a historical passage in our way of living politics and relations in politics. Yesterday we saw the rupture of a human relationship. Then, with respect to the cunningness with which you wanted to appear in this Chamber today, at Gigliola Cincetti I want to answer with Leonardo Sciascia (I will do so as soon as you have finished reading on your mobile). I would therefore like to recall that part that everyone knows of the Day of the owl, in which Sciascia clearly tells what he believes to be the cataloguing of men. I do not repeat it all, but it starts with the men, the men and the men and the small men: the rest I do not say, because I am more likely to think of you than I am of this House. Everyone catalogs for where he wants to be; certainly some things that have been seen, even with respect to political and human relations, should make people think. Coming to your government, you didn't want to face some problems, on the contrary, I have to tell you that you didn't really deal with them. I would like to summarize what other Members have already mentioned: he did not talk about health, he did not talk about infrastructure, he did not talk about the environment, he did not talk about agriculture, he did not talk about Expo, he did not talk about exodus. And look (said by one of the League...) did not talk about the South (they have already reminded him). Perhaps he could have remembered the problem of the South with the words of President Napolitano, of whom he forgot to mention his name, even though he allowed him to be President of the Council. President Napolitano said that the South can recover and that it needs a blow of pride from the South. To define your government I had thought of two words (choose you): police station or conditional. I prefer conditional, because it seems more polite to you. It is a government conditioned by the powers of Europe. Speaking, I wondered whether to call it Renzi Government or Padoan Government. It is the Renzi Government; but Padoan certainly represents that Europe of banks, of the ECB, of everything a system that surely is what we do not like and that by now does not like many Italians even outside. One thing is certain: you were right not to point out a Minister for relations with Europe, since he has Europe at home, right there. He does not need to send someone, because the orders come through Padoan; there is no doubt about this. As well as there is no doubt that those who were passed by the press as endorsement were actually something different, that is, those that someone else called the "pizzini" with orders. On the other hand, a 60-year-old period ago, it could have been said that you were immediately prepared to reassure the German ally: no doubt in this case, because you undoubtedly have a problem with relations with Europe. They told you that Padoan knows what to do; well, yes, obviously I think that in this sentence there is absolutely everything that represents his Government. I would like to talk to you about your institutional proposals. Don't come here and play the game of saying that you want to do things and then there's the Senate that doesn't want to do them, so it's our fault. No, don't play this game, because, look, there are some things you can think about, while there are others, like your proposal on the Senate, that I consider an institutional obscenity. You might think of doing as in England, where there are 760 lords; we put them directly there and we solved the problem. I don't think that's the best choice, but I think there will be the terms and ways to deepen the issue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I think you couldn't choose the majority. Its majority has been induced by situations. Maybe he also chose not to choose the opposition (sorry the word game). He can still do it: he has the reply available. We expect that on some of the issues I have mentioned to you, adding federalism (which is the great unfinished one), we will be able to listen to arguments that give hope, even in some aspects of sensitivity that we have presented to you. Of course, its majority is not easy to hold together. I cannot say what others should say and what you know, as a good party secretary, even within your party. Certainly this majority will also play on other things. I imagine that the game of the Undersecretaries - just to talk about power - will be one of the steps that will allow you or not to live with tranquility. But even more, I would like to say to you, very carefully, since you are not Candy Candy, that there are 500 state seats. I call them so by synthesis, so outside they understand us: you know them well. Well, I don't know how he's gonna make those choices. I tell you one thing: if those choices are of a certain kind, to calm someone's souls, this will be a mistake. But it will be a mistake even if you choose only to please those in Europe who want to see the sale of the jewels that we still have at home, to do a favor to Germany, as has been asked to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I do not think that much can be added, but one last thing I would like to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I believe - and it is not a problem of laws, but an ethical problem - that yours is a government that has major conflicts of interest. It's obvious. There are confindustria elements, among other things also with personal relationships of a certain type. There is the representation of cooperatives. I do not want to offend anyone, Mr President, and it is not a personal attack, but when we talk about work we know that there is a difficult representation in cooperatives and there are solutions to be found. Someone would call it wage dumping. Think about it. I think it's a problem to deal with. There are important cooperatives, the cooperative system that affects insurance and, then, banks. I believe, therefore, that there are some conflicts of interest. To me he does not call any publisher: sometimes the one from Padania, but he has less power than De Benedetti and, therefore, we settle for the little Padania and, perhaps, her, De Benedetti. I would like to say one last thing: if you will allow me, Mr President, I think I can give you a personal and not political advice: the strong powers, the European powers, those with the great kingdoms invent the instruments, but when the instruments wear out, they throw themselves away. Be careful not to get thrown away. I conclude with a joke, and I hope he won't take it. She asks for confidence in the days of carnival, and I answer her, as she said on another occasion Bersani: "Dear Renzi hashtag: we already know you, mask!" [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u113	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u114	President of the Council, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the New Right Centre certainly does not lack the courage, when the future of the country is at stake and today, choosing to vote for the trust of its government, we show what is really dear to us. Our party will not miss its support even in this delicate political phase, because we are convinced that the state of emergency that has characterized the economic and social situation of our country in recent years is not - unfortunately - completely outdated and because, despite the first signs of an economic recovery, let me say it, Mr President, also thanks to the activity of Government of its predecessor - we are convinced that the country needs more than ever a strong Executive, able to act on two equally demanding and indispensable fronts: that of reforms and that of development and growth. Reforms and growth, two major issues that require a great commitment and above all a decision-making force that at this moment, due to the conditions given, can only be guaranteed by a solid parliamentary majority, committed in agreement to restore to the country the stability it deserves and to politics the credibility it deserves. On the first front, that of reforms, the New Right Center has the clear ideas: we are for the reform of bicameralism equal and for the constitution of a Senate representative of the territories, we are for the reform of Title V of the Constitution and for the direct election of the Head of the Executive, we are for an electoral law that in addition to guaranteeing a stability of the Governments, also restore to the voters the ability to choose their representatives. On these premises, which we know to be for the most part the objectives of this Government, we are ready to make a decisive contribution to making those reforms that Italy has been waiting for decades and to deliver to the future a country finally governable. Constitutional reforms will restore credibility to the country and politics, but they alone will not be enough to respond to the cry of alarm that comes to us from families, traders, small entrepreneurs, who cannot make further sacrifices because they have already given everything. We must respond to them with concrete actions and reforms that will allow us to grasp these first, timid positive signs to restart the economy and boost employment. We must have the courage to make difficult choices, to break ideological walls, to finally break corporate resistances, to turn the page permanently, to return to our children (I, like you, have three small ones, President, and I know what it means to make policies for the future rather than for the present) the hope of having the chance to live in what remains a wonderful country. How? That's the deciding knot. First of all, by sharing policies for work, which restore it a dignity. It is a matter of starting from what is good in our productive and entrepreneurial fabric, from that positive anthropology that does not make us doubt our neighbor but that makes us believe in it. We put workers and entrepreneurs around a table and let them negotiate at company or intercompany level, as long as possible, the working conditions that engage them. We intervene on the cost of labour, resetting, for goodness sake, the false departure on the taxation of the Bots, but looking for resources from the cuts to the expense, from new privatizations and liberalizations, from the agreements with Switzerland. We increase the employment opportunities of our young people by strengthening the policies that already exist for apprenticeships and simplifying their procedures. Young people need to work, but they also need to know that, through the transmission of knowledge from one generation to the next, solid and responsible professional figures are created. Let us breathe in the entrepreneurial freedom of our national talents: it is enough to guarantee three years of zero bureaucracy to free up positive energies for society. We value and protect the role of freelance professionals; we do not entangle them into unnecessary and counterproductive bureaucracy. But above all, we bring the family back to the center of our attention and our political passion. For us - I would like to stress this - the family can only be the natural one founded on the marriage of a man and a woman; to it we must guarantee real facilities, real deductions, real support for the first house. We liked to hear the President-in-Office use words of alarmed attention to the school, the conditions in which Italian schools live; to know that his journey as Head of Government will start right from the desks of a school and not from those of an institutional chamber. We hope, however, that his concerns go beyond the urgency linked to the fate of the structures: that he also takes care of what the school transmits to our children, of the contents that are conveyed between the benches, because we of the New Right Center are convinced that the wealth of a society originates from that educational pact that unites parents, teachers and children in a line of coherence and sharing in the name of the principles of our tradition. One last point I would like to make about Europe, because many of the challenges of our policy are being played on this front. From Europe we must demand more respect for our geopolitical and geo-economic role, starting with the definition of a border to be protected together. To do all this the team is the right one: competent politicians and authoritative technicians and many women endowed with that healthy concreteness that must be the characteristic trait of this Government. So, President of the Council, for all these reasons, the New Right Centre has decided to play face with you. It is not unconditional trust, but responsible trust. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u115	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u116	Do you remember the amendment Chiavaroli-Giorgetti? The one who punished the mayors opponents of the slot machines? It happened to me that we denounced in this House what we had discovered with our colleagues in the Budget Committee. But, days later, Renzi took credit for having made the decree lapse. However, its Renzians in the Budget Committee voted for the reopening of the condoning slot machines. Only after the first press agencies returned, they asked for it to be withdrawn: the colleagues did not rage, but they went out with their bronze face to take credit for it with the press. You see, we control it is fine, but passing the palette where we point is a little bit to ask for trust. He could at least clearly give Alberto Giorgetti, the curator of the lobby. Do it. You see why we don't talk to you, Renzi, or enemies-friends De Benedetti-Berlusconi, your political leaders. We're motivating citizens because you don't deserve to be trusted, but if your ears were whistling, well, it's a lot of money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u117	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u118	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as Luca Ricolfi said, among ordinary people who are not ill with political faction, nobody hopes for their failure. Forza Italia has never been sick of fate and so we do not wish her, as an old guru of the radical chic left did, to end up shot and thrown into the Tiber. Presenting the list of ministers, you quoted the De Gasperi Government, but you immediately specified that you did not want to compare yourself to him. That's good. Those who know her know that she is not De Gasperi, but neither does Gasperino the slab, as some preconceived opponent tends to spottishly describe her. You firmly wanted to get to Palazzo Chigi without going through the popular vote and this makes its start politically more fragile, but we recognize it as a merit, President: that of wanting to close the civil war declared by the left in Berlusconi, thus declining a concept of democracy that provides for mutual legitimacy between political opponents. Having invited the opposition leader to the seat of his party, against the will of the majority of his party, was a courageous act that broke that unwritten convention that blocked Italian democracy for 20 years. However, we are now asking you to follow up on this and to comply with the pact signed, quickly approving the first agreed reform, which is the electoral reform. Times in politics are everything and you teach us that, President. In politics the arithmetic rule does not apply that by reversing the order of factors, the product does not change. It certainly changes: the electoral law is the first urgency, because it is urgent to put the system in safety so as not to risk going back to the vote with the Porcellum scissors from the Consulta. If you betrayed this first commitment, it would become less credible about everything else. In your speech today, you said that you wanted to respect the agreements at the time and in the manner set out above. We expect subsequent acts in Parliament by the majority who support it. You, Mr President, were very good at your irresistible rise to sow illusions and you are well aware that if these were to turn into as many disappointments, yours would be a short parable. He was able to win the leadership of the Democratic Party, heir to the old PC, almost without injury. This reminds me - I quote "War and peace" - of the very rapid conquest of Moscow by Napoleon and I wonder how many generals Kutuzov of the old nomenclature are about to enter into action. Now comes the moment of events and no one will give them discounts, first of all his party. Your first enemy, however, will be bureaucracy and I think you are aware of it. It is the bureaucracy that really has in hand the apparatus of the Government, adding indecipherable posts to legal provisions that become so illogical, incongruent and contradictory to the point of nullifying the very sense of a reform, sterilizing it and bewildering the public opinion that then unfailingly blames the inept politics. For almost 20 years it has always been the same high ministerial bureaucrats who count more than governments and parliaments, just like the guild of magistrates. It is a non-elective power that always influences everything and we would have expected clearer words from you about the reform of justice: if we do not recognize that there is a part of the judiciary in this country that is politicized and writes political sentences, the problem does not solve itself at the root. President, the last 20 years was not just an ideological derby, but a game of make-up where the referee always whistled on one side. We would have expected stronger words about Equitalia, a moloch that doesn't care about the crisis and that all too often infers on the weakest. The double-digit reduction of the tax wedge is fine, but the real point is to repeal the Fornero reform in depth, which has tightened up, rather than making it less flexible, the way in which people enter the world of work. It will also be true, as you said in this House, that Europeanists are the best part of our country, but it is clear that what we are experiencing is the Europe of bureaucrats and not of peoples and that undeveloped austerity has brought benefits only to Merkel and widespread poverty and not prosperity. The Euroburocracy - let us not be fooled - will not discount them, but we expect at least that Italy will benefit from what was granted to Germany in 2003: loosening the deficit-GDP ratio in exchange for structural reforms; otherwise Italy, after the Renzi Government, will still be poor and kneeling like the one left by Presidents Monti and Letta. It would then be irresponsible to tax the savings, Mr President: those of the middle class have already been drained. In this respect, we expect from your speech a reassuring word on the BOTs. You've always been used to challenges. If he hadn't challenged his party in Florence, he wouldn't be here today. But building is much harder than defying and breaking. One thing is to pedestrianize piazza Duomo in Florence, another is to restart the Tranvia Italia. Ours will be a constructive opposition, because the worse the better is not in our DNA. But we will not give you discounts, President: if yours is a bluff, we will do anything to expose him and give the word back to the sovereign people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u119	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u120	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your report you stressed the dual challenge facing the Government: institutional reforms on the one hand, the revival of the economy on the other, two closely interwoven plans. To deal with them, we need a slim agenda, with clear priorities. You have indicated several today. At the moment I would like to highlight some of them which relate more closely to the aspects of the economy. The central problem is work, and it is certainly true. But in our country there is a big problem upstream to be solved: that of the presence of a high public debt and a low growth. This is where the very high debt-to-GDP ratio comes from. We must get rid of this atavistic ballast and, in order not to repeat the errors of the austerity phase of recent years, the path to be taken is in some way obliged: the relaunch at full rate of growth. But how? The recovery is certainly not enough: it is a fragile and slow recovery. According to the most recent estimates, it is at low rates, around 0.5-0.6 percent. In fact, two steps are needed to relaunch growth: short-term measures to provide macro-economic support to the market and domestic demand; and others, structural reforms, which can affect the structural weaknesses that have long limited the growth capacity of our economy in the medium term. These two sets of measures are both necessary at this stage and, in some way, complementary because they affect both demand and supply. They must therefore be launched in parallel, but for this reason it is necessary to choose a few decisive measures to support each other; which requires an overall strategy, an overall perspective, not a simple list of measures. As regards the first group of interventions, those which have been supporting the internal market for far too long, you mentioned two: loosening the credit crunch and speeding up the payment of public debt. I would add a third: to amend the Internal Stability Pact for local authorities, because there are many investments in small useful works that can be relaunched. Of these three measures, the top priority, Mr President, must be to relaunch credit. There is no chance of returning to growth without a return of financial intermediation to the real economy. On the second side, the measures to remove structural factors, it is good that you have already announced three of these reforms: the labour plan; tax reform, with a strong cut in the tax wedge; simplification and organisational restructuring of the public administration. Again, I would add a third order of measures: the political and structural measures needed to promote the restructuring and restructuring of enterprises. There is no time to waste, Mr President, because there has been some deep erosion of our industrial base for a long time and there is the possibility of the survival of thousands and thousands of companies at stake. Of course, resources and times of implementation of these selected interventions are all to be defined and verified, but it will still be important to start and incarnate some of these reforms for the game to play in Europe. It is necessary to renegotiate between spaces of growth and financial rigour, taking advantage of the Italian guide of the European semester. It is a vital negotiation to relaunch our economy. We must play both by trying to review the margins of flexibility that are granted to us by European rules, and by promoting with other countries a change of our policies in Europe, because this is in some way required by the situation of stagnation that is emerging over the coming years. I would conclude by saying that it will be up to the government you are chairing to take on a driving role to promote this new course, both within and in Europe. The stakes are very high, since the future of our country is at stake. The Group of the Democratic Party will make the most contribution and full support. Good work, ma'am. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u121	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u122	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Civic Choice for months, starting from the break-up of the broad understanding on which the Letta Government had been formed, has continued to call, with obsessive and daily insistence, for the Commission's action to be relaunched with a coalition pact in which they were written, black and white, objectives, instruments and times for the implementation of the reforms necessary to give back impetus to our economy. Civic Choice repeated it, he insisted and I would say that, at a certain point, he almost begged Prime Minister Letta, so that he finally came out of the immobilism in which he had bogged down and that he risked drowning with the Government also Italy and the shy recovery that began to glimpse himself from the indicators of the international economy. Without the election route, because it is impossible, as you have rightly observed, without a new electoral law and because it is incomprehensible in the middle of the European semester, only this Government could try to give the country that drive and hope in the future without which no policy, however virtuous and dynamic, can delude itself to revive our economy. So, not a conspiracy, not a betrayal, but the urgency to shock Italy is the real reason for the birth of its Government. It's economy, stupid, said a great democratic leader like Bill Clinton. You have understood this and - we must acknowledge this - you have done it with courage, speed and a few doses, perhaps inevitable, of unscrupulousness. And for the same reason (because it is on the economy that the citizens decide), in the end will be the results, in terms of reduction of unemployment and recovery of consumption, the ground on which your Government will be judged and the only way to make Italians forget also the path, to many not appreciated, through which you arrived at Palazzo Chigi: the only reason why Italians will be convinced that it was worth it. Today, actually, we would have expected that Excel paper that you promised and that we haven't seen yet. It has given us the titles of reforms, which we share, but we would like a greater detail of content and implementation times. Reforms are in fact the reason why we support your Government: because radical and courageous reforms are the DNA of our movement. With what resources do you plan to fund policies to restore dignity to school and teachers? How do you intend to finance a plan for the protection of the territory? How to cover the two-digit reduction (and I did not understand whether the two figures are in percentage or in absolute terms) of the reduction of the tax wedge? What job reform does he have in mind, and what liberalisations? This is a subject which - it seems to me - you have completely ignored, and we are very sorry about that. We hope that, in the absence of details at this stage, those distinctions will not emerge in the coalition which, when it comes to moving on to the moment of action, each time have blocked the reforms, because we expect a real change from you. Change is your government's body language. If women and young people have come to lead Italy, if we have a Government of European physiognomy, then we can be a normal Country: this is the message that he wanted to give to Italy in the composition of the Government. The message is strong, but we believe that youth and beauty must combine with competence and experience, with rigour and transparency: elements that, in some ministerial boxes, we believe are insufficient. We will assess the work of individual ministers, their determination, their freedom from lobbying and guilds. We hope - and indeed we urge you to do so - that it will follow the same criteria of strong renewal when it comes to deciding on appointments in large public societies. And so we will judge you and your ministers to the test of the facts. The facts we expect are first of all a serious relationship with Europe, not focused on the 3% derogation (a derogation that should still be linked to reforms and, therefore, to a credible expectation of growth growth), since the emphasis on overcoming 3% risks being an alibi not to make reforms and accredit the idea that, with public spending, growth will start again, when it is not. We know, you know, and we'd like you to explain it to the country. In Europe we would like an ambitious and proud Italy that, thanks to the structural consolidation of the public accounts carried out in recent years and the reforms undertaken by the Monti and Letta governments that you will carry on, indicates to Europe the path of growth started with the adoption of the Growth Pact and with the breakthrough marked in June 2012 thanks to the decisive role of Italy; an Italy that must be again protagonist, who does not ask but guides and guides. In this respect, Mr President, you are certainly aware that Parliament has introduced very important pro-growth measures over the last year and a half, some of which you yourself have mentioned and which are already law: payment of public administration debts; guarantee of company credits; support for research, technology and start-up. These measures have all been unfailingly bogged down in the meandering of ministerial bureaucracy. You know - and that is why you referred to the issue of PA credits - that in Spain one-shot returns were essential to restore liquidity to the system, just as it is essential today to reform the labour market in order to attract new investments to the country. It is precisely for this reason that the Ministers' ability to guide and guide bureaucratic machinery on the political objectives that the Government and Parliament have decided upon will be crucial. The tools are there: you have to use them with determination and competence. The separation between politics and administration, introduced into our system after bribes, requires that politics, in full autonomy, plays its role, and does not fall into a collusive exchange with the high bureaucracy, as has often happened until today. Another priority for us is the reduction of the tax wedge, which is achieved, of course, by remodulating the tax burden between rents, production and work; and, however, no increase in any tax will be acceptable to us if not accompanied by a simultaneous reduction in expenditure. On this subject titles and dossiers are known and mature even before Cottarelli arrived: radical cut of public societies, on which the mayors, who are its important constitution, have great responsibilities; reorganization of the offices of the State on the territory (the dossier is in the hands of the undersecretary Delrio), which we must do immediately and not postpone until after the reform of Title V; rationalization of the police forces and radical reduction of administrative levels. Today, even nine people are burdened with it: it is crushed, unarmed, by this mountain of bureaucracy. We must totally change the perspective of simplification adopted over the last 15 years, because the problem is not to transfer from law to regulations a flood of rules, but to reduce the number of people who produce rules and who decide, making it clear to citizens who do what. Again, I quote the digital agenda, mother of all changes in public administration. Mr President, the delegitimization of politics and populism are born from here: from not having been able to do what was to be done. Perhaps you will remember when, in 2005, at a conference organized by the party in which we both fought, we discussed the courage of reforms. The reforms to be made then were practically the same as you, nine years later, listed today, here, in this House. It is up to you, with your government, to change the conviction, rooted by now in the majority of our citizens, the impotence and the futility of politics: if you do not succeed, if we do not succeed, it will not only be the Senate that will be reduced, but it will be the entire institutional system that will be overwhelmed by anti-politics. For this reason you are expected to try to do: on this ground - you can rest assured - Civic Choice will not only stand on your side, but will be very, very demanding. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u123	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u124	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, since the time allocated to me does not allow me to make extensive discussions, I shall briefly deal with some of the main points of your speech. I listened carefully to his intervention by arm, which in these minutes the print praises as a distinctive and breaking element compared to the established liturgies of the past. I also think of this element of discontinuity with regard to the past, but in a diametrically opposite sense: never speech - allow me - was so general in the history of the speeches of the Presidents of the Council. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] You have probably spoken not to this House and to the senators, nor to those who are defined as ordinary citizens, often on the basis of the great issues and problems from which the current economic crisis originates, enveloped to face the uneasiness and harshness of a life that has become grudging, with less work, less money and less hope in the future for their children. 20.57 (Follow D'ANNA). I have not been able to point out a concrete indication of the course that she intends to follow in order to realize the stated intention to reform the State or that Copernican revolution which she is proud of and which should mark the epochal turning point in Italian politics. Mr President, I say this clearly, but with great affection and without any periphrase: I fear you have a rushing idea of the state and a still rough idea of the problems and have an opportunist approach to politics. What state can ever reform the one who does not mention or indicate the state models to be reformed and, less so, the institutions that should take over the old models? Where are the references to the socio-economic model that should be established by the reformed State and in Italian society? His exposition - allow me, with great respect - seemed to me the letter that Pasqualino wrote to his parents in Eduardo's famous comedy "Christmas in the Cupillo house": he also wanted to change, but he did not have the way or the ability to indicate how to do it. I asked his predecessor, President Letta, what kind of government he was called to preside over - a liberal, socialist or social-democratic government - and what ideas were there to reform the state, public administration, school, health and transport: I did not have a response and that government, in recent months, has sailed on sight, has given birth to warm diapers and measures of small cabotage, aimed at dealing with the emergencies of the moment. Let us be clear, Mr Prime Minister: your ambitions to reform the state are shared and shared, but you must reform an omnipresent and omnipotent state and therefore, you need a cultural, political and economic vision that has not been traced in your speech in this House. Let me tell you that you are the secretary of the largest left-wing party and you have a duty to tell your voters and the Democratic Party military that the statist and social-democratic model is miserably failed and that the reform of the state requires a change of models and economic horizons: either you represent the crusade point between the old state-centric model-bolso, redundant, bureaucratic, inefficient and establishes a minimal but efficient state, devoid of bureaucracy, liberalised, which adopts in every sector principles and criteria of efficiency, productivity, competence, merit and economicity, or you are humbling not only your voters, but the Italian people. I don't think so. However, I believe that the crisis is the daughter of the pervasive state. I paid homage to a book written by economist Nicola Rossi, a former MP of the Democratic Party, entitled "Subsidies," which describes a State devoid of any liberality in which citizens are subject and subject to the State itself. Nicola Rossi left the left as he realized that in that political part the dominant culture was impervious to the ideas of liberalism in politics and the free market... PRESIDENT. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL). I'm not going any further. I believe we have understood each other and you, in your reply, will be able to tell us what model of state you are proposing. If I may, however, in 30 seconds... Excuse me, but you are not allowed, because the time at your disposal is already over. D'ANNA (GAL). So let me just say one thing. Don't be afraid to change. Don't be afraid to change. But do so in the proper sense, because Italy is full of reformists who do not know how to reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u125	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is an unconditional confidence that our country needs. It is a trust without conditions that Italy asks for, precisely because it is that Italy that deserves described by her at the beginning of her speech. He deserves because he still tries; he deserves because he tries despite the enemy, perhaps more insidious and probably formidable, he always equals before her and that enemy will also be enemy of his Government. That enemy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is ideology. It is the ideology that has not only blocked the country in the last 20 years, but has also eroded the potential of governments that were to be of necessity and service, that were to ideally benefit from granite majorities, and that instead have stranded against the power of this instrument of which we do not have the courage to reveal the pernicious abilities. What do I mean when I say that ideology is our enemy? I start from the statements you have made, from the titles you have listed and that are not only acceptable but, at this moment, inescapable: from the title of the school, for example. What does it mean that ideology aims at the bet this country intended to do on school? We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have done the school reform four times over the last 18 years. Minister Berlinguer made it, Minister Moratti made it, Minister Fioroni made it, Minister Gelmini made it. What has changed in the school? We realize that generations have been sent to the streets withered by the fact that they presented themselves to the appointment with the contestation and that those reforms, in reality, have never been aired, have never become operational, have never found any feedback? And then, the bet that we all want to make on education together can be such if you make the leap in quality and will make us able to look the real problem in the eyes. Before we even talk about new investments, I would like to remind you that expenditure on school for 98 percent consists of fixed expenditure. So, what margins do we have, if we don't look into the eyes of the real evil of this section of our welfare? I mean that if we continue to discuss ideologically the state school and not the state school, we will not be able to understand what state and society can do together to contribute to the common good. We carry the weight of ideology behind us, and this has paralysed other sections of public life. We all want the reform of justice: how will we do it, if we do not bring down the weight of ideology? We all want to ensure that work becomes an opportunity for everyone and gives a generation a guarantee. How are we gonna do those reforms if the ideology isn't ravaged? So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the enthusiasm you referred to, which seems to be your most relevant quality, let's play it at this level. Let us really put it all together so that the ideology is distraught and the confrontation in this Parliament does not disperse in common places, but knows how to deal with the issue of the common destiny of a generation for which, if the comfort of the credibility of politics is lacking, the real hashtag will not be the good thing, but it will be the last beach. I would also like us to enter into the substance of the content of this challenge, which goes through the challenges linked to the programmes and is at the heart of the institutional and constitutional context. How is Italy perceived outside of us? It is perceived as a football field where we play rugby with the rules of basketball; a place, that is, where confusion increases because we seem definitively incapable of putting hand in good to our destiny. So it is true that there has been a broad agreement on the electoral law, but that law - as my colleague Mr Nencini said - is also called to face decisive challenges. If the reform of the Senate is also to be started together; if changing the structure of the state and making electoral law together also means talking about balancing powers and realizing that Parliament will have to be the same that then elects the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Consulta, which in short makes a contribution to the scenario that holds with it the issues of justice and civil coexistence, how can you imagine rules that exclude someone from the context of the gain of consent (I am not talking about the minor parties)? How can we claim to prohibit, within a rigidly biparty or even biparty mechanism, what reality - with which I share nothing, none of the ideas they profess - that at this moment are 25% of the consent given in the country, can by definition be excluded from the possibility of victory? I say this as a true cry, because the battle for consent that we are called to carry out must give everyone the opportunity to see their chances recognized. Along with this, how is it possible that we understand that with a few votes we have almost all the power available? I have said that this Government needs all the confidence it can have, without conditions, that it is given in full hands so that, through enthusiasm, one can guarantee the destiny of a generation. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that we must have the courage to hold a full debate on the fundamental rules and to understand that the efficiency of democracy always passes through the solidity of the rules, guarantees and obligations towards the institutions. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that the confrontation, albeit sudden, fast and intense, will be true, that is, it will be open to understanding and listening to the reasons of others, so that dialogue is not simply what I take a step towards you and you do it towards me and we agree. If one says nonsense and the other confirms it and agrees, the fate of that generation is lost. Instead, it must be a careful dialogue, aimed at bringing out the reasons for all: the reasons for that common good that is indisputable and therefore deserves that there are no doubts in granting trust to this Government and trust to our country. [[Applause from the PI Group and the Senators Mancuso and Bianconi. Congratulations.]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u126	Madam President, Prime Minister, today I very much appreciated your speech, and particularly when you referred to concreteness, to the time that is not an independent variable. In my experience as a local administrator, as a mayor, I can only appreciate it, because I know what it means to be in daily contact with citizens and the expectations that citizens today have towards those who work in the institutions. It is also true, however, that in this experience as a senator I am doing, I realize that the real challenge you are throwing to your Government, to us Members of Parliament, so that we can really put our hands on all the mechanisms, regulations and reforms, and this must be done with a sense of loyalty to the institutions and to those young generations to which you referred. What it means to make sense, yes, political, to its Government which, together with Parliament, must give answers, above all, to the citizens, that is, to solve the problems. In this sense his will be a political government and with this he will do a great service to the younger generations. It is also true that alongside the government of the country, that the sense of loyalty and responsibility makes us consider, even in this political passage, a priority, there are two other elements that as a representative of the Group for the Autonomousists and spokesperson in Parliament of a territorial and popular party such as the Union for Trentino I feel to emphasize. The first essential element is the enhancement of the special autonomy that, in the case of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, comes not only from a geographical location of border or historical contingency: the special autonomy of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol is not a concession, but the recognition of an attitude to self-government, which means not only having more resources, but the possibility to manage them better, to better manage the competences and statutory prerogatives, in a logic of community governance and particularly complex situations. For this reason we believe that our experience can be laboratory and experimentation for a new model of modern and effective state. We hope, therefore, to continue with your Government the work begun with the current undersecretary to the Graziano Delrio Presidency, and in this I refer to what has been defined in the law of stability and to the agreements that have begun to find a solution to the numerous disputes that have been there with our territories. Also with regard to the reform of Title V, I hope that it will be proposed in a balanced logic, because we certainly cannot accept that it leads to a new state centralism, which I do not think is the answer. The second political element that I want to emphasize at the moment in which I express my confidence is that of the recognition of the value of autonomy and territories in general, that is, the value - to put it in the words of De Rita or Bonomi - of that horizontal logic represented by the capacity of communities, intermediate bodies to produce synthesis between interests, between sensibilities, between needs and also between dreams. Today you spoke of a dream, but it is also true that there is not a single general dream in which everyone recognizes himself at the start: there are so many dreams, often different and sometimes alternative. I believe that good politics through the territories, the autonomy, the communities, must be able to produce a dream shared by all who, as such, become a possible goal. That is why we invite you to pursue a policy and choices that favor a virtuous pact between the Government and the territories. Only in this way will we be able to regain a strong sense of common belonging and to regain credibility in the relationship between citizens and institutions at all levels. Good job. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u127	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u128	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, we in the Left have not shared the birth of your Government, for reasons of method and merit, which, moreover, seem even greater to us after listening to your speech today. Of course, I would like to say this right away, and that is not why we have some form of regret for the Letta Government, which seemed completely inadequate to us from the outset, but that, Mr President, it had other emergency features than your Government, which you have reminded us today to be a parliamentary political government. We contended with that government because we considered it completely incapable of responding to the anxiety of change that had marked the general elections, and we also considered it responsible for accentuating the furrow that was created in the country, between public opinion and politics. Yet, the inability of that Government to give answers, even partial, to the great crisis and to the social drama that is going through the country today does not seem overcome by its intervention today, in which unfortunately, in our opinion, there is not an adequate analysis of the deep and structural reasons that have caused the crisis, for example on what happened to the industrial policy of the country; also the key of reading it offers on privatizations seems to us already said many times and frankly very little innovative. You see, Mr President, over the last few months, we at SEL have tried to oppose the measures in a serious and rigorous way, remaining light years away from the demagogy and cynicism of other oppositions, to which we feel equally distinct and which we also feel are responsible for the outcome that occurred after the vote. For these reasons too, Mr President, despite the political and programmatic distance that exists between us and you, and of course with all due respect to another party from ours, we had looked with hope at your victory at the primaries of your party, because it seemed to us an important return to participation, after what it had produced. That day had in fact seemed to us a positive and important response to the broad understandings, to the betrayal of those who in the secret of the urn blocked the way to the election of Romano Prodi and broke the project of "Italy." Common good: a way, in short, to reconnect the threads of a lost sentimental connection. This is also why we were adversely affected by his first moves: he did not convince us of the gift he gave to Silvio Berlusconi, in restoring a political centrality, and also an electoral law, such as the one we are discussing, much based on an easy propaganda - let me say this - a proposal that we hope this Parliament can change, first of all for the sake of democracy in this country. Because in politics the method counts very much, because it is the means that very often determine the end, it has not convinced us even the maneuver of the last few days, with a political crisis consumed far from the places that the Constitution, but also common sense, consider formal and natural. It was instead a crisis played outside Parliament, in the rooms of a party, as a tradition of a certain Republic that we thought we had behind us. You say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that no one will remember those days in a few months' time, because the reforms that this Government will be able to make, to cancel and to make forget that wrong method will be so important. I hope and I hope to Italy first of all, because the problem - excuse me - is not simply whether you lose face or not, but whether Italy will emerge from the crisis and whether you will be able to respond to an explosive social situation. It is obvious that if this were the case, our support for individual measures would not be lacking, but let us be at least sceptical - and after your speech today we are even more so - about this ambition. Its parliamentary majority is the same as it was before, indeed today it is a political majority and it is certainly not the one that has won the regional elections in recent months, as you mentioned in your introduction this afternoon. You wanted to choose continuity with the Letta Government, confirming some important and weighty Ministers (such as the Minister of the Interior, who yourself criticized for the bad management of the Shalabayeva case) and removing instead who had been a positive symbol of integration. Still, within this government we seem to see some cases of conflict of interest. Equally obvious - I say this also and especially as a southern Member - is the total disaffection to South Italy, to its social desertification, to the productive crisis of the last twenty years. If the South dies, the whole country dies, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I really wanted to hear something about that. She didn't even want to verify the practicability of another playground, alternative to this. He should have had much more courage, because it is not enough, as an element of counter-trend, the positive, very positive novelty of gender equality. He really should have tried to practice that cultural turning point, which remains, in its present state, only an evocation. You wanted to ensure continuity with the Letta Government and also with many dogmas of the economic policies of these years, as if history had not taught anything, as if it had not rejected them without appeal, as if those policies, including the so-called third way, to which you often refer, had not been part of the problem and not of the solution. As if they were not, in the end, very uninnovative.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u129	You should finish, Senator De Cristofaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u130	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm done, Madam President. Italy and Europe do not need conservation, recipes that have created social inequality and inequality; they need to change actually and take the right path that your Minister of the Interior probably confused yesterday. For us the right path is always the same: it means cutting down the F-35, reducing military spending, investing in public school, hitting financial incomes and not small savers, distributing citizenship income, promoting an extraordinary plan for work. I believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after listening to you, that your Government will not be able to do this. I hope I am wrong, of course, and I hope so for the good of the country, but I take advantage of the pessimism of reason rather than the optimism of will. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u131	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u132	Thank you, Madam President. You see, President Renzi, Italy has long been in unstable equilibrium on a ridge, risking falling into an abyss, and here you are preparing to launch the most improvised government in the history of our Republic. Every action or word - you should know it - involves implications and consequences. Unwisely stating that you will tax your financial income further can trigger extremely serious reactions. Undersecretary Delrio, it is not the elderly woman with 100,000 euros the problem, but it is the 100,000 elderly with 2,000-3,000 euros of savings, that can also compromise the next subscriptions of our emissions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President Renzi, do you know that every month we have to have an average of 6 to 9 billion BOTs signed (we are not talking about other titles)? We therefore try to understand the significance of an unjustified alarm, as has already been the case with your Government. In this country it would be time to end with the slogans. You know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italians are fed up with chatter; they want incisive action and also some serious action. A government that bounces the national leadership of the PD within the Executive leaves much perplexity. Fidelity that prevails over skills - this is the conclusion that we draw - is not a serious thing. Europe is surrounded by areas of criticality and conflict. We see Bosnia boiling and Ukraine not stabilized yet; we know Syria, the Libyan crises, Egypt, the Middle East, Afghanistan, and finally India and the events of our held rifles (we know them well). A situation such as this would mean that foreigners would be entrusted with a character of extreme and important international importance. We - you in this case - send a good person instead. Doing what? Learn Farnesina? But you don't get an apprenticeship at Farnesina, President. Does that seem appropriate to you? Does this sound serious to you? You see, President Renzi, we think that a person who fails his word cannot even be credible when he lists his commitments or promises. The fratricide that you have consumed in your home cannot be archived overnight. I also remember the endless assurances: "The government will last eighteen months, dear Enrico you are serene: we will never enter the government without an investiture with the popular vote". President Renzi, you bring to mind an old German chancellor, named Konrad Adenauer, who was not inclined to respect his commitments and went to history for a famous phrase that more or less recited this way: "What do you want me to care about those four nonsenses that I said the day before yesterday?" Frankly, Mr President, your report has been a disappointment. Never, in about an hour and fifteen minutes of speech by a President-in-Office of the Council have we heard only general assessments, those that are basically done in bars. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] You have come here to speak to the press, to television, to make your own committee of the obvious, but not to explain a parliamentary programme to an Italian Parliament. You spoke, with great pathos, of five personal phone calls that you said you had received (true, false or invented that they were of little interest to us), which can be good for a broadcast conducted by De Filippi, not for the Senate of the Italian Republic, dear President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] You spoke of school and kindergartens; we understand that you may have some direct experience there, but you did not speak a single word as President of the Council for those thousands and thousands of companies that are at risk of failure today. Not a word about that! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] You tell us that you would like to attract foreign capital to Italy; very well, but how, did you forget to tell us? You know, President, why don't foreign capital come to our country? Because in our country it costs too much to produce. The euro literally knocked us down, killed us. If you, President Renzi, really had the courage you said you had, you would have said anything else. He would have said that ten years ago in Italy those who had an income of 2 million lire lived very well; he would also have said that today with the same figure, with 1000 euros, it is almost hungry. If you had courage, you would have said that if we could devalue our currency according to our needs, we would have a boom in exports, we would have a boom in demand for Italian domestic products and foreign capital would be attracted and invested by us, but this is prevented by the European rules on the euro. Why doesn't he have the courage to say these things that are then sacring truths? Mr President, allow me to ask you two questions, and if you have the opportunity, you will answer me: where have you lived so far? You say that we need more rigour for those who cause road accidents, in respect of the victims. That's right, and we sign it. But we forget, Mr President, that your party has proposed in this House not one, but two measures that are emptying our prisons from those few who still end up in prison today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Don't make fun of us! I have a second question, President; where was it in 2006 when the reforms of Title V and the Federal Senate were prepared by a League and Center-Right Government, after four hard readings? I'm telling you, you were campaigning for your party in favour of the referendum that then abolished these reforms. And today, ironically, he comes here and proposes the same same things, with the emphasis of those who seem to have even invented them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] To be honest, President, you also mentioned among the last victorious electoral responses for the PD the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. A tip: call the head of its electoral office because, look, in Trento you have even patched up in the primaries; the leadership of the Province ended up in the head of the Trentino Automanist Party and in Bolzano you are not making the crutch, the crutch - because it is not even necessary - the overflowing power of the Südtiroler Volkspartei. This is only because he takes a note because perhaps things are not even reported correctly. Look, Italicum is not a priority, as you claim; the priorities are many others: lower taxation; you study the curve of Laffer - it has near an economist that you can explain - that our country has largely exceeded; you go and look at the results of the dry coupon already in force for 2011 and 2012, which, while lowering the rate of the levy to 21 and 19 percent, has caused overall revenue above the previous years. This is the way, but not for fantasies; these are objective data. 21.32 (Follow DIVINE). President, in conclusion, we see in this Government a great, great gamble. We have understood that you are an excellent, indeed you are a master of the board to ride the waves, but know that the waves always end up breaking either on the coast or on the rocks and also know that we will not let our country crash on the rocks but we will bring down the Italians in time, while, if you really want, with your table you can also continue to have fun and follow your destiny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u133	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u134	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, anyone entering the municipal palace of Cesena, my city, will be able to read in the hall of the city council a paper of an anonymous nineteenth-century French still extremely topical. The paper is composed of three warnings. The first: "Governants remember that rulers of men". It is an extremely simple sentence but of great value from the point of view of responsibility, because with our choices we enter people's lives and, depending on the choices we make, we change their lives. Our actions affect people of whom we will never know the face or the name, but to whom we could facilitate in good or bad, enhance, support and condition family, work and social life. The second warning reminds us that "Governar" will have to read "Governar": our main task is to write clear, well-written and error-free laws. Too often we have to correct previously voted articles of laws. We should write laws that can be understood by every single citizen. The law is an expression of organized society and is never neutral; the law also has a pedagogical function, it is a powerful instrument that affects in one way or another (always and in any case) in society and in every single person. Finally, the anonymous French reminds us that as Rulers you will not rule forever. This sentence, if at first you can sound like a negative prophecy and a condemnation, is instead the sentence that makes us free. Today we are asked to do everything humanly, with our abilities, passion and fantasy you can do. For us, politics is not a profession, it is a service, and it is a privilege to serve Italy and the Italians, but we must be aware that we will not rule forever. Today all the colleagues of our parliamentary group, and not only, have had the opportunity to listen to his intentions, his aspirations, and also to see through his vision the recovery of politics and its credibility - and I say this - finally directly and not surrogate by the comments of this or that other journalist or by contemptuous ironies dictated by editorial positions obviously biased. President Renzi, you said well when, referring to trust, you called it political, and we have well sensed the meaning of words, beyond the institutional connotations. Trust, President, as our fathers showed in the post-war period, generates energy and this, if supported by capacity and concreteness, accepts any sacrifice to achieve the goal of a better quality of life. The choice of our party, the New Right Center, to move in this direction has broken any guarantee niche for personal political survival, as demonstrated by the choice made by our secretary Angelino Alfano and by all of us. The awareness of going out into the open sea, confronting us with the two fundamental aspects that regulate the game of this historical-political moment is primarily linked to the ability to read correctly the problems of the Italians and find for them the answer with fair distribution of sacrifices and with the priorities dictated by the dangerous drift that the crisis and unemployment are expressing. It is no less important not to lose sight of the difficulty in moving forward in finding ourselves in the condition of having to mediate different political and cultural roots between us. In your speech I found the method you have chosen to overcome these conditions absolutely reasonable and effective. Today we recognize that on sensitive issues (ius soli and couples in fact) you have had the delicacy (but it is probably farsightedness and political pragmatism) not to interpret the most radical positions of your political side, not to have sought variable majorities and to have been consistent with the reasonings made during the consultations. That's why our bet (and for you the challenge) will be to be able to find the best synthesis. Mr President, politics must strongly regain the trust of people, politicians are the means to regain this trust. If she wins we win, if she loses we lose too, but above all she loses the country. That is why together we want to contribute to this reversal of trend and pace. Mr President, I am not convinced, however, of the idea of linking the choice of the end of perfect bicameralism to the only component of economic savings; it would be too little and, in my opinion, quite misleading. The need to equip Parliament and the Government and even better the country with a faster capacity to produce laws is more felt, and as far as I am concerned there is much work to be done on the internal regulations, linking the House and the Senate of the Regions to a more effective competence of tasks and roles. Of course, the signal to the citizens remains to reduce the number of Members of Parliament. The work that we will do together on constitutional reforms and on the revision of Title V will become the perfect beehive for a new electoral law that restores the right of choice by citizens of their representatives. It is true: if it works - and we will be in the front row to reach this goal - the country will find a new condition and the citizens will find the desire to participate. It will end with an abstention from the vote that has reached limits that risk endangering democracy itself. The anti-politics will end as a reaction to bad politics and without construct; the era of many pipers - let's say - will end and a new season of participation will begin. Here is the word, Mr President: active participation in political life for all; participation in the new season that will necessarily have to see the citizens' Europe. We want more Europe and no less Europe. Mr President, no matter how talented you are, we hope that you do not want to think of yourself as a man in command. As New Right Center we will help you and, although you are the secretary of one of the major Italian parties, we will ensure that it does not fall into the temptation to liquidate through the manual Cencelli relations with the coalition that supports it. Mr President, you said today that if things do not go well, it will be your fault. Instead, we confirm that we feel as responsible as you for the possible failures. We, the New Right Center, have already fulfilled our challenge with a sense of responsibility and discontinuity. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will remind you every day that together we govern men, that we govern them together by laws, but that we will not rule together forever. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u136	Mr President, the time I had been given has been reduced and I will therefore be telegraphic. President Renzi, I have two things to say to you. The first is that you are a screen, otherwise Nicola Gratteri would have been sitting among the government benches instead of Orlando, a perfect stranger for justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, you also said that you would also distrust Minister Chancellors, but then this did not happen because you are a friend of the Ligresti and Salvatore Ligresti is a friend of many others. Secondly, I very much regret the fact that you and your people will not be able to enact a law on citizenship income, the only measure that is needed immediately. To me, as to her, they write families from the South of Italy (Gianmarco da Caltanissetta) as well as from the North, from Piedmont (Marco da Chivasso): they are people to despair. This country, these people, needs an immediate response. Our citizenship income project is the only thing that can help them now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I hope this is his first thought when he wakes up in the morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u137	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u138	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your previous experience you have had the opportunity to confront the territory: you have been President of the Province of Florence and mayor of an important Italian city; therefore, you are accustomed to dealing daily with problems and to dealing with emergencies. So I think he's got concreteness. In these few minutes I have available to give my speech I will not be lost in chatter and I will try to expose very few concrete points that I believe you and your Government have the obligation and the need to face starting tomorrow, after having obtained the confidence also in the House. 21.43 (Followed by Mr de Siano). You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, while a government was in office and a minister was drafting hypothetical reforms, had the merit, together with President Berlusconi, of having closed an agreement for the implementation of concrete reforms: electoral law, modification of Title V of the Constitution, abolition of the Senate. These are concrete facts, and I hope that in the work to be carried out it will work to maintain, together with its political part, the faith of that pact established with President Berlusconi. I would like to stress the need for your Government to intervene to block the reform of the metropolitan cities and provinces which the previous Government, together with Mr Delrio, had put in place. In fact, I believe that in the overall perspective of the reorganization of the institutional structure it is useful that all political forces make a reflection in the light of the sun on whether or not to abolish the Provinces or to reason concretely, once and for all, on the abolition of the Regions, replacing them with macroareas having planning tasks. I believe that this would be an important step forward compared to what we are discussing today. Think of a city like Naples, with millions of inhabitants: from next June 30 the mayor would also have skills that currently belong to the Province. Imagine the mayor of Naples, who fails to remedy the road holes, forced to take an interest also in the problems of the other 100 municipalities that are part of the Province and that on average have thousands and thousands of inhabitants: real cities. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, another important issue that I believe you and your Government have an obligation to address in a concrete way is the applicability of the laws of the State in some parts of our country. This also happens in Italy, that some laws in some parts are applied while in other parts those same laws do not apply. I refer to Law 326 of 2003, the so-called third building pardon, which has become very famous in Italy. The last few weeks in this House have been an important job, responsibly, in the confrontation of all political forces. By a very large majority, a bill has been passed regulating the methods of demolition of abusive constructions in Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Siano, come to the conclusion. DE SIANO (FI-PdL XVII). It is necessary for you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take action so that the other branch of Parliament, the House, can also deal without ideological barriers with a problem that is a real emergency for so many people who experience daily hardship. Unfortunately, there is very little time, and there would be other problems to be put on the table, for which there is a need for concrete answers. One of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council... Senator, I invited you to conclude. DE SIANO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I have to conclude, I cannot fail to say that it belongs to another political side, to wish you and your government, as an Italian and in the interests of my country, a sincere good luck. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u139	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u140	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, this has been a long, in-depth and interesting debate. It will be a coincidence, but just a year ago we were celebrating the elections in Italy, those political elections that showed us how urgent the reforms we are preparing to make are. Of course, there is electoral reform. We need, not only to give governability, but to give our fellow citizens back the opportunity to make their choices, on the colleges and on our territories, trying to identify and have the opportunity to choose who should represent them in Parliament. It's not enough. We need to modernise the public car and you, Mr President, have told us, with the right emphasis and the right emphasis. We must overcome bicameralism, a form perhaps necessary at the time and today overcome by events and the need, in the global world, to be direct and swift in the ability to make their own decisions and make their own choices. Just as it is necessary to revise Title V. What I particularly liked, Mr President, is that these three reforms can go hand in hand, one with the other, as a great reinterpretation of the overall system that governs and guides our country. I believe that it is an important priority to bring politics closer to our citizens. Of course, then there are the work, the economy, the emergency and the economic crisis. The emphasis that I most appreciated, also in my institutional capacity, was that of the necessary investments in the world of education, training, university, research and innovation. A big project to launch on school building. It has been a great shame for our country in the last twenty years to think that our boys and teachers could continue to work or spend their learning days in structures that were not adequate and, therefore, did not comply with the law and were not compliant. A shame that a modern, democratic and Western country, which wants to have leadership, can no longer be allowed. Well then the emphasis is well the importance of a large investment plan. The choice of responsibility of Minister Giannini reassures us in that direction. Then there is culture as a vehicle of development for our country. Even for our companies, Mr President, there is no better opportunity for promotion than to tell the world what we have done over the centuries, what we have been and where we come from, because every single worker of ours and every single entrepreneur of ours necessarily represents all our history and all our culture. Culture must be lived as a great investment for the country and not as an expense that makes us suffer because it is a cash out: the culture of citizenship, good living and quality of life, as mechanisms of attraction in a Ministry where today is finally included tourist activity. Therefore, culture as protection, culture as enhancement, culture as opportunities for economic growth, culture as opportunities for the growth of the quality of life and the achievement of full citizenship by all Italians. But we have not only the great, immense cultural heritage. We also have our landscape and the beauties of the environment, a landscape that must be preserved at such a difficult time as this, since we have been coming for months and months of complicated situations that have always been managed in the emergency. Here, too, we must assume a great investment plan that finally allows the safety of our magnificent territory. You have to do these things without taboos and ideological patterns. For example, on the world of culture, I was pleased with the indications of Minister Franceschini, who I read about "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) which is also open to the private sector. In fact, the effort in this direction, Mr President, must necessarily be collective and concern everyone: the State, the Ministry, the Government, Parliament, the local institutions, but also private enterprises and individual citizens. This is the direction in which we must work, with determination and force. Today we have received a message of challenge to the future, to Europe, to the world: a message, precisely, for the future of our country. We want to seize this opportunity with determination and great confidence. Mr President, we want to seize this opportunity with a sense of the state, with great passion and determination: that passion and determination we have found in our primary and gazebos, which have been offended in this House today. We can't let that happen. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to defend this great moment of democracy that we have lived and that has brought us here. We cannot allow a few words to pass, some trivial insults, perhaps uttered in freedom, which we have heard today on Italian politics, on the Democratic Party, on this Government and this majority: go ahead, Mr President, because the Democratic Party, with its history, with its ruling class, with its strong determination is and will be with you, at your side. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u141	The debate is closed. I warn you that motion 1-00219 of trust has been submitted to the Government, signed by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. I communicate that the direct television broadcast with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a very instructive afternoon for me. Many interventions, I would say the vast majority, have been punctual, by the political forces that will support the Government and also, in part, by the political forces of the oppositions: precise and punctual interventions, from which we have drawn and will draw - I hope - significant elements and which have spread over all areas of competence of the activity of the Executive. I cannot make a punctual reply, not only out of respect for your time, but also because I believe that the best response will be to turn these suggestions into concrete initiatives, sometimes even partially amending what we have said, on which we will still reflect (I think about what Pizzetti and others have told us, on individual interventions and punctual references). That is what we are going to look at, discuss and try to give a concrete response over the next few weeks. I would like to thank Senator Romani of the 5 Star Movement, among the many speeches that I have judged to be very special. Senator Romani and I do not share many things, I would say that we share few, especially with regard to our city. But the tone that he used in this House, which is profoundly critical, but very respectful of itself, of intentions and also of ideals (different, perhaps, not acceptable and on which we will probably never find an agreement), has made me particularly happy and in some way has also made me feel worthy of belonging to a territorial tradition to which he referred. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Fucksia.]] Not as much as I can say about all the speeches, but I would like to draw on the criticisms I have received in this House and outside of it, in relation to the tone of the speech I have made. I too have a lot to learn, so I will reflect for a next speech whether or not to confirm the same tone: I must tell you, however, that it struck me (I say to Senator D'Anna, of the LAG Group, and to the Divine Senator of the North League) the fact that it was contested (in addition to the contents, but I put it in the background for a moment) that I had used a register different from the necessary one. Senator D'Anna and Senator Divina said: but how dare you come to this House and speak in a different tone from what you use outside? I would ask myself a question and I would try to give an answer, dear Senator D'Anna and dear Senator Divina: if a tone, content and a different attitude are to be used in this House, is it certain that the problem is of the government that uses them or not rather of the current setback - and that you also represent - between public opinion, the thinking of normal people and the civil community and what you think is the reality? Are you sure that the "Truman Show" is sometimes not in your mind rather than in the opinion of the citizens? When we speak before the Senate, we are not talking to people who are far from public opinion, but to the representatives of the citizens, to whom we must respect - and I think I did not miss them - but also a language of frankness and transparency! [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups.]] And then, compared to the fact that you're asking for a double register, for what you say in here and what you say out of here, you know that this government will never have the double register that paradoxically LAG and North League require, that is, we won't play the card of lack of transparency. We will be exactly the same: there will never be a lack of formal and institutional respect, but do not ask us to be different for what we have to say here and outside. It will also be that, unlike others, we are used to being among people: you will allow me to say that we consider the reference that Senator Marcucci made at the end of his speech, with respect to the ability to be among people, to take consent and not to be afraid to face the squares, as a constituent element, because being a Democratic Party does not mean being part of an acronym. This is the case for the New Right Centre, for the other political forces that make up the coalition in various ways and - let me tell you - to respond to one of the criticisms - especially for the autonomous groups, for the different realities that are part of our Executive. When we met in particular the representatives of the autonomous parties of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol and also of the Valle d'Aosta, in a different way, we were asked explicitly the respect and the valorization of an autonomous experience that comes from this contact with people. Of course, that in the Province of Bolzano has won the Südtiroler Volkspartei clearly: we know and we are proud to be allies, as we are proud to be allies with the PATT in the Province of Trento. In both cases - I tell the Senators of the League - these alliances that have won represent a strong territorial reference that, perhaps, in other parts of the country in the past you had also you and that lately you have lost. Again, let's ask ourselves a few questions and give some answers. But I don't want to fuel the controversy. I want to say that if autonomy means taking on responsibility, especially as has been done in some of these regions, their own territory and their own expectations, well, then the autonomy is, as far as we are concerned, a model and a solution to the distance, political disengagement, the separation between citizens and public opinion. From this point of view I would like to thank the autonomous forces that will not only lack support from the point of view of consensus, but above all a contribution to the recovery of the country and - let me say - to the valorization of a different model of relationship between public and elected opinion. Part of the speeches criticized the merits. Of course, I thank all those who have expressed words of appreciation, which I shall avoid, as is obvious and natural, mentioning. More than the merit of the intervention, we have received (and I thank you very much) criticism of the shortcomings in the programmatic intervention. You didn't say anything about Mezzogiorno, so we can't give you confidence! Yes, because perhaps it would have been enough to use the usual phrases made by us for decades in certain speeches about the Mezzogiorno, phrases that constitute a verbal commitment, and a concrete and factual disengagement, in order to gain confidence. Are there really enough words at large to gain confidence in the great issues of the Mezzogiorno? Or is it not time to set a different approach to European programming, considering that the Structural Funds are the most extraordinary opportunity we have, not in the coming years, but in the coming months? Have a local administrator tell you (now ex, or on the verge of decadence as a local administrator). But how do you, in a moment of crisis of liquidity of the country system, not to understand that those 59 billion must be taken immediately, must be spent immediately? We have come to conclude the 2007-2013 programming in the last few weeks of 2013: and how much there would have been the need for an investment not in rain, not for individual projects, not scattered, but for significant, structural projects that allow recovery, not only in the Mezzogiorno, but especially in the Mezzogiorno, of a minimum of hope for the administrators of the public thing! How can we continue to live with words, to be content with words when the Mezzogiorno problem is a structural one that needs a radical change coming out of the culture of lamentation to which I have referred. If it was not clear that the passage on bureaucracy, the tax system, the reorganization of the machinery of justice, on the issue of the exit from the culture of lamentation also and in advance I apologise to the Mezzogiorno. But if we just have to give an abstract and theoretical speech, well, then obviously we've got the wrong government. We're not gonna give speeches on the loose. We want to challenge each other on the issue of combating illegality and organised crime not through abstract sentences and commitments. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta]] Today the court of assize of Naples has confirmed the life sentence for the indictant of the murder of Teresa Buonocore, one of the brave mothers of Portici, that it has put before the protection of the daughter to itself and that it has been tragically murdered in 2010. That brave mother is a part of the struggle, not only to crime - or, in this case, violence against women - but to an idea of a country that does not defend its best children. On these issues we want to be challenged: on a concrete commitment, not abstract, and that is why, in continuity with the Government that preceded us, the Authority will immediately start anti-corruption [[Applause from Senator Mattesini]] , without leaving any inch of space to those who speak today but do not fulfill the commitments. The same is true of the criticism received by some forces in the North, via Twitter, for the lack of reference to the Expo. Let us also make the reference to the Expo, for Christ's sake: let alone say that the Expo is all we want to represent! Our country realizes a turnover of 31 billion euros for the export of food and wine and has Italian sounding products, that is that they sound Italian, always about food and wine, for 60 billion euros. So there is an export market in this double sector that is basically lost. This is the case of "Parmesan" instead of Parmesan; it is the model of the oil that has the color white, green and red in the bottle, but then it is not Italian because it is produced in other areas of the planet. How much can we discuss this issue? How much can we discuss how environment, agri-food and attention to green technology innovation are part of the challenge of the future that we want? Do we want to make a statement about this, or perhaps we need to speed up not only the physical construction site, which is already underway, but also the mental construction site to allow Expo to be a great tow for the whole country? From this point of view, what will happen in 2015 in Milan (and not only in Milan, given the collaboration pacts that the various municipal and regional administrations that have succeeded themselves have signed, also with other realities of the territory) is definitely a reference piece of the future that we imagine. I could go on with so many small and great examples of criticism received, but I want to be very brief and get to the point quickly. First, however, I would like to make a reference to the President of the Republic. I was asked why I didn't. Well, as a citizen, that on April 22, 2013 (it could be a different day, but I refer anyway to the day of the re-election of President Napolitano), in his office in the room of Clement VII, he was watching the direct of the Parliament gathered in common session, I felt, for my political responsibilities (at the time of the mayor only), a feeling of genuine shame because the political class, unable to identify in a shared way a succession to the President of the Republic, who had expressly requested not to be again in charge of the country's leadership for a second term, had been forced, in its highest representations, to ask a real personal and political sacrifice to the President of the Republic currently in office. In that speech, which you remember why you were sitting there (not here, but in the Chamber of Deputies) and which I remember because I was standing there, in front of the television, probably as impressed as all of you, the words of the President of the Republic sounded very loudly. I am referring to the words that asked the parties to finally take charge of that reform process, which, for various reasons, did not start or rather, left and stopped. Do you think it is right and respectful of the Senate Chamber to quote the President of the Republic with formal and ceremonious words and not have the courage to say that the only true way to respect the extraordinary institutional figure of Giorgio Napolitano is to carry out that process of reform to which President Napolitano has linked his service and which is a priority for the entire country system? [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups]] Do you think it's possible to keep teasing the Italians, saying that we will, we will, we will, while then we will send back, we will send back, we will send back? The sense of political acceleration of these weeks, which may or may not be appreciated, but which is an acceleration that arises from the need to give concrete answers, is dictated by an urgency that we have tried to explain by putting our heart on the field. The urgency is to bring together a different policy on work, a different policy on justice, a different policy on taxation, a different policy on public administration, starting from the centrality of the school and setting the European semester not as the place where we go to make ourselves tell what we have to do, but for once as the place where we tell our idea of Europe, the United States of Europe, of European civil service, of commitment to an Erasmus that is not only the Erasmus of the university, but a project of sharing on youth work, on high school. This is the sense of urgency. I certainly could have and perhaps should have set up a much more ceremonial speech, and probably next time we write it, so we don't waste too much time on you, but there is a passage: this operation is not a lifting operation or a power operation. If it were a power operation, we wouldn't bet all of us right away like this. We did not give ourselves a timing from Greek calende: we said that the goal is the horizon of 2018, and we confirm it! But we have said that in the coming weeks and months we will immediately check whether the commitments we have made are a bluff or not, and the only thing that can happen, the most dramatic that can happen, is to fail. I have already taken away the satisfaction of hearing from the Northern League Group even the comparison with Konrad Adenauer. Now, Senator Divina, I have to tell you that if you wanted to offend me, you had other authoritative institutional references, fish and more. The central point, however, is that what we have put on the field in this passage is the desire to say to those who are twenty years old today and no longer believe us that Italy is not the country of thank you, we will let you know, that Italy is not the country of the "go abroad" until you are still in time, that Italy is not the country of the "thank you," it works only who knows someone and not who knows something". The Italy that we imagine and that we want to build and in some respects reconstruct is Italy that can be leader in the world, I am not afraid to say it, provided that there is a political class aware of not being at the cinema, of not being paid to be doing commercial interventions and then give up the comparison, because we confront the reforms of course that we do it with the opposition, but we have asked you too, friends of the 5 Star Movement! [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Gentile.]] The comparison on the rules of the game we do it with everyone and, above all, the timing we give ourselves is an immediate and pressing timing, because we know that, if it fails this time, then they will remain I do not know if we can define only the rubble, but will remain the regret of the greatest missed opportunity. On 24 February it is a special day for so many, it has rightly been referred to last year's elections, elections that have hurt us, we are not afraid to say so; but precisely for this reason we want the electoral law to be debated in the House next week, and we say so because we know that with that electoral law that we will vote next week in the House a very important fact will happen: what happened last year will no longer happen. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] If in fact the electoral law we are discussing had been in force last year there would have been a ballot between Pierluigi Bersani and Silvio Berlusconi, and the winner would have had the opportunity to govern for five years. [[Notes of dissent from the M5S Group.]] This issue is so important that we will defend bipolarism and the possibility of having a winner in the election, not because we think we will win (and then of course we will try to do so). Senator Mancuso started by pointing out that the left will eventually rule: we, as it were, are capable of everything... GENTILE (NCD). We say so too! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. You too, but maybe if we start, it's okay. Don't worry. But the central point is that ensuring that there is a dry winner means guaranteeing to the Italians that there is one to whom you can blame if things are not done. We're putting our face on this game simply because we think it's the only way to look our fellow citizens in the eye. At most, what can happen is that an opportunity is lost, of course, but we cannot miss the opportunity for the country. On 24 February 1990, the President of the Republic, Sandro Pertini, died. Sandro Pertini was for some of us the first President of the Republic. For me not formally: it was Leo, since I am of 1975. But the first President of the Republic I remember is definitely Sandro Pertini. I remember him in his attitudes, that we all sculpted in the head, starting from the moments of greatest difficulty of that terrible seven-year-old, to the most amusing moments, as when the World Cup came back from Madrid on the state plane. Sandro Pertini said in his first message to the nation, that of the last year: Young people do not need sermons, young people need examples of honesty, coherence and altruism on the part of older people. Remove the generational reference, because I don't want to seem repetitive. But look, there's no need for big talk out of here. The people who look at you - and who, at this point, look at us, because I am also part of these Palaces, exactly as you - do not need sermons, do not need speeches: they need you finally to move from words to deeds, with consistency, honesty and altruism. It's my invitation to the government. It's my invitation to the Senate. Good work to all of us! [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u143	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that Senator Nencini has also signed motion 219 of trust in the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u146	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your frankness. We have understood, if still needed, which "stil novo" will characterize his courageous, almost daring attempt, given the conditions given, so little formal that it can and will only have to go well. There is a Italy that asks to be accompanied towards the appointments that history reserves without discounts, that no longer recognizes blasons and annuities, at a time full of tensions, fears, violence that once again cross the old Europe, repeatedly put in front of its great, but at the same time tragic, destiny. How can we fail to see that today, in the violence of Kiev, or yesterday, in the tragedies that followed the Arab spring, or in the ethnic and interreligious clashes that persecute Christians and burn Africa, a land of origin of many men and women who live among us and who deserve those rights that you have recalled, risks forever sinking the free and democratic dream of that peacemaker by definition, because it is produced by the greatest war that has fought humanity, which is Europe, more than ever community of destiny and not only of memory? In this world that is seeking new balances, Europe, and we in Europe, have a duty to trigger that change without whether or not you have assumed this extraordinary responsibility. Civic Choice wants to support this effort, as evidenced by the entry of our political secretary into the Government; we want to support him as senators, convinced that this Senate must be overcome, that the institutions must be reformed, that it is necessary to deeply reorganize the local authorities and the Regions, to deforeste privileges and prebends of those many castes that, like the bad politics, have created the great gap that exists between Italy and the other European countries. In other words, we want to assume with you the responsibility for the success or failure of this attempt, because this is perhaps the last opportunity that the country has to get back in the race. But we and you would be irresponsible if we were not aware of the pitfalls we will find along our path. That is why the titles or good intentions are not enough, nor is it sufficient to draw up a list of things to do. On issues such as the work, the reform of the public administration, the economy and the role in it of the State, as Civic Choice we have tried to characterize our parliamentary commitment in a liberal and reformist sense; a non-ideological commitment, very pragmatic, that has found resistance in the most conservative sectors of the same government forces and that, if it were to happen again, can only provoke our deep dissent. Reforms, reforms and more reforms! Only this can catch us up with Europe and engage the recovery, and only this can justify such a strong break in liturgies, established practices, tearing decisions. It is our right to have doubts about some choices made in the formation of the Government, in the structure of the Ministries, on the first statements of some of its members, but all this is secondary to the ability that will have to be demonstrated to resist the lobbies, challenge consolidated social blocks, oppose established interests, monopolies and oligopolies, public and private. Thank you, moreover, for reaffirming that Europe is, if anything, our great opportunity and not the cause of our evils. I would add that, if we had only managed, in the past ten years, to take advantage of the benefits of the euro on public debt and the increase in the tax burden, today we would have no problem easily achieving the objectives of reducing the tax burden for companies and workers that you announced here. Thank you, therefore, for the words of clarity on this point, but let us remind you that it will be in the concrete choices that we will measure the true innovative scope of your just and acceptable statements. More European policies, therefore, and for this reason we ask you not to regard European policy as a mere appendix to foreign policy, but, on the contrary, as the heart of government policy. Mr. President Renzi, you made your debut with a note of lightness, remembering that he asks for confidence in the Senate, these days after the Sanremo festival, even if he is not old to be a senator. With a similar lightness I recall that in those years it was fashionable, at "Carosello" the "consiglio per le acquisti" of a well-known food company that said that "confidence" is a serious thing that is given to serious things. It is true that today you can say with that mouth what you want, to be always in the light; but we want to give you confidence not because we have no alternative or because we want to \'t live. We were candidates last year convinced that the credibility that the Monti Government had recovered in Europe and in the world for Italy should not be lost; not for itself or for our nascent political movement. We have, with the result obtained, avoided that the populism of the right could, in Italy as in Europe, defeat the democratic and Europeanist forces; we supported the efforts of President Letta to give a Government to an Italy which is embroiled by our inconclusions. Overcoming doesn't mean forgetting. It is for this reason that it is necessary to remember that without the willingness of the then Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party to put its face, without that generous response to the warning of the Head of State, the country would probably have lived its institutional dissolution and the triumph of anti-politics in new elections. How much they have weighed on the path of the Letta government especially the exhausting judicial affair of the then Senator Berlusconi or the internal events of our parties will be the story to say. But we would not be here if ten months ago an authoritative and intelligent person like President Letta, to whom we did not harm criticism for the progressive loosening of the original reforming vocation of his Government, had not responded generously to that appeal. This does not allow us, in our little one, to make discounts on anyone, nor did you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, well aware of all this, ask us to do so. Just as in a transparent way we offer our intransigent reformist will and our willingness to feel responsible for the results of the Government, we ask that there be a transparent solidarity of the only political majority that must hold the fate of this Government. Time has not allowed us to write that coalition pact that would have made us all stronger, but this cannot and must not mean that the majority is other than one and that it must set itself the ambitious objective of turning this sick Italy like a sock that must heal, without resorting to cunning, like the variable majority, which would be the expression of an old policy, in sharp contradiction with the revolution and the new style that you announced and proposed to this House. I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you will be able, for you, for us and for the whole of Italy, to vote in favour of this decision. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups and Senator Conte.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u149	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, Mr Renzi, we are soon called, with a simple yes or a no or with what we call in the Senate (you are not very used to parliamentary language) a behavior that will consequently answer the question of trust. She, already at the beginning of her speech, made a little disquisition about the meaning of trust. You see, trust here is not a personal trust: it is to approve the address of the Government, of its Government, President Renzi; I repeat, of its Government. The government as you represented it, with the programme that must be deduced from the communications made in this Chamber of the Senate, in front of Parliament because, as you said, you made them before Parliament, not in the streets, but in front of the whole country. And we, with the proper consideration for the composition of your Government, for your Ministers, for the proper consideration that we must have for you, the illustrious President of the Council, before that, will have to give an answer. However, the question put here today does not require a simple answer, a simple yes or a simple no because, once again I repeat, his person, his program (I am to compliment you), the conditions of the country and the international reality do not make the answer easily attributable to political membership, but they must certainly be evaluated according to the quality of the government, they cannot be weighed by the simple color of the mandate, but they refer to much stronger motivations and characterizations. We wondered: is it possible to consider membership as a principle and, therefore, to believe that on principles it is not possible to develop any mediation? Or is it possible to consider that membership, the legal shop of democratic representation, must obey mainly the preservation of the democratic system, of its structure and, therefore, prefer not the opposition between one side and the other, not the opposition between us and its Government, but the sharing of the same objective? Some, as we have already heard in the debate on the question of trust, have given and will give this question a favourable answer - others, I, many of us - are not for this solution and we want to present to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to our constituents, to the country that is represented here, and not to the streets, our why. It is our conviction, with full respect for the other convictions, that the answer, as already a few decades ago was argued by Kelsen (Kelsen, President Renzi), evolves from the difficult and always subjective elaboration in politics of the concept of fidelity. I repeated Kelsen's name twice because, as you certainly have studied, he began to be famous for having written the theory of the State of Dante Alighieri and of Florence, the city that she represented so well in Italy and in the world. Kelsen theorized that it is not only the beliefs of a fidelity that is legal observance that cannot be taken on the basis of the discussions, but we must balance them with the achievement of an objective, with the confidence, that is, that is, that has been granted to us in our turn. The chain, therefore, is not that of personal trust to which you referred at the beginning of your speech to communicate to this Assembly the program of your Government. The supply chain is that in order to give us confidence, to receive her trust, we must consider belonging, evaluate fidelity, measure ourselves with the trust received. "Trust" is the key word in this House; you have talked about it for a long time. But in order to give it to him we need to evaluate that trust that has been placed in us, and we do not interpret it in the sense that we have to put ourselves at the service of an idea, an ideal that is not the ideal or the idea of our voters. Our voters are for a free and liberal state, for a state dedicated to the market and not to market, for an ideal that wants a strong state in a free Europe, without being statist, corporate or cooperative. A state that assists, but is not welfare, and where to find a judge, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must not go to Berlin this time, but to Brussels. It is not, therefore, a question of conviction about what, even if important, is relative to personal abilities; it is not our assessment of a quid that she evidently possesses, but it is an evaluation of the tour company that harnesses her program, that makes her pride stink, that tarps her momentum. How can we fail to note that not even a word in her communications has she spent on the Mezzogiorno? He did so in his reply, but the reply is a clarification: you did not speak of it because it is a subject that you do not know, because you rem tenes verba seqentur and you could not follow the words because it is a concept that you do not possess; or perhaps the "move" company, mindful of the Stalinist teachings, reminded you and imposed that the smartest way to solve a problem is to ignore it. Perhaps you would have been a great President of a government of pacification and repentance. But your (you said it, President) is a political government and (I declare it) is a left-wing political government. We're not. We respect those who are; we respect those who feel it is necessary to cooperate with you. We do not deny you our personal trust: we deny you our political trust. [[Applause from the GAL Group and Senator Volpi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u152	ROMANO (PI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you introduced your speech, you pointed out that you would use the language of frankness and - I quote - 'at the limit of brutality'. So allow me to follow the score that you set up, frankly yes, but without brutality. It has characterized your communication of trust, boldness, courage: you have used these terms repeatedly. Principles that can and must animate a government project, but do not exhaust it. Courage, boldness, confidence do not alone ensure a turning-point legislature, as you have defined the path that begins today. Government responsibility is shared, a common path of all those who, supporting the Government, are concretely called to collaborate. It is true, as you mentioned, that if he fails, he will take full responsibility for it. This statement is certainly commendable, and yet it is worthy of a little further study. We absolutely do not believe in a policy based on personalization, on man who must remain alone in command. Do not feel alone in command: this is not the time, neither can nor must it ever be the time of loneliness. I tell you frankly: do not let yourself be entrenched by this temptation. It would contradict the unique foundation of politics, which is encounter, dialogue, reception and - I would say even more - sharing. Of course, the merit that could derive from the good result of the Government is, however, equal to the very serious consequence that could result if not, at the social level, in the event of failure. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italy needs a truly stable government, certainly in the alliance, authoritative at international level, reformist and, therefore, innovatory, voted for economic and social development, pro-European. This is imposed by social fragility, poor families, young people looking for work, scholars and researchers who, trained in Italy and open to the world, are forced not to invest in their own land. Mr President, all those who aspire to social cohesion, to citizenship without always feeling foreign in their homeland. It is imposed by all those who seem to have no voice or representation in the institutions, by the weak powers, by those with dignity who live social exclusion. Frankly, you have presented us with a very rich programme of government with regard to horizons, which is certainly courageous. Perhaps - you will allow me - some passages would have required further study, but certainly everything could not be said. Other passages, however, have been very clear, for the truth even in the not said, in some respects. Some areas require further study, and we are delighted to work together on citizenship and cohesion, social inclusion, reforms of the independent authorities, the family, a health care that is fair and just throughout the national territory. Mr President, in conclusion, as it has been said, in terms of quantity and quality, we give you, your Government and those who will cooperate without conditions, because Italy deserves confidence. We will be loyal allies and, therefore, critics, if you will allow us, when we consider it appropriate a supplement of courage, trust and - let me finally say - hope, as the good mayor La Pira taught and continues to teach us. We try to offer Italy that testimony of institutional vitality by giving answers to our problems. Thus, together, all of us, and without division, will find confidence, above all in ourselves, in a renewed openness of international trust towards Italy. Congratulations, President, congratulations to your Government and congratulations to Italy. [[Applause from the PI ePD Group and the Senators Rossi Luciano and Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u155	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened very carefully to your speech. We share in particular the objectives you have set in the field of the economy. The response to social and economic emergencies can only be achieved by radical reforms in support of business and labour, by a significant reduction in the tax wedge and social charges and, of course, also by reducing the tax burden. In our view, the priority should be, not least because of the limited resources available, administrative and fiscal simplification, which has been mentioned for too long without any concrete action being taken. In fact, we have the impression that every new law has actually complicated the life of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not only the excessive tax burden that is choking our businesses, but also the bureaucratic burden that is constantly increasing. It is not always the fault of the European Union. Most of these problems, in fact, are flour from our sack, are created in our home, by ministerial apparatuses that, in fact, package the implementing texts of Community directives always inventing new bureaucratic monsters, such as SISTRI or the regulations on safety at work, all provisions that do not exist in other European States and that contribute to the loss of competitiveness in this country. Why do we not follow the example of other highly competitive Community countries instead of always inventing solutions studied by those who do not know what it means to do business? Elsewhere no one would dream of tarting the business world like this. Equally important, in terms of the competitiveness of the Italian system, is the implementation of important infrastructure projects and in this context we have submitted to you the absolute priority of the realization of the railway corridor Innsbruck-Verona and its access sections, a priority recognized by the European Union that already co-finances the project and that could grant an additional contribution of two billion euros. To assume what remains of the legislature as a constituent and reformist sphere is credible if, at the same time, we have the will to support in Parliament the reform of the electoral law and constitutional reforms related to overcoming the perfect bicameralism. However, it would be a sign of a great political weakness to postpone the entry into force of the electoral law pending the amendment of the Constitution. A democratic country must have an electoral law that allows citizens to express at any time a parliamentary majority that can govern. This applies regardless of institutional reforms. The agreement reached in the Chamber for the new electoral law returns representativeness to the Parliament. It will not be a perfect law, but at least safeguard the need for governability. The particular system adopted for the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol Region will not only allow full protection of linguistic minorities, but also - and this is important - a balanced presence of all the linguistic groups present in our territory. The choice of bicameralism also requires a decision on the nature of the Senate. In this respect, however, Mr President-in-Office, let me disagree on one point of your approach, where it provides for a composition of the Senate with a very marginal representation of the Regions, instead giving predominant weight to the municipalities. The model that we share is that of the German Bundesrat, which is not elective, because a Senate so powerless as in a certain way proposed by you, with only advisory functions, would be a palliative and would make no sense. Or we choose a Senate with real powers in certain subjects, expression of autonomy, otherwise it is better to abolish it altogether. The country certainly does not need other useless institutions or a second CNEL. With some amazement we have also learned, from his speech, that the Senate should deal, at first reading, only with the reform of bicameralism, while the reform of Title V should be dealt with by the House. So the same script already seen with the electoral law is reappearing. On the other hand, we believe that this proposal is not very respectful of the role of the Senate and perhaps not very sensible on the substance. The reform of bicameralism and that of Title V are in fact related to each other and we must arrive at an organic text. And this objective is difficult to achieve with this separation of tasks between the two branches of Parliament. The revision of the form of State will not be able to propose a new form of centralism because, on the contrary, the reform of Title V will have to see the federal system strengthened. In this context, it is essential for us to safeguard the competences and powers of the Regions, including the special ones, and of the Autonomous Provinces, already exercised before 2001 (even before the entry into force of the reform of Title V) and deriving, in our case, from precise international agreements. In this sense, we appreciated your assurances, expressed in response, to the Special Regions. There is no need for new state supremacy clauses in relation to the Regions, since (and we must never forget this) constitutional jurisprudence has already profoundly safeguarded, often even in excessive form, unitary interests with corrective interpretations of the reform of Title V, certainly not in favour of regional autonomy. After these very restrictive judgments of the Court, which basically frustrated the scope of the 2001 federalist reform, there is therefore no need for other boundaries and constraints. Let me also remind you that the frightening conflict (and we admit this) before the Constitutional Court is not so much a consequence of the new set of competences resulting from the 2001 reform, but above all the abolition of the government visa on regional laws. Because before the entry into force of the reform it was contracting between the government and the autonomy and then this corrective has failed. But I hope that there will not be a counter-reform on this point, because this was the real step forward in the 2001 reform. Another factor for the growing litigation is that all too often Government and Parliament have failed to complete the prerogatives of the Regions, forcing these to continuous appeals, while vice versa the central bureaucracy has always pushed for the appeal of almost all regional laws. A change of course took place only with the last Government, thanks to the commendable work of the hour undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Graziano Delrio. In any case, for us to reform Title V does not mean that the issue of competing competences must be dealt with unilaterally: if it is assumed that some competing competences, for example in the field of strategic infrastructure, must return exclusively to the State, at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the exclusive competences of the Regions, for example in the matter of territorial governance, the environment and the protection of the landscape. We therefore say yes to a clearer separation of areas of competence, but not one-way. Among the points we consider strategic for the Valle d'Aosta and the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol are undoubtedly the implementation of the agreements already made with the previous Government, transposed into the 2014 law of stability, with the enactment of the implementing rules relating to the Stelvio National Park and the delegations in the matter of tax agencies and the personnel of criminal and juvenile civil justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Zeller. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. I also take the opportunity to bring to your attention the embarrassing situation that has been created in Valle d'Aosta, with the decision of Trenitalia to halve the services, despite the availability of the Region to assume these expenses to you. It would not only be a zero-cost operation, but would even lead to savings for the state's coffers. In conclusion, I would like to say to the President-in-Office that there are many expectations for him and it will not be easy to achieve all the objectives you have set yourself. In the past we have too often heard promises of miracles that have not come true on time. But we are confident that, for obvious reasons, it has not been possible to draw up a detailed programme for the coming years: the so-called German pact. Today you are actually asking us for some kind of blank bill of exchange. We know your good intentions and we certainly do not want to deny you our support. We wish you, therefore, good luck and good work. Announcement, therefore, that the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote for the trust of its Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] I would ask the Presidency to be able to attach the full text of my explanation of vote to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u156	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u159	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your Government, which today asks the Senate for trust, was born outside Parliament: for the third time in a row, not chosen by the voters. We have been firmly opposed by the Letta Government, but we would have much preferred that this singular change of guard, whose true motives (including perhaps the upcoming 500 appointments) are not yet clear, had occurred transparently, openly, in the appropriate seats, that is, in Parliament's classrooms and not in a private conversation, then ratified in the direction of the Democratic Party. The government that today demands trust is based on the same majority that supported the Letta Government and, moreover, you spoke today of a real political government. In the name of innovation, which is his magic word, we have witnessed for days the oldest negotiation that can be imagined: an arm-arm on names and armchairs, completely free from the shadow of a content. We have been told for days and days that everything will be different, because there is another President of the Council, more dynamic (to use his own words) and more ambitious to lead this Government. We are the first to hope that this is really the case, for the good of the country, but we have serious doubts that it can actually be different. We believe that the paralysis of the Letta Government was due first of all to the impossibility of putting courageous and effective policies in the field with a spurious and divided majority. But look, President Renzi, it is your own majority that you have today qualified as a policy: no longer of necessity, but as a political majority. The Italians, the workers and the unemployed, of which, dear President, we care and much, the Cassaintegrati, the impoverished, the millions of precarious, the frightened from the future, would instead need a project, this yes, ambitious, of real change: made of strong choices and in sharp discontinuity with the wrong policies that have reduced the country so. In these days, President Renzi, you have built your government weighing the percentages, the records of young people and women, and even those of the currents of the Democratic Party, of the groups and groups of your majority, confirming some outgoing Ministers. We certainly appreciate the presence of 50% of women in your government, but in the end the overall result of this alchemy is quite disappointing and of little substance. And I tell you frankly that, with the choice of Minister Guidi for economic development, he has even re-proposed in all his urgency the node for twenty years never resolved the conflict of interest. But the percentages that affect young people, women, men in this country, are others. They say that the unemployed represent more than 12% of the population, but you are well aware - because you mentioned it - that the real figure is much more serious, taking into account the many people who no longer seek work. The data tell us that the unemployment rate among young people has exceeded 41 percent and, both in total and in youth, women are the most penalized, and the young people of the South more than all. The data that interest Italians are those that see the closure of 50,000 companies only in 2013, at the rate of 93 per day. These are the numbers of the exodus, Mr President, on which once again a deafening silence has come down, by a state that has betrayed a pact with those citizens. It is the data that sets the tremendous snapshot of a quarter of the population living in poverty or risk ending up in that abyss. You have also mentioned some of these figures, but let us tell you quite frankly that you do not understand how you intend to deal with this dramatic emergency: what concrete measures and measures do you intend to put in place? The boldness with which he spoke certainly encourages, but we fear that it will be insufficient. We, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, openly challenge you on the most urgent issues, first of all the work, not on the umpteenth question of the rules - which has never produced a job, but only the removal of rights - but on how to create jobs and prevent the loss of others, which is the emergency in the emergency. We challenge it, therefore, on an extraordinary plan for work, investing in rehabilitation, in the security of the territory, against the breakdown of our Italy, which is crumbling day after day, in urban regeneration, in cultural goods, in the beauty of our landscape, in school building, to which it has mentioned, and in green technologies. We - and not just ourselves - have been proposing for years the adoption of a guaranteed minimum income, a measure that is practically everywhere in Europe, which gives the unemployed and young people, in particular, a minimum of protection. On fiscal policy, Mr President, we too say 'just chatter'. Unfortunately, it is not enough to send home the tax return, which certainly helps, but it is necessary to reduce the levy on workers, pensioners and small businesses, to shift the weight on the financial incomes and on the most possessed, because it is still a number of people equal to 10% that, as you know from the data of Bankitalia, possesses practically half of the wealth of our country. We must also try to attack the gigantic inequalities that have occurred in recent years from the verse of fiscal policies. We too, therefore, say enough to the inconclusive declamations, and it is not enough to mention school and culture: it is necessary to move from words to deeds, because we must invest, and still invest, and make this choice for the future of the country. On the question of reducing expenditure, citizens not only want the right and sacrosanct reduction in the costs of politics, but also the reduction of unnecessary and harmful expenses such as those relating to F35, military expenditure and works that cost and devastate the territory. In short, we need another idea of development for our Italy, based on quality, innovation, ecology and the vocations of our country. In the field of civil rights, starting from the ius soli, the culture of Italians is much more advanced than that of the political class. It is necessary to enact appropriate laws, which do not sacrifice the substance in the name of that mediation to which you have referred. On the European Semester, Mr Renzi, we believe that, in view of the European parameters which stifle every possibility of recovery, general criticism or the call to the United States of Europe or to our dream of Europe is no longer sufficient, but immediate action is needed today, agreed with the other European countries that are in a similar situation, to demand that these parameters be changed. We are at a crossroads now: either we get out of the policies of rigour and the suffocating enclosure of the balance of the budget, or Italy - or rather, those who have paid all the costs of the crisis up to now - will not succeed. We have read that he has received a call from President Obama: perhaps the comparison with what the United States has done could help us, because they have done exactly the opposite of what Europe has done, since in order to get out of the crisis they have begun to invest and to make sure that jobs are created. At first, therefore, they may have had difficulties in balancing the budget, but today there is a recovery. Of all this we have heard nothing except generic titles, for now, as we had seen nothing from the previous government. For the truth a substantial difference between this Government and the last phase of the Letta Government is there and, unfortunately, it is a novelty that does not reassure us at all. This Government, in fact, is based on the axis and on the deep harmony with Forza Italia. The alliance is explicit on the front of electoral reform and institutional reform and already this existence of a double majority is bizarre and disturbing. You know what criticism we are making about the proposed electoral law. We told him and we'll tell him again. It is for these reasons, not for prejudice, that we will vote against this Government because we cannot hide our pessimism. Let's hope, and I say this without any rhetoric, to make a mistake. We hope to be denied by the laws and measures that your Government will adopt. President, you can be sure that if your government is up to our challenges, the challenges of the country, if you propose laws that are useful for workers, for citizens, for the protection of the environment, for civil rights, for a truly just justice, we will not fail our contribution. However, there is one last question I would like to ask. This government is born with the ambition to reach the end of the legislature (because the elections will eventually arrive). As you think, after you have ruled with the center-right, to re-propose an idea of alternative government, of change for the country. With what alliances? In Sardinia, President, not only won the Democratic Party: he won with an alliance that built a serious project for that Region. It's not a rhetorical question. For us it is concrete and urgent, because we believe that only a new center-left can operate the policies necessary for the country. We as the Left Ecology and Freedom do not want to give up this project. Our vote against your government also has this meaning for us: to leave open the hope of being able to build a new center-left and an alternative for the future of our country [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u162	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, new President of the Renzi Council, ladies and gentlemen, at the first confidence of the Letta Government we abstained and our abstention was an opening of credit. Actually, it was a mistake. We have misplaced the confidence and expectations of a government that promised to attack the crisis by cutting the tax burden and constitutional reforms, reforms that have not even begun. I will tell you now: we no longer do this opening of credit, we will vote no to trust your government. The 300 days of the Letta Government (remember, President, Enrico Letta, his party partner? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group)]] have been defined by him himself as "all difficult." We say: 300 days all useless, embarrassing, where he won the logical division, complete immobilism, and the budget that leaves is a country in the midst of economic and employment crisis. You said that today, President, you were better off before, and I translate that you were better off with the government that was there before you never increased your taxes. These are the current figures: 3.2 million unemployed, 671,000 young people without work (41%), 9.5 million citizens below the poverty line, 7.2 million living with less than 1,000 euros per month, 1 billion hours of cash integration, 14,300 businesses failed in 2013 (40 per day, dear President Renzi), a public debt of 134 percent (2,080 billion euros, the second in Europe), 800 billion public spending. Infrastructure investments virtually absent, standard costs for public administration, the famous fiscal federalism blocked with a merely announced spending review. Only Greece and Malta do worse in their dealings with businesses than we do. The bureaucracy costs the business system EUR 31 billion: on average EUR 7.000 per year for each company, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, while Italy is only in the 15th place at EU level, in the ranking of where it is easier to do business. That is the crux, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: you must let the entrepreneurs of the North do business. This is the only system for economic recovery. These are the data and are not in question, and they are the result of your bankruptcy economic policy, unless in the meantime you have changed your party. Today, President Renzi, we have listened carefully to your parliamentary programmatic speech. Let me say, Mr President, that it was a speech in which you made a number of considerations, some of which are acceptable and others absolutely not, but in fact the programme, the real one, did not hear it either us or the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In recent days, you said: in February we start constitutional reforms, in March we will intervene on work and unemployment, in April we will attack public expenditure of the administration, in May we will do tax reform. Where are the contents of all these proposals? Today we only saw the headlines. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In his long speech he said that he would completely erase public administration's debts to businesses; he said, President, that he will do so through the Deposit and Loan Fund, failing that this is not possible because it would increase the national public debt by equal amount. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Attention, Mr President-in-Office of the Council (I say this clearly), to abusing the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti: it is the savings of the Italians; it is 25 million postal deposits! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then, we agree very much on the priority of school building, but here too you must tell us how you will find the resources. In Veneto it is said: "xe always a problem of schei, no de ciacole". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As mayor, like so many of us, including myself, tell us how you want to change the Stability Pact and introduce the criteria of virtuosity. That's what we'd expect! Tell us that you want to cancel the Stability Pact, which has created crises and contractions of consumption, and that you want to hit the wasteful bodies of the South heavily. He then promised to cut taxation and tax wedge by ten points: fine, but how and with what coverage? Tell us what cover. This is the theme. Tell us where you get the resources and, if you take them from unproductive public expenditure, we will vote in favour. We recognise a positive proposal: that on the transformation of public administration officials' contracts into forward contracts, which can therefore be made redundant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We read this in his mind. Well, we are certainly voting, even tomorrow, on this proposal, although I do not know whether it will do the same to its PD colleagues (who in the last few hours are very agitated) who are fishing with full hands in this electorate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We ask you for a signal, President Renzi; we ask you to cancel your Fornero reform, which has produced 500,000 exodus. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We ask you to put the reforms first, but the real ones, the ones we approved in 2005 and that you, yourself and yourself, failed in 2006 with the referendum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There was really the cut of the MPs and the reform of the Federal Senate on the German model in there. He said he'd clear up the financial markets, but I'm asking how he's gonna do it, if you're really the friends of the bankers and the financiers. Say instead that you will approve our proposal, that it wants the net separation between commercial banks and business and speculative banks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is a true reform of the banking system, but your friends will never approve. Europe's greatest demagogy: you have brought us into the abyss of the euro, which has suddenly halved the purchasing power of businesses and families. We will never be subordinate to the Europe of bureaucracy, to the Europe that does not defend our products, to the Europe of fiscal compact, which imposes insurmountable constraints in times of economic crisis. President, we are tired of being just the good ones to pay taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Our families and businesses are tired, the ones that pay 50 billion of tax left over to the Mezzogiorno coach. That North, like my Veneto, which finds itself today without any Minister (not that what was there before, Zanonato, has shone out of competence). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And speaking of incompetence, Mr President, I would like to ask you: but why has Kyenge not been reconfirmed? Maybe because we at the League were right? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] And so he got away from the embarrassment of an incompetent minister, as we have always said. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You see, last week there was the suicide of an entrepreneur in Veneto. You made the example of a Florentine trader, but in 2013 there were 50 suicides of workers, traders, entrepreneurs who were bewildered by the economic crisis, one per week. Other than proposals such as taxing BOTs: BOTs are purchased by our pensioners and workers after paying taxes, dear Minister Delrio. You don't tax a lifetime's savings. Nice signal, for a new government, to think about increasing taxes on citizens' savings again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] As for the assets, there is already and you put it: it's called IMU, TASI, TARI, TARES, IMU that you know well and that in Florence has increased by 500 percent to shops and companies, to the face of the cutting of taxes that is waving! On immigration your proposal is inadmissible, we say no to the jus soli, no to the jus soli temperato, it has nothing to do with this demagogic forcing on citizenship to the children of the elementary schools. Ten years is a useful time for the parents of these children, at least to show that they know our country. Dear President, it is not we who must change and integrate ourselves, as you said: those who come to live with us, as well as having a job, must learn to live according to our culture, traditions, customs and customs. I am disappointed at your speech, Mr President, disappointing and unanswered, that we would have liked to hear you talk about exemptions for flooded and earthquake victims, the problem of frontier workers, Expo, proposals for the thousands of businesses fleeing abroad, but obviously yours is a non-programme, there are those who have no statute and you have today snapped the non-programme. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u165	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the senators and senators of the New Right Centre will vote with conviction on the government's confidence, because they do not consider the nation's emergencies to be exhausted and because they share the immediate ways of coping with it that we have agreed together. This renewed, not even a year after the beginning of the legislature, the experience of an abnormal majority with an area enrolled in the European People's Party and another that will join the European Socialist Party in the coming days. This is because it confirms the need to accompany Italy towards conditions of greater institutional, economic and social solidity so as to remove those dangers of democratic decline that would inevitably result in insecurity and malaise. Today, our different principles, our different visions must express a common denominator, useful to bring out a shared ethical basis of the nation, to represent its reasons in the European dimension, to allow internal reforms destined to last over time, even when the best circumstances will allow us to compete with each other, in mutual respect. In recent days you, President Renzi, and Angelino Alfano, his Minister of the Interior and our founder, have published two significant prefaces, because they are dedicated to the identity of the political cultures of belonging. You reiterated that the left is identified with equality and that this is more easily achieved in modernity. For Alfano the liberal-popular centre-right is identified with the primacy of the person himself and in his relational projections, such as the family and community forms, compared to the State. These are different approaches, however, which are easy to compose, if right and left remove the political-scientific thought - we might say mechanical - of their elites and re-evaluate the humanitarian traditions rooted in their respective peoples. It is therefore a question of favouring the common sense of the people, over the commonplace of certain bourgeoisies, that is, the common sense deposited by the national tradition over the political correctness of a cosmopolitan misconception of modernity. I think of the way in which Don Camillo and Peppone faced together the flood of the river, that everything overwhelmed, worrying to save people, but with them also the seed, so that the earth, once withdrawn the waters, could resume to yield. That is why, Mr President, we appreciate your cautious statements on ethically sensitive issues, not only in relation to the composite nature of your majority, but we hope even more that the natural family retains a necessary primacy in our organization, both social and economic, and that demographic recovery is the first basis of development. More generally, we are convinced that only a society made vital by rules that respect its principles and encourage its action will prove capable of growing. That is why we have shared the priority given to reducing the tax burden on labour, whose coverage cannot be found in other forms of taxation. Just as it seemed significant to us his invocation of labour and enterprise rules useful to attract investments, foreign ones certainly, but also those diffused internal ones - we add - that they are produced from small and very small enterprises, in agriculture, in services, in the manufacture and, as such, in need of simple and certainly applied rules, of a friendly tax, because they are oriented in the first place to the advice and, therefore, to the loyal collaboration with the taxpayer. And even when you invoked legal certainty, you touched the strings of those who for years have signalled the grave anomaly of a country in which the justice of every order and rank seems too imponderable to encourage the entrapment and guarantee the person from fear of abuse. The work plan, which you rightly considered to be a priority, will perhaps be the decisive challenge for our common good will, because it will require the disposal of mutual prejudices and the pragmatic search for solutions for which we give you a simple advice: do not act like Professor Fornero. You listen above all to the reasons of the enterprise, that is the reasons of those who do it, despite a time made difficult by uncertain expectations. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] But freeing society obviously also means reforming the state, starting from its deciding institutions and then, down the branches, up to its managerial bureaucracies and its simplest servants. Our common ambition cannot be limited to an electoral law that, however necessary, acquires full meaning if it is functional to institutions simplified in the dimension and in the decision-making processes, but still, even the one in which you are today, representative of the people. We do not renounce the idea of handing over to society the power to decide directly the elected, and in particular the first among them, the head of the Executive. Just as we share with you the need to overcome a confused federalism, even on a multiple basis, by giving the State a power of last resort whenever the primary national interest appears at stake. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you want to be a bearer of new and faster methods of government action. The new centre-right has also been set up on the basis of the desire to speed up change. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] Together we will be able to render a service to the nation that will last over time and - why not? - rewarding electorally for who makes it. Only one thing we will need to overcome difficulties that will not be lacking: that mutual loyalty that feeds the virtuous circuit of trust, because, in order to urge it in our national community we will have to demonstrate that we can generate it first of all here among ourselves, in the responsible functions that are assigned to us according to the good of all. So, with these wishes, good navigation, Mr President. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u168	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who listen to us from outside, the 63rd Government of the Italian Republic is born today. He was born exclusively on the basis of betrayal and lies: betrayal of NCD towards the father master, betrayed - as he claims - in the moment of need. The other is more bleak: yours, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and your party's party towards the voters of the primary, humiliated and raped by the rehabilitation of a criminal tax fraudster, who fell from the Senate thanks to the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] Mr. Renzi, why in your campaign for the PD secretariat have you never - and I would stress - mentioned the idea of being involved with the criminal? [[Comments from the FI Group]] Mr. Renzi, why didn't you ever ask for the votes by revealing in the sunlight your unbridled ambition to go to Palazzo Chigi? Paraphrasing your little consultation scene, I tell you, Mr. Renzi, that we of the 5 Star Movement embrace one by one the betrayed voters of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You had the courage to dismiss your President-in-Office of the Council, not in Parliament, but in the PD office, in your private rooms, paid with the money of us Italian taxpayers. In short, the old classic maneuver of Palazzo, which would pale even Andreotti, Forlani, Craxi: maneuver endorsed by the President of the Republic, supreme guarantor of the dark powers [[Comments from the PD Group]] , supported by your personal ambition, Mr. Renzi [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and carried out without even remotely involving Parliament, now reduced to a mere "votificio" of government measures. So, Mr. Renzi, would we not have respect for the institutions? You yourself, Mr President, were able to say in December: On the 9th, I won't drop the government. And we all saw what happened. On the 15th he said: "All PD will help Enrico Letta in the European Semester." If this is how it helps the Italian people, then we are serene and maybe even make a hashtag. On the 23rd he said: I'm running for mayor for the next five years, and I'm meeting you here today as unvoted President of the Council. On February 9, 2014 he said: I don't want to go to the government without going to the popular vote. And in this regard I spare you any kind of comment. Finally, the biggest one, Mr President: on 4 December 2013, you asked Letta: But how can one govern with Alfano, Giovanardi and Formigoni? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussolini.]] Now, Mr. Renzi, we ask you: how can you govern with Alfano, Giovanardi and Formigoni? What do you expect to do with a new Executive born in the same perimeter as the majority of the Led Government? The facts show irrefutably that you, Mr Renzi, are a cheat. The facts show irrefutably that you, Mr Renzi, are a great liar. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] You, Mr President, are the Vanna Marchi of politics.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u169	Senator Santangelo, please contain your expressions and use appropriate language in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u170	SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I will use appropriate language. You, Mr Renzi, are a great liar: you say one thing and do exactly the opposite. We will reduce the costs of politics and, meanwhile, its Party has cashed in these years 820 million euros as electoral refunds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And not happy, a few days ago the PD, while you were already in here, was complicit in the approval of the law "scam" on public funding to parties, which every year changes name but always remains. Renzi begins to give back the money to Italian citizens. Enough with the fuff! Now, thanks to us, you can also - if you like - pour everything through an IBAN code into a fund that is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, as you said. Do it, do it now. Don't just make promises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You came here to talk to us about confrontation. Mr Tomaselli (PD). We repented! SANTANGELO (M5S). And, then, President Renzi, I tell you what is the comparison that the 5 Star Movement makes within the appropriate locations. I would remind you of just a few of the events that have taken place in Parliament over the last three months, because ten minutes would not be enough. On 6 November, the 5 Star Movement presented concrete measures aimed at half parliamentary allowances. CARDINALI (PD). It's a lie. SANTANGELO (M5S). It was proposed to reduce the daily allowance and to abolish the daily allowance to Members who were absent. Mr President, we are saying that we do not pay Members who do not come to work. Ask, Mr President, and ask who you will trust today, as you voted. It was proposed to abolish the parliamentary term of office cheque, the same as you had Mr Berlusconi receive. Let's talk about 180,000 euros. Ask who you're going to trust tonight and ask how you voted. Half of the representation costs, such as blue cars, were still proposed. Ask, Mr President, who will trust you today as you voted. That, Mr President, is not a fake, but a fact. One concrete example is the parliamentary acts presented by us common citizens of the 5 Star Movement, and which you rejected, which, translated into euros, means EUR 120 million per year. You, Mr President, came here this evening to talk to us about Europe. You came here believing to tell us the usual story, but tell the Italians that they are out of the way. Instead of talking about the United States of Europe, come and talk about that Europe that you have made: the only monetary Europe. Come over here and talk about MES and fiscal compact. Let's tell the Italians: it is over 50 billion euros, a bill that Italy will have to pay for the next twenty years. Where are you going to get this money? What do you want to do with this? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another great shame, Mr President, is your old government team. We leave immediately: Angelino Alfano, the Minister of the Interior, author of historical laws shame to try to protect his former master. She called it - not me but her - and I quote: "guilty of an affair of which as an Italian I am ashamed, involving a six-year-old girl." So, by your own admission, you have a deporter of women and children at your side in this government. [[Comments from PD and NCD Groups. Applause from Senator Airola.]] Then there is Federica Guidi, at the Ministry of Economic Development, who is in an unworthy and gigantic conflict of interest: he owns companies linked to public and municipal companies. But the most shameful aspect is that you placed a pawn of Mr. Berlusconi at the Ministry that deals with the radio and television system. Always you, Mr. Renzi: it's called conflict of interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are not talking about the Minister of Labour, Giuliano Poletti, president of the Red Cooperatives, involved in the power of the known Red Regions. Know immediately that the 5 Star Movement will present, from next Wednesday, two motions of distrust, one to the Minister of Economic Development Guidi and the other to the Minister of Labour Poletti. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Bravo, Bravo! [[Comments from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Then, Mr President, this is the "chicca": Italy is the country with the highest rate of graduates in law, and Andrea Orlando was appointed Minister of Justice; two days ago he was Minister of the Environment. Is this the meritocracy you want to carry on? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, there are clear cross-interests between you...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u171	Come to the conclusion, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u172	SANTANGELO (M5S). ...Interests crossed by those who have held hands for at least 20 years [[Senator Santangelo beats his fist on the bench. Comments from the PD Group]] This is Italy. We are talking about Berlusconi and De Benedetti: subtle and occult powers. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Know, Mr. Renzi, that we don't trust you. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). That's good. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are the only opposition in this country, and we will continue to be. PUGLIA (M5S). Bravo! SANTANGELO (M5S). We are a real opposition, hard and without discounts: we will expose you, Mr President, your Government and the unspeakable agreements that have brought you here today. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u175	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking to you here on behalf of Forza Italia and its leader, the last Prime Minister elected by the people: Silvio Berlusconi. His, President Renzi, is a Government with a new leadership, but with the same majority as the previous one, the one that has self-defined a majority of small agreements. It is the third government in office without the voters voting for it. As you well know, a democracy is no longer such if the government is not an expression of voters, if it has not been chosen by the citizens. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] For this obvious and fundamental reason, President Renzi, we cannot support the way in which you have come to carry out this task. We can't give her our trust. However, if the ways in which the Letta Government was distrusted are not acceptable, instead the positive confrontation that was born between the two majority forces in the country, and their respective leaders, gave a strong signal that a clear and shared bipolarism can finally have citizenship in our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] This testifies to the failure of the historical prejudice between center-right and center-left and can really give meaning to the birth of what we might call the Third Republic. It is a prejudice that has been translated for far too long, President, into an alleged as ridiculous cultural and moral superiority on the part of the left, until it becomes an angry and obtuse anti-Berlusconism. We do not accept it: we have never endured it and we no longer intend to tolerate it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We are proud of our history, our work and our cultural roots. For these very reasons we will never give preliminary consideration to the proposals and measures of your Government, but we will be ready to evaluate them, perhaps proposing alternatives, with the loyalty of a responsible and constructive opposition. I confirm that, on a path of shared reform and on measures useful to the country, we are there. Perhaps this is the good time for two leaders, like you and President Berlusconi, to be able to esteem, speak, confront, exchange experiences and projects and collaborate for the country without prejudice, without exchanges or armchairs, with the sole interest of the common good. Perhaps, as you say, President Renzi, this is a very good time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In the past, however, we have tried to collaborate on two occasions with two governments: the technical one of the non-political Monti and the political one of the non-Letta leader, but in both cases we realized that strange majorities, games of armchairs, sometimes very difficult to abandon, are not enough, but we need a concrete political program. It cannot work with a left-wing justiceist who has failed to respect the law and every rule of democracy in order to take out of this Chamber the enemy of all time. Mr President, this is an issue that your Government cannot ignore. The political use of justice has been one of the great Italian anomalies for 20 years. Just as it has no equal in the Western world the close functional contiguity and the relationship between accusers and judges that exists in Italy. The guarantees for every citizen, the third party of judges in relation to politics, the protection of privacy from the abuse of interceptions, the effective equality between accusation and defence and the scandalously long duration of the trials are fundamental issues of freedom and civilization. Your government will inaugurate a truly new season if you have the moral and political courage to face these reforms and resolve them by keeping away from any judicial prejudice. Mr President, we have listened to your government programme. This is the first time that you have addressed the country from a parliamentary Chamber and we hope that you have felt all the responsibility and seriousness of the commitment you have made with every word you have expressed today in the Senate, in the democratic institution par excellence. Several things we appreciated: he spoke of asphyxiating bureaucracy; of the fact that the local markets and much financial markets have been listened to; of the demand for simplicity; of the exit from the deteriorating literary genre of impiety judgment on Italy, while abroad everything is always fine. He also had courage and boldness - let me say this - in telling this House that we will be the last senators to give the trust and, therefore, I answer them with a joke: "Hail, Matthew, dying you salutant." He'll let me. Out of the joke, we found appropriate reference to the German model of the Bundesrat with its 69 members who are expressed by the German Lander Governments, much better - he will forgive me - than the Senate model based on the 108 mayors of the provincial capitals that will probably no longer exist. Excellent the total release of the debts of the public administration, but attention to the bureaucracies of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, which I think have prevented up to now exactly what you have evoked. The commitment to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti seems to be around a value of 50 billion still to be paid, in spite of 91 calculated by Banca d'Italia and 40 paid, and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti cannot be the only instrument that can take over this payment. Excellent implementation of the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. I also welcome the invitation you have made to us today to deepen our reasoning on the Delrio bill, which for us, however, remains absolutely unacceptable - I say this to the Secretary-General of the Council Presidency - in the methods and terms in which it was proposed. However, we are ready - as you said today - to reason on your connection with the constitutional reform of Title V. We welcomed the call for reform to be necessary and urgent. We have appreciated the indication of work as a priority to be addressed urgently. But I must confess, at this point, a little disappointment, because I imagined that on the subject of work, business, tax and public administration reform, there was and could be another kind of deepening. I realize that the time at your disposal has been stingy, but the dossiers that await you are difficult, ponderous and stranded, as you know, forever - you yourself said it today - in ministerial bureaucracies. Just as it prepares to resolve the payment of debts of the public administration as never happened in the past, we hope that the same determination will put in the study, the deepening and the search for solutions to the problems that we consider to be equally important. President Renzi, we appreciate many of your intentions, your intentions, but we are different. We come from different cultures. For example, the culture of enterprise differentiates us: enterprise creates wealth, creates development and creates work. We cannot talk about employment, as you have done, without starting from the enterprise. We are a people of entrepreneurs but, unfortunately, we are no longer a country of businesses. We must work on this. Entrepreneurs do not need help: they need the complex conditions that enable them to do business, to be free to do business. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are asking you what millions of Italians are asking for, namely a reversal of the trend towards the recessionist policy of the last two years; a policy which, in the name of Europe and stability, has made Italian citizens pay a very high price. When you finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said that we will be able to assert our reasons in Europe when we have done our homework, I say to you that this is an expression already dear to one of your predecessors, Professor Monti, who, however, has brought no luck to him or to Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is a profoundly wrong expression because German-led Europe is not and will never be our guide.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u176	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u177	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'm almost done, Mr. President. You said today that Mrs Merkel is not our problem, but I repeat that Mrs Merkel is still a problem in Europe today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We must think of a profoundly different Europe, of a Europe of peoples and not of bureaucracies. You also spoke today of subalternity towards Europe; you said: "Let us free ourselves." We agree. Therefore, Italy must assert its voice, its weight, in order to achieve this objective, not against Europe but for Europe, in order to save Europe from national selfishness. We, President, on a path that leads Italy to become the country of opportunities and not resignation we are there and we will be there. But today, for the many reasons I have tried to remember, we cannot vote for your government's trust. However, if the content and timing of the reforms we have shared are respected, you will find in us a loyal opposition, ready to support everything that will go in the direction of our country's interest. Never, never will we get away from the responsibilities that we will be called by our citizens, our voters, from the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u180	ZANDA (PD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a moment ago Senator Santangelo had fun with a speech that was poor in content but full of insults, even to the President of the Republic and to his person; a speech that I did not like. I believe that even the opposition does not agree with the forms of political incivilization, verbal violence, and basically does not agree with Parliament's contempt. Senator Santangelo said that this opposition is a loyal opposition. I think loyalty is different. You, Mr President, will be operating under very harsh conditions. He's going to occupy that room that Pietro Nenni called the button room. There you will find many buttons but, pressing them, it is not necessary that everyone responds with the readiness that it would serve. It will find an unstable international framework, serious economic and social problems and a strongly weakened state. Despite such a difficult context, there is a great expectation in our country for decisions that will determine the future of Italy for many years. This is the great responsibility that awaits you. The Senators of the Democratic Party will soon vote for her trust and support the Government in the work of change. In recent days we have learned of a slight increase in GDP in the fourth quarter of last year: a positive signal that should not be overrated, but that perhaps announces a change of trend. Much of the stability of the public accounts, the lowering of the spread and the respect of the international community is due to President Napolitano and the two personalities who, in extreme political conditions, have occupied the uncomfortable chair of Palazzo Chigi over the last two years: the life-senator Mario Monti and Mr Enrico Letta. And to them goes our thanks and all our gratitude. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and NCD groups.]] We will only be able to tell ourselves out of the crisis when GDP will stabilize at least to the European average; when the "triple A" will be returned to us and, above all, when industrial work and production will return to growth. Let us therefore welcome the serious measures which you announced on international reforms, on school, on work and on industrial development, on tax, on the tax wedge, on the debt of the public administration, on justice and others necessary to rebuild the country's backbone, to restore momentum to our economy and to make it return to growth. If this is the challenge, the Democratic Party has a duty to put at the service of the country all the competences, capabilities and political force it has, starting with the commitment of its national secretary. This is the political basis of the new Government, as solid as possible at this stage. After the 2018 elections, with a new electoral law, we are convinced that a good bipolar system, in which left and right each return to exercise their role, can re-introduce a healthy democratic competition in our country. As you know, Mr President, crises can also be an opportunity. The last two decades have exacerbated inequalities: the rich have become richer and all the others have become impoverished. It is necessary for its government to impose economic policy with the absolute priority of combating the poverty of families, the unemployment of young people and women and the reduction of the intolerable distance between the North and the South of the country. At least half of the possibilities of transforming the timid signs of recovery into lasting growth are linked to a radical shift in European policies. A Europe with high economic austerity and low political integration cannot work. The first mission of the Italian Semester must be to reaffirm the principles of the Maastricht Treaty, which require concrete solidarity between the Member States of the Union and development policies capable of improving the quality of life of European citizens: the exact opposite of current policies. Europe needs more political union. The marginal role of the Union in foreign policy and, last but not least, in Ukraine's drama, and economic shortsightedness have the same origin: the lack of a common European political will. I do not believe in evidence of strength, Mr President, and I am not asking you to go to Brussels to show your muscles. Rules change, they don't violate. I would ask you to remind our European partners very bluntly that the lack of a true Union is the reason for the growth of the anti-European and populist forces. Italy must help Europe to understand how the complexity of the problems cannot be answered only with rigour. Economic systems depend on the functioning of the institutions, in the sense that, if the State works badly, no economic system will ever work well. In the great crisis of the 1920s, the world economy, the free market and capitalism itself would never have recovered without efficient and forward-looking public policies. The terrible crisis that has been waging world economies for seven years has many origins, one of all: the idea that there is no longer a need for the state and that rules and controls are the main obstacle to economic growth. From this weak thought came the deregulation that, linked to globalization, has produced a financial cataclysm still out of control. There are $650,000 billion worth of toxic securities around the world, ten times the world's GDP. In an institutionally fragile country like Italy, post-liberal ideologies not only damaged the economy, but also affected the state. This is demonstrated by the nine decree-laws at the same time that have expired in recent weeks. This is confirmed by the 478 implementing measures still to be adopted, without which laws useful for the growth and development of the economy cannot be fully implemented. This degenerative process, made up of decrees, trusts, omnibus laws and delegations, must be arrested. It does not only damage the proper functioning of the institutions. It harnesses the economy, confuses it and disorients it. The establishment of constitutional and institutional reforms indicated by President Renzi makes this sense: among all the priorities, the first is to rebuild the structure of the State and restore confidence to the citizens. Indeed, Mr President, it is not Italy that is rusted. Unfortunately, it is the State and its apparatus that are involved. In this context, the most complex challenge, Mr President, is that of public bureaucracy, administrative and technical bodies, central and peripheral systems. The Senators of the Democratic Party will support the commitment, central to the Government, of Minister Madia. Italy, in its seventy years of Republic, had 63 governments: all engaged in the reform of public administration. Nevertheless, public bureaucracy today has a much lower quality than in the first decades of the post-war period. I'm addressing the President of the Senate. It is urgent that, on the basis of a programmatic report from the Government, the senators devote an entire session of their work to the analysis of the obstacles that so far have prevented the Italian public administration from keeping up with the times. If Parliament wants to support the Government in a profound renewal of bureaucracy - and the Democratic Party strongly wants it - it is necessary to create the political and parliamentary conditions that can favor those serious and radical choices that have never been made in 70 years. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will be called on to take many difficult decisions on a daily basis. I am sure that your Government will keep the bar straight on social solidarity, political Europe and state reform. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u181	Colleagues, this is the end of the television show.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u183	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u184	DAVICO (GAL). Mr President, given the time, I will be very brief. My Group, on the way, has developed a voting orientation in a certain sense, and President Ferrara has rightly interpreted the sentiment that belongs to us and we share it in the way that we have previously heard. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, last December I put my face - to use an expression that you may like - and, on the occasion of the confidence of President Letta, I voted to ensure stability and reform in the country, as he asked us on that occasion. I had chosen to open a line of credit with that Government and, again, in natural continuity with my previous choice, I decided to offer my trust. The majority that today supports the current Government, beyond a generational renewal further than what had already happened, seems to me to be the same as a few months ago. I therefore think it makes no sense to make a different choice, even opposed to that of then. However, I want to be clear: I will not fail to check the quality of the proposals and, above all, the results that they will achieve. They are ambitious projects, those you have announced and which we know, and very urgent, in which each of us is obliged to believe, because this for the country is yet another effort of harmony to offer a chance to improve the quality of life of the Italians, starting above all from the last. All I have to do is wish her well and wish her a good luck, as is perhaps said in more youthful terms, because the best wishes to her, in this case, are addressed to the whole country: the fate of everyone is in the hands of your Government and this Parliament. The responsibilities, also given the moment we are living, I think are enormous, so there is a need for the commitment of all, beyond belonging and cultures. Good job, then. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u187	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, apologizing for the late hour, I find myself - as was the previous time, but this time in another capacity - once again calling the order of business. In particular, the second paragraph of Article 94 of the Constitution - and I stress the source - states: "Each House grants or revokes trust by reasoned motion and voted by roll call." Similarly, Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure provides: The motion of confidence and the motion of no confidence in the Government must be reasoned and put to a roll-call vote. Again, we find ourselves with the trusted motion that reads: The Senate, after hearing the statements of the President of the Council of Ministers, approves them and passes them on to the agenda. This practice is not included in the Constitution: the motion of confidence must be accompanied by reasons that define and connotate the nature and politics of the Government, and it is not something left to chance. That's why it says it's motivated. That's the change, isn't it? Same as before, as always. We therefore ask, Mr President, that the motion of confidence in this Government be reworded and motivated, if you think that it should be so, on the part of the proposers, because this is not constitutionally correct. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u188	Senator Crimes, there is also a motivation for relationem, as indicated in the motion of confidence, where it is said that the programmatic statements are heard, and it seems to me that the broad debate that we have held throughout the day has given ample evidence of the motivations of each vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). It says in the Constitution! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, with the utmost respect for the Constitution, let's continue [[Senator Crimi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u189	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with an appeal to the Government no. 219, of Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano, Susta and Nencini. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom he will begin to call her. (The name of Senator Zanettin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Zanettin. Senator Secretary AMATI and, subsequently, Senator Secretary BARANI make the appeal. Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchioni, Carinali, Casini, Cassano, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Filippin, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghiera Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Filippin, Fincino, Fincino, Fincino, Fincino, Findino, Fingori, Fincari, Fincari, Fin The senators: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzi, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bitonci, Blundo, Bocca, Bocchio, Bonaiu, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Fasano, Fattori Lazzori Lozone, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Fin, De Siano, Divina PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u190	I declare the result of the roll-call vote with an appeal on the vote of confidence No. 219, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano, Susta and Nencini: [[Senators present 309 Senators voting 308 Majority 155 Favorables 169 Contrars 139]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u191	The Conference of Leaders, which met this evening, decided that, in conjunction with the debate on trust in the Government in the Chamber of Deputies, tomorrow's meetings will not take place. The Assembly will meet again on Wednesday 26 February, at 9.30 a.m., for the examination of the decree-law of extension terms, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies, due to expire on 28 February. The Conference of Leaders will also be convened on Wednesday to define the continuation of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u192	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-197.ana.u193	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 26 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the agenda already announced: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 0.44 p.m. on 25 February.
