ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1465. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government took place. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval, without amendments, sub-amendments and additional articles. [[Extending ironic applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] , of the amendment that I am going to submit to the Presidency, entirely replacing the single article of the bill No 1465 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 66 of 24 April 2014, which transposes the amendments proposed by the Commissions 5a and 6a together. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u9	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.43 a.m. and resumed at 10.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u12	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today, 5 June, is the bicentenary of the founding of the Carabinieri weapon. It is right that the House should remember this anniversary, in full awareness of the contribution that over the last 200 years the Carabinieri's weapon has offered to Italian history in all circumstances, with this moment of homage to the Carabinieri's weapon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on amendment 1,900 entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1465 of conversion of the Decree-Law competitiveness and social justice, with the amendments approved by the Commissions combined budget and finances. For the general discussion on confidence, which will begin immediately after the opinion given by the Commission on the financial effects of the maxi amendment, one hour was allocated to the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. The Conference of the Leaders also decided to integrate the schedule of next week's work with the vote on the resignation presented by Senators Bignami and Mussini on Wednesday 11 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u14	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u15	Mr President, I must begin by expressing my appreciation for the work of your Presidency and that of the Government in following in a very linear way the practice of tabling an amendment, on which the Government puts its trust, which corresponds exactly in the text to the one dismissed by the 5th Commission. For me this is a positive notation, which I address to you and the Government for the approach given. This has made the Commission's work absolutely simple. We did not merely observe the correspondence between the text which was fired and the text which contained the amendment on which the Government raised the question of trust. In the technical report there are four conditions which explicitly concern the coverage. Mr President, this is normal because, having adopted amendments, there is - as always - a work of filing cover, which is correct and then carried out by the Government and the offices of the Accounting Office. Therefore, as can be seen from the amendment, there are four conditions that are absolutely covering. We have carried out a verification and we have seen the need for them to be present in the text, because otherwise the amendment would present cover profiles. None of them affect the texts, because they all affect only the covers. For this reason, Mr President, I would ask the Government to accept these four conditions in the amendment on which it raised the question of trust. I believe that in this way the 5th Commission has fully fulfilled its mandate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u16	I would ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to accept this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u17	Mr President, the Government certainly accepts these four conditions by including them in the text and, therefore, considers the text on which it has put the question of confidence on the four points - Article 16 (8), Article 20, Article 21 and Article 50 - by making the cover adjustments indicated in the technical report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u18	The Presidency takes note of the acceptance of the requests. I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u19	Mr President, we believe that this measure is not at all centred on. In fact, it could have been the centerpiece of Italy's relaunching action; instead, our country not only does not relaunch itself but is sitting down. My fellow Senators will have read the data communicated by ISTAT yesterday, where one of them is very worrying, referring to unemployment, which has surpassed - for the first time in thirty years - 13% (youth unemployment is even 43%). The figure on unemployment highlights the path of impoverishment that our country is taking. If people do not work, if families do not have income and do not spend and therefore there is no domestic demand, the country is destined to be enveloped on itself. We can already comment on the data currently recorded, but we can also predict what they will be in the near future. The government is active, indeed very active in proclamations and in selling image, but it is completely seated in relation to effective themes and actions. This could give rise to a new season, which could do at least hope for the country. The problem - it is useless to go around - is that in Italy the cost of labour is too high; this makes our industrial system not competitive, and not being competitive you do not work. We know that a country that does not work does not create production and does not create wealth and, therefore, is destined to go down a road substantially. We have suggested that we focus on a specific subject. Looking at Europe at 18, I wonder how it is possible that countries with completely different economies, with completely different levels of taxation, with completely different previous debt situations, countries with different problems that would need different and differentiated monetary policies have a single currency. We have a strong currency, indeed very strong, which makes it more convenient to buy cheap products from abroad than to produce in this country. This is the synthesis of everything and if you don't get out of this spiral, in it we risk dying. In fact, we heard the President of Confindustria this morning admit that we have a virtually shattered industrial system. If our country does not start working again it cannot produce, if it is not produced it does not generate wealth, if there is no wealth there will be no redistribution of wealth. The only thing we can start again is misery. We cannot, therefore, Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, give the confidence to this Government that we consider too short-sighted at this point, because it has absolutely not framed the situation at the moment and it does not see what is under its nose, that is, a country that is leaking, while the Government is self-incense and is pleased with what it is not even doing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u21	Mr President, in November 2011, the Democratic Party put up some beautiful posters on which it was written: "Berlusconi get out! Youth unemployment is at 20%. Patience is over. Berlusconi left (we also discovered, from revelations ranging from President Obama's former treasury minister to former Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero, who left for an international conspiracy). In any case, what was the cause, has gone away, and since then youth unemployment, the one that pushed the Democratic Party to say "Berlusconi leave! Patience has gone from 29 percent to 46 percent, while overall unemployment has gone from 8 percent to 13.6 percent. These are cold percentages, however, which mean that there are one million and 430,000 more unemployed. That means 1,500 more a day, more than one per minute. Every minute, then, an extra unemployed person since Berlusconi was removed from the post he had obtained through democratic elections. Sure, but these are the sacrifices - it is said - that the country has to face in order to heal the accounts. And the accounts were healed as follows. When the President of the Council Berlusconi left the Government the public debt amounted to 1,888 billion euros, at the end of February (last data provided by the Bank of Italy) to 2,107 billion. So 219 billion more, that is about 10 million euros more public debt every hour, constantly from November to today. But we are talking about the end of February. Then came the completion of history and finally arrived the saving Renzi Government. The Renzi Government, among other things, has launched this measure on which yet another confidence has been placed today, with reduced time to nothing, practically, for the general discussion. In this decree, in article 50, paragraph 7, there is one very clear thing written: the issue of government bonds increases compared to the forecasts. The figure contained in article 50, paragraph 7, is in fact 40 billion, which does not mean an increase of 40 billion, but it is the total which brings the further increase of the public debt: this would be how the accounts are healed. We have seen the effects on employment, because there are already new data, since history has changed towards and Italy has changed towards: Italy has changed towards and, in fact, unemployment has increased further. And in this measure, unfortunately, not only is there nothing to reduce it, but there are all the premises for increasing even more. Let me explain the reasons: there are the famous 80 euros for some categories of people, who will certainly receive them with pleasure (and it will be a good thing that we do today, if we look at it separately from the rest), but those 80 euros come at the price of the increase for all of the tax on savings, the increase for all of the tax on the house, the increase for all of the taxes on the gasoline, the increase of the taxes on the pension funds and the increase of the taxes on the passport. So it's a vile round, a substantial scam that was meant to win the election. The goal has been achieved, but the elections must be won and then do the good of the country, because it is not a game. It is not like the football championship that, once won, the result is achieved. Here, however, what counts is what is done after and, unfortunately, in this measure, which also bears the words "social justice" in the title, there is social injustice, because, with equal income, despite Article 53 of the Constitution says that each citizen must contribute according to his/her own possibilities, there will be those (and it is the employees) who will benefit from the 80 euros (it is only a very small part of the Italian workers) and instead there will be the self-employed and pensioners who - I repeat - will have nothing at all. Or rather, not only will they not have anything, but they will also suffer the increases I have already mentioned: the increase in savings taxes and other tax increases. Therefore, there are all the premises - and, in fact, they are already fulfilling their effects - for an increase in unemployment, a further impoverishment of our country and a lesser competitiveness of our companies, with effects - ahinoi - of further damage to Italy. We really believe that we should change towards, but not in this way, that is, adding to the policy of decline and to the depressive politics carried out by previous governments also demagogic moves, which do nothing but create further imbalances in the country, taking exactly the wrong direction. That is why we will vote - my own is not an explanation of vote - very strongly against this decree, although we know that there is a positive effect entirely secondary, that it is the 80 euros for these lucky few, that are actually a game of turn, indeed a game of fraud, because on the other side they take away much more money; all, with mechanisms of further bureaucratization, of ulterior difficulty and of ulterior fulfillment for the companies and the public offices, that will make our country even more inefficient. Consequently, our vote will be against, because we are in favour of growth and not for decline. We are of the opinion that only by giving the Italians, companies and individual citizens the opportunity to make use of their possibilities in the work and intrapresa will there be a recovery, and not with the hand of the increasingly heavy and increasingly intrusive State, which destroys the possibilities of companies and individuals to exercise their talents and to create wealth for the benefit of all. [[Applause from the Fi-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I want to make a contribution to the debate in order to interpret with you and colleagues the recommendations that come from the European Union. I believe, Mr Deputy Minister, that we must not stop at the finger when it points to the moon, because it would be foolish. We must therefore see what the European Union tells us and, above all, see what we have to say to the European Union. The European Union tells us that it is time to take concrete action for development, but above all, it tells us that small and medium-sized enterprises must be helped. When one realizes that Italian industrialists are flattened on the Democratic Party, of the two one: either it is the Democratic Party that does the interests of the industrialists, or it is the industrialists who see in the Democratic Party the interest of a caste that, in fact, is holding the bridles and prevents the development of our country. The medical history is used to understand what may be signs that lead to a diagnosis in order to arrive at a therapy. It takes courage to intervene. I remind you that in 1982 a President of the Council - called Bettino Craxi - with the reduction of four points in the cost of labour, did the real structural reform that led Italy to be the fifth economic power in the world. This morning we read that we are overtaken by Brazil as an industrial turnover: I don't think our country deserves this. Europe's recommendations tell us to intervene on civil justice, because - otherwise - investors do not arrive. I remember that in Spain, in 2013, there were almost 50 billion foreign investments; in Italy less than 10 billion. What does that mean? It means he lacks confidence in our country, and we believe that this trust should be given him. We believe that the Maastricht parameters, once we have reached the European Semester, must be changed, but not only to have a better future, as Mr Malan said, which has brought figures that there is an unemployed person per minute (I believe that this country does not deserve this). But we must also recover the scam, which was done with the availability of certain Presidents of the Council, certain Presidents of the Republic and certain summits of the Bank of Italy, who allowed it, with exchange rates and with the signing of rules that were in favour of Germany, France and England, but against Italy. We must therefore recover that gap and recover the scam that has made Germany enrich and impoverish Italy. That is why we cannot trust this Government, because it lacks the courage that other Presidents of the Council have shown in the numbers and structural reforms. The Court of Auditors, in its 2014 report on the coordination of public finance yesterday said that the 80 euros are just a surrogate and that it takes more courage. We must be unpopular and close to certain unions. The Camusso remembers the Middle Ages and one cannot continue to think of a development when one listens to those who are cultural heritages of a past era and who can no longer return. For this reason, Mr. Deputy Minister, we invite you to have more courage. Surely, if the government comes here with real structural manoeuvres, to Craxi or Berlusconi, it can have our support. Until then, however, we can only tell you that we have no confidence and, therefore, we will not agree. We wish you, of course, for Italy and in the interest of Italy, a good job, but on completely different tracks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u23	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u26	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we of the Italian component Work in the course of the Mixed Group do not want to accuse the Government of saying that this decree was an electoral maneuver, in compliance with those who, through this measure, will benefit from a small increase in income from employees, or those who will have a major IRAP deduction. It would be an offense to the intelligence and dignity of those who have found themselves benefiting from this maneuver: it would be like giving them sales. We believe that no person, albeit in economic difficulties, wants to sell his or her dignity and freedom of choice for a few euros. The measures contained within the Decree-Law are in some respects positive, such as that referred to in Article 1, which provides for an increase in income from employees, or that referred to in Article 2, which provides for an increase in IRAP deduction, or as an increase in taxation on financial pensions. There is a shy form of social redistribution. However, she is still shy. What we are contesting is the inability to approve more courageous maneuvers, including through the adoption of the various amendments, which we believe to be improving, proposed by the opposition forces. The constructive dialogue, which was to be born within the competent Commissions, was bypassed and remained firm to the initial decree, or almost. Very few improvements were accepted, after which everything was "fried": with the maxi amendment, of course, the government closes. The Commission has shown on the one hand that it wants to give and redistribute and, on the other hand, that it wants to take and collect, through the increase in taxation, from the increase in VAT (now time: almost a year ago) to TASI, which came into force in these days, which still does not find a standard regime, and yet more. It is true, the important thing is to start an improvement path, but we cannot be content to say that it is better than nothing, otherwise, as we say in Florence, with a metaphor a bit 'ugly: an enema is fine, as long as it is free. We understand that the budget is made up of giving and having, but in order to compensate for what is given, it cannot always be asked back to the same subjects, in the form of other items. Instead, we must focus on legality and go to search for that "to have" from the escape and the submerged and find resources through the virtuous public expenditure, managing the money of the State in such a way as not to waste or to tear the public heritage, and above all without stealing. I am referring here to all those who, working for the res publica, unduly, thanks to their position, take possession of the public money paid by all those who virtuously pay taxes. We must make sure that the submerged re-emerges, also through the possibility to deduct or deduct many of the expenses that a simple family incurs during the year, avoiding to put roofs for the detractable ridiculous expenditure in quantity and quality, starting from the interest paid for bank loans, up to the sanitary expenses and the expenses incurred for the children dependent, such as those for sports activities, kindergartens and summer centers, in short, a number of voices, which are not all deductible. That's why, for all these reasons, we of the Italian component Work in Course are not able to vote for the confidence on the conversion of the decree-law under consideration, but we will say "no" in a constructive way. Our no wants to be an improvement warning, a pungolo, a push, in order to get the government to start taking into account the fact that there is a Parliament and there are oppositions to listen to. Minor voices are not always minority. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u29	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are voting against the government's confidence in yet another emergency measure. The Heads of State's exhortations to respect the functions of the constitutional bodies are of little use. Parliament has been condemned for years - and not months - to legislative production on the basis of the sole and exclusive legislative initiative of the Government and through a path that is punctually interrupted with the question of trust. This, in the end, causes damage to the production of legislation: it is known to the Government, as well as to colleagues and majority parties, that we intervene on the same subject - over months, not years - with measures whose content is substantially contrasting. We never make a detailed assessment of the impact of the measures, nor do we manage to think as we should and as we should - and this is the case, for example, of the article on TASI - in order to avoid problems for local institutions and taxpayers. A good intention, which is also contained in this measure and which we have however stressed, such as that of maintaining a part of taxation, which, on time and regularly, employees transfer to the coffers of the State, unfortunately clashes with a way that did not allow the improvement of the text as we would have liked; nor did it allow this political part to make a complex reflection, as the measure itself would have deserved. We must say no to the government, and we must do so because it continues with unbearable practices. We must say no to the government, because this measure, which also contains something interesting, does not affect the main issues that are at the origin of the economic and social crisis in this country. We must say no to the government, finally, because there is no constructive element that tries to overcome the disparity between the North and the South of this country (in fact, the data on employment reveal us that the scourge of division has become worse). We cannot fail to say no to this Government, because it treats Parliament sufficiently and its capacity to represent the overall interests of the Italian people. We cannot even say yes to this Government, because the paths it traces are confused, timid and still restrained in economic and social terms: where are the investments? Where is the productive combination of public and private capital? Where is the idea of an industrial policy? Where is the idea of emancipation of the public system from the thousand problems it has, starting with the issue of corruption of activities and functions? In short, once again, we are there, firm: we are talking about reforms, perhaps those that are less needed, and - judging by the use we make of the decree of urgency - one of the main prerequisites of institutional reforms, the overcoming of perfect bicameralism and the direct election by universal suffrage of the members of the two branches of Parliament falls. It falls because in less than sixty days we liquidate complex measures such as that in the vote, because the procedure is this: starting from the adoption of a decree-law even if the conditions of necessity and urgency (which instead must be recalled in this case). We liquidate complex measures like this in sixty days, and we do it systematically, for years and not for a short time. Therefore, we should delay ourselves to reflect more and to act on the economic and social reforms, the kind of reforms we saw carried out in the 1970s, for example those in health care (which have paid attention to the health of all and for all) or those that have introduced the right to study, support for housing for the purposes of the right to housing, as well as a system that is fairer and more attentive to workers, their families and the overall rights of our population. We should think about this, rather than about electoral ads, as often, and unfortunately, the measures proposed to Parliament by the Government are being used. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u32	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, we will give confidence to the Government in order to take on this measure, which, although it was inevitable to limit itself - it was not possible that it was otherwise - but indicates what will be and will have to be, and which we have long been waiting for, the economic policy lines of the government's action. To those who say - as Senator Uras has done now - that there is no urgency, I ask what else must happen and how much more we must wait, having the possibility, to give even a little 'breath to all those families that are in a condition of extreme suffering. With regard to the economic policy lines that this measure indicates and on which further action will have to be developed, I first mention the reduction of the tax burden on people and businesses, which will be achieved on the one hand by remodulating the load to lighten the burden on households and production, and on the other by financing further reductions through the recovery of evasion and the reduction of public expenditure. It is clear that the expected macroeconomic effect will not be explosive. Indeed, there is no doubt that if the reduction in expenditure limits inefficiencies and reduces the public perimeter, it is inevitable that this reduction will directly affect domestic demand and budgets in some way not positively support for consumption that the tax reduction will entail. This is another reason that strengthens the country's expectations and the need to carry out other reforms that will have to push in the direction of growth. But the measure in question also operates in another direction, which I believe is very important for the spirit of the country and for the climate that must involve it entirely in a great effort to revive our economy: I refer, that is, to the reversal in the sign of equity, in the sign of the awareness of the difficulties that have been going through families for fifteen years, a period that has seen a further impoverishment of some groups and an undue and abnormal enrichment of others. The 80 euros, of course, are not decisive - nobody has supported it - and they will also be a substitute for the real tax reform that will take place with the delegation, the enlargement and the structural character of the reduction on the incomes of people and that, although in a very critical area, will have to be introduced with the law of stability. However, they are an advance not to be marginalized and that certainly goes in the direction I mentioned earlier. Another important point that we believe to be at the heart of the government's future policies is the spending review, through which we must attack the huge areas of inefficiency and privilege of public administrations. We are still timidly beginning to go into spending and resources managed by the tens of thousands of public societies in which not only money is wasted but also huge areas of corruption and collusion between politics and the economy are hidden. Today's news, which has really upset us, concerning the phenomena of corruption in Venice, tells us how deep the system of corruption is in our public administration and how it will unfortunately be frustrated every effort to revive the economy and attract foreign investments, on which the Government is also working with great commitment, if those conditions of legality that are the presupposition of economic growth and attractiveness of economic operators will not be created. From this point of view, I believe that there are some measures in the measure that have been underestimated, which concern rules of transparency on financial flows, accessibility of accounting data, which anticipate a whole open date policy that will have to be the way the administration operates and that are one of the keys to the prevention of corruption. Another point is to provide liquidity to the system by speeding up the payment of public administration credits. We will carry out careful monitoring of this operation, which has already begun for more than a year and a half and which must be completed, because in the presence of a system that is struggling to give credit to companies that are in difficulty, the only way to restore liquidity to these latter ones is to reimpose flows of public finance. Finally, the other point that we think is very important is to make budgetary policies go hand in hand with reform policy, institutional policy and economic policy: to reform the way Parliament operates, to correct a federalism that is now insane, to intervene in public administration, to reform the labour market. These are the reforms on which the government is expected to test. A challenging test, because the data on the economy are severe: GDP, employment and consumption are firm or in decline, and in order to move this inertia, this stalemate of our growth must soon give a shock that revives the country, because the hope in the change that the European vote expressed, giving an exceptional credit to the Premier, cannot be frustrated. It would be a further depressing signal for our country, because a country that hoped for change and once again was disappointed, would hardly mobilize to participate in a collective effort, and the only response that can avoid this disillusionment and frustration of this hope that was expressed in the vote is the work that young people expect, the work that families are waiting for for young people and whose lack creates real social, family and individual dramas. The measure we are approving today, although with certain contradictions on which we have discussed in the Commission, and on which we can then go back to another place to correct them, wants to express this sign of change. From here we start, but there will still be a lot of work to be done, and we will obviously support the Government and make our contribution to this. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u33	I address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to the students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Luigi Einaudi) of Sora, in the province of Frosinone, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u36	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the robust reduction of the tax wedge, the tax levy and the contribution levy, I think we all agree: there is a very general consensus. However, it is on the next step that different schools of thought begin to manifest their distinctions and to confront each other: is it more appropriate and convenient for the country, i.e. for growth and employment, to support consumption or to support the productive base of our country? With this decree, the Renzi Government has loaded the lever of demand, the lever of consumption. The great part of the audience of the employees to whom this provision is addressed will not be able, as Senator Carraro (with whom I disagree), to save what more received in pay envelope, because that is not a crowd of great savers. This is therefore a measure aimed at supporting consumption. It has been said that Italy has two diseases: a chronic disease, which cures with structural reforms, and an acute disease, which instead needs to overcome facing the contraction of demand and the deep social discomfort, what was once called the "crisis of the fourth week". That's what the government came up with. However, a government sensitive to these economic and social issues cannot forget that there are also other categories, that there are other social situations that need to be addressed at a later stage. In fact, there are also the categories of pensioners and a range of self-employment (not everything, because on self-employment will operate the fiscal delegation), and there is the theme posed here by the New Right Center, but not only by that Group, of the family quotient. In this measure the signal on the supply side is there, but it is more contained in absolute value, being a 10% reduction of IRAP, significant for the direction of the road but certainly not as a structural element for the revival of our enterprise. Even the roofing basket has aroused some perplexity in us. Leaving aside the 2% increase in the rate on the revaluations of Bank of Italy's shares, there is an increase from 20% to 26% in the rate on financial income which - it is said - are aligned with the European average (in this respect I do not entirely agree, because we have to see how the calculations are made, since in Europe the taxation on pensions also takes place within the IRPEF). We believe, however, that this is a measure to which we must return. It is also planned to renegotiate, to a certain extent, the contracts of goods and services of the public administration, on which we express some concerns. In order to confirm the signs of the end of recession and the decisive start of the recovery, there is therefore a need for measures of an economic nature capable of acting, as I said earlier, both on the demand side and on the supply side. If the government succeeds quickly, obviously with the support of the majority, to identify and to prepare incisive measures on these two fronts the recovery can be faster than we anticipate. I am optimistic, and I say this because the economy and finance need concrete facts, numbers, figures, meaningful interventions, but they also feed on another aspect. The extraordinary percentage of the consensus obtained on 25 May by Prime Minister Renzi and his party, an unequivocal sign of trust and hope also against old and new demagogies, and the opening of a scenario of reformist stability, are all immaterial factors that can lead to a climate in which greater confidence is infused in the market of consumers and entrepreneurs. Of course, the judicial reports of these hours, which involve not only the two classic categories of politicians and entrepreneurs but also those of those who should have controlled, certainly do not help the return of a positive climate. Therefore, the response of the Government and Parliament, for their respective competences, must be swift and incisive in order to change a system of contracts, trusts and concessions that is now rotten. We must not, therefore, make mistakes, we must not delay and the reformative tension cannot be reduced. Our parliamentary group would have voted for this measure anyway, as it came from the Government and with the changes and additions made by the Commission, but today our vote is even more convinced because we know that a new package of support for companies is being studied by the Government itself which integrates the measure in the vote. Let us not be discouraged by the deep conviction that the strengthening and greater competitiveness of our productive apparatus is the basis of a positive evolution of society, growth, maintenance and improvement of welfare, well-being and quality of life. Only with the strengthening and greater competitiveness of the enterprise will we achieve these results. I would also like to say here that Italian entrepreneurs are not at all free from criticism: from their own field today some criticisms are recognized (which, indeed, become self-critical) and exhortations are being made to do more for investment, innovation and capitalization. We too late noticed today that there is a growing gap in capitalization between our companies and those of our largest competitor state, the other manufacturing company, the German one. Not only that: the degree of capitalisation of our companies has also fallen compared to the European average. According to the Bank of Italy, in order to be in line with the European average, an overall increase in the capitalization of Italian companies of at least 200 billion and an equal reduction in debts in order to free companies from excessive dependence on bank credit, which today stands at around 65%. The government lets us know that on these issues it will intervene in the next few days, just on the side of the asset strengthening of the enterprise, with different types of participations, including a different tax treatment of the repatriated profits in the enterprise. In addition to cutting the energy bill for small and medium-sized enterprises and tax relief on investment in capital goods, we reaffirm the belief that we must work very hard and for a long time on the capitalization of our companies. I would also like to add another element. This is the third time we have taken action on the commercial debts of the public administration. Today we have learned that we have reached between 60 and 75 billion, compared to the 90 last year, that the average times have fallen by ten days, from 190 to 180 (which are still six months), and that the incidence of the commercial debts of the public administration on GDP, although it has fallen, is still one of the highest in Europe. In this respect, I would like to say that the problem is not reform: the weak point is how to apply it. It has already been pointed out that only half of the implementing measures of the approximately 70 reform laws introduced since November 2011 have actually been defined. Therefore, in conclusion, this decree-law is the first half of a difficult game, but not impossible to win and that needs other measures of this nature. What we expect is that the Government will support, beyond consumption, also the offer, that is, that basically supports the productive base of our country in order to generate wealth and distribute it more equitably. [[Applause from Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u39	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr Vice-Minister, I do not intend to bore you with criticism of the various aspects of this measure, but I would like to say that I have followed it over the years, albeit on another side, as one of the eggheads of liberal democracy in a left-wing strabic party, and so I would like to make another speech with you, because I know that my saying will not change events: the majority will vote in favour and we will vote against it. However, in its place I would be embarrassed to propose such a document because it contradicts what you have always said, Mr Morando. He must know that at the time of the inauguration of the Government I had to ask the President-in-Office of the Council in charge of what type of government he presided over, that is, whether he was head of a liberal government, or socialist, or even social democrat, or, worse still, communist. I asked, in summary, what was the horizon of the political, social and economic values to which that Government intended to refer and consequently how it intended to act, through the legislative measures, in the direction that was most appropriate to the reference values. Of course I did not have an answer and I will not have it today either, because in this House your President-in-Office has come with a certain amount of sloppyness, if not bravado (I still remember one hand in my pocket!), to propose himself as the Head of a Reforming Government that had the intention to characterize its action as a reformer of a State that by now all call redundant and inefficient, bureaucratic and wasteful, producer of continuous records of the increase of the public debt, that in my humble opinion - and I believe also in his opinion, if you could say what he thinks - is the real cause of the social and economic crisis that gripes the Nation. Of course, I pointed out the fundamental contradiction by which he himself, Matteo Renzi, who was the figure of the secretary of the main left-wing party, usually statist and pauperist blackberry, stood in the inappropriate capacity of a liberal reformer of the State. I obviously did not have an answer and therefore I had to and I must take note that the policy that this Government pursues, like the governments that preceded it, even to a certain extent of the Tremontian era and therefore of the center-right, has begun along the confirmation of an economic policy of the statist, constructivist and centralist type in which the State is the master. I do not know how many here have this conviction, but we have an omnipotent and omnipresent state, which is the main protagonist of the economic life of this country and we expect to introduce elements of liberalism and free market within a state that should be radically transformed by the inclusion of a series of parameters of efficiency, productivity, competence, merit and quality of services that we continue to neglect. An eloquent example of this contradiction in terms comes from the present document, which contains the ambitious wording of urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice. A decree that in its contents, from the first to the last of its articles, proposes a series of interventions based on the classic concept of state constructivism, typical of the planned economies (it will agree with me, Mr. Deputy Minister). A measure ranging from tax matters to the rationalization of public expenditure, the purchase of goods and services, the reorganization of ministries, interventions in agriculture, up to the debts of the companies involved and from now on, up to school construction. That is to say a real Zibaldone, which, however, has only one common thread, the common denominator of a state that persists in the affirmation of its power of intervention and continues to add administrative functions and procedures to the already existing Bolse, redundant and farraginous ones. Let me then allow my colleagues who have spoken from the benches here: let us stop this euphoria of social justice! I would like to quote an author who is certainly known to you, Friedrich August von Hayek, Nobel laureate for the economy, who had to say of social justice that it is a real oxymoron: justice is such as it is right, and it does not need attributes and to be corroborated by other adjectives. Mr Hayek warned us that what is right is right in itself and that under the name of social justice, the entrepreneurial state, the manager of the economy and public spending, intervenes to counter the free market which is the only and only expression of economic freedoms in a liberal society. The notion of social justice, Von Hayek said, is devoid of content, because the governmental apparatus is incapable of acting for a specific purpose, since it expresses its will through characteristics of abstractness and generality. It will come out, as our learned master of economics said, that only a few members of society will be favored under certain circumstances (as in the case of the 80 euros, which are given only to some and not to others). Therefore, social justice ends with being the ethics of the tribe: at a given moment there is a social group that is favoured by the state's bestowal and other social groups are damaged by it. This is, of course, disturbing the economic catallax. Let us use this term, Mr President, which indicates the spontaneous order. I wanted to say to my colleague on the left that yesterday he hurled against the invisible hand, my colleague, Mr Moscardelli (who I highly esteem and who is distracted at the moment and does not listen to me), that the famous invisible hand of the State in Italy has never been there; nor can the invisible hand of the economic catallax be accompanied by the State in a direction that is already predefined and predetermined. In this you are a statist and a democratic Catholic; and in this I am a Turtian and a popular Catholic. Having said that, let us return to the liberals of the left, and then to Deputy Minister Morando. You speak of social justice; well, it will result in only a few members of society being favoured, and this will inevitably lead to market disturbance and inequality among citizens. So how fair it was because it was social becomes unfair because the famous redistribution will not affect all social categories (pensioned or other income belonging to other categories). Let it be clear that it is not, as the socialists and the statists say, an aversion to the concept of the social state. We are always accused of being the bad guys and of being against solidarity, but we are for a state that is not limited to promoting development, so that every citizen can achieve equal opportunities and not equal outcomes. This, dear Senator Moscardelli, is the difference. I'm gonna be wondering what this has to do with anything. Well, all this constitutes the pabulum, the ideological imprinting on which we continue to produce these documents with the hope of reversing an economic crisis that is a crisis of the state entrepreneur and of the omnipresent and omnipotent state. With the warm pannicelli of the 80 euro shift to the left and right you will not be able to solve anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, I invite you to conclude your speech. D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech to the critique of the attic mice in the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. D'ANNA (GAL). If you are reformers, do one thing: propose an idea of reform of the state and forget these little things and these zibaldoni, which are worthy of a good garbage. If you're liberal, do it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u42	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, this decree has objectives that it is appropriate and fair to define strategic and that anticipate further structural measures that the Government will have to adopt with the Stability Act for 2015. The Renzi Government has had the courage and has also been able to respond consistently to the country, to the citizens and to the enterprises, in particular to the medium and small ones. Firstly, there is the objective of reducing the tax and contribution pressure on labour, with the allocation of a credit, a bonus, to those who have an income not exceeding 24,000 euros, and the reduction of the IRAP rates. We hope that this intervention can be strengthened by the 2015 Stability Act, extending the audience of beneficiaries to large and single-income families and perhaps also with the adoption of the family quotient. We also share the choice to shift taxation from work to financial income. It is a choice of equity, of social justice, that adapts Italy to other European countries and that helps to ensure that the reduction of the tax wedge contributes to the revival of the economy. Another important point is the legislative clarification of the proposal that the supply of electricity and heat produced from renewable agroforestry sources, for medium and small plants, should be considered as agricultural income production activity. We also appreciate the fact that the Government has clarified, with the reformulation of some of our amending proposals, that there will be no double sacrifice of the Special Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano regarding the financing of the bonus of 80 euros, thus avoiding heavy and unjust negative effects on our regional and provincial budgets. With regard to the provisions of the decree relating to RAI, we thank the Government, in particular Deputy Minister Morando, for the great sensitivity shown towards linguistic minorities. For the territories where German, Ladin, French and Slovenian linguistic minorities are located, the guarantee by law of the RAI headquarters, which continues to operate under financial and accounting autonomy, also because these offices must necessarily act as production centres for transmissions in the language of minorities. In the specific case of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, which to date has already assumed, by means of a convention with RAI, all the charges for transmissions in German and Ladin language, is guaranteed the transparency of expenditure for the approximately 20 million euros per year currently employed, taking into account also the RAI fee paid by the citizens of our Province. In conclusion, we stress that there are no alternatives to this Government, which has worked very well in a particularly difficult situation for the country. The Government, therefore, must move forward and must be supported and supported by all forces. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies will vote for the confidence of the Government and for the approval of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u45	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us start with the title of this urgent decree-law, namely urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice, which already causes us to smile, if not perhaps to weep, and then, even more, by its nickname, i.e. 80 euros decreto: this is a more substantial premise, which makes us understand the true reality of this measure. Each of us is well aware of the memory of those who, starting with the Prime Minister in particular, have spent as few to publicise this tax maneuver. The elections at the end of May were looming and the opportunity to increase or fatten (decides the government which term prefers) the electoral result of its party was too important, we could say indispensable. Obviously the electoral outcome has given reason to those who, after days of announcements, commercials and hammering, have - indeed - muffled the economic recovery of our country with this measure. I repeat "satisfied," because the correct and sure-to-be-shared term is only this. It is now before everyone's eyes that one of the main, perhaps the greatest, disease the country suffers from is the terrifying contraction of both external and internal demand, due to the financial crisis of 2008, followed a short distance from the euro crisis. The main causes of this combined arrangement were the contraction of external demand, largely due to the global crisis, and the contraction of domestic demand, determined in turn by the stringent austerity policies adopted by the various governments. The same austerity policies, it is worth remembering, that today even the supporters of that time are fleeing and contesting. The consequences in our country, to which the recent Government has contributed with foolish maneuvers of increase of the tax, we all know them: collapse of the GDP (today almost below the level of 2008 for ten percentage points) and structural unemployment rate at levels never seen before, as evidenced by many colleagues. Just to remind you, in March 2007 the unemployment rate in Italy was 6%, today 13.6 percent, while that of youth unemployment is 46%. It's data that's impressive. Without forgetting, regarding GDP, that the estimates on the gross domestic product of our country recently spread, speak of a decline of the country, when the government itself - it is worth remembering - within the document of economy and finance, indicated in an optimistic, how impossible, +0.8% the goal of the end of the year. There are no words to comment. The patient Italy is serious, now very serious and the specific dispositions assumed by the current Government, that has set itself the ambitious objective (but unfortunately very far) to raise the country, should be oriented to revitalize the domestic demand, an internal demand strongly burdened by the aggravio VAT to which you, for the umpteenth time, have contributed rather than to fix continuous, chaotic and increasing taxes and taxes. Let us think, for example, of the IMU and the TASI. In the overall reading of the measure, in fact, we cannot fail to consider that the bonus of the one-off 80 euros (it should be recalled, in fact, that it applies only for this fiscal year, that is only for 2014) applies only to certain categories, only up to a predetermined income range and, above all, that this happens a few months after the definition and publication by local authorities of the TASI and IMU rates. A tangle of taxes that confuses an apparent give with a substantial take-off. Moreover, provided that in the coming year's report of income, families do not have to return the sum because in the phase of matching, perhaps, the deductions will no longer be due. The rates of TASI and IMU, in all probability, will be higher than those proposed a few months ago by the local accountants, in the light of the fact that, as you know, this measure, in addition to the bonus of 80 euros, also provides for additional and substantial reductions of transfers to local authorities. They always pay the same, virtuous or not. In summary, the 80 euro credit is also financed by cuts to the municipalities, as well as by other tax maneuvers, which, in the face of lower revenues, will be forced to raise the tax burden on taxpayers in order to recover those resources. The umpteenth example of the fact that municipalities and local authorities must be the gabeliers of the State that is pressing and destroying our country system. Not to mention the IMU on hilly and mountain farmland. Another shameful choice! The rules are being changed and taxation is being increased by subtracting EUR 350 million from this sector for the current financial year. I repeat, it is shameful! This is the reality of this measure. But let's get to the basic point. It no longer matters whether the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group agrees with this clearly deceptive and deceptive provision. We are, of course, against this, assuming that this matters to you and it is clear that you do not care. The point, rather, is to understand how and why there is a government, not elected by anyone, let's remember, if not by a party secretary who for weeks has deceived the entire country promising an economic recovery that is not there, spreading with the left hand of the money and then recovering them with the right hand. The point, gentlemen, is to understand how those who were also President of the Province do not know that the 122 million euros for two years in favour of school construction are undoubtedly acceptable in principle, but they are certainly not usable by those who, like the Provinces themselves, continue to have specific skills on school construction. In this respect, our Group had tabled effective amendments, obviously not accepted because they were tabled by the opposition. The point is to understand how we can expect more VAT receipts when not later than a few months ago, with Decree no. 102 of August 31, 2013, happened on the IMU, the same coverage was adopted that then proved fatally insufficient and forced to review excise duties on fuels. Have you forgotten, or are you already convinced that in September we will follow the same practice? Here, ladies and gentlemen, are the covers, another painful point of this measure: the node of the covers, on which for days we have heard the Prime Minister prying out to report as the technical findings of the Senate, which is so dear to the Premier and which, on the amount of the necessary financial resources to the measure continues to move suspicions, were not concrete, but merely suppositions of the technicians. In the polemic style of the Prime Minister and Government all, an obsessive recourse to denigration continues. And all that can be said against this Government continues to be seen only and solely by you as the intent to denigrate the Government itself: anyone who moves criticism of the Government is pointed to as the bearer of a fanciful personal interest that supports the true reason for dissent. In this case, according to some, the contrary opinion of the senate technicians would be a "vendetta" of the same for the announced as imminent reform of the Senate. This attitude, gentlemen, looks very much like a sort of public denigration, a form of media pillage that offers a scapegoat with which to take it, without taking care of the technical reasons that lead critics to advance doubts. Simply moving the lens takes the attention away from those who actually changed the numbers, or wanted to verify them in a very distorted way. However, we will soon know, gentlemen, that is, within a few months (I am thinking of September), if the critical remarks of the Senate officials were unfounded doubts or if, instead, they were certainties. For our part, however, we express a decidedly negative opinion on this measure, as it certainly does not harm in demagogy and excessive optimism. But the negative judgment is doubly confirmed by the choice of the imposition of a vote of confidence, yet another confidence (to deny what Prime Minister Renzi proclaimed in his hypocritical, I repeat, hypocritical speech of settlement), confidence that we will not of course give. Finally, I would like to give a warning to the Government: it does not relaunch the economy with promises alone, but with concrete, courageous and effective actions. The country awaits them, but it will certainly never have them from you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u48	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us renew with great conviction the confidence of the Government, for at least four reasons. The first refers to a general assessment of the value of political-institutional stability; the second refers to our full adherence to the original contents of this measure, which have been largely confirmed by the relevant parliamentary committees; the third reason also refers to those specific changes that have been introduced by these Commissions on the basis of our initiative; the fourth reason, finally, concerns what will come after the examination and final vote of this measure from the point of view of the development of that government agenda, already marked according to those objectives that we cannot but share and that concern the growth of our society and our economy: demographic growth, economic growth, social growth and work. So let us first of all reaffirm how stability is a value in itself, all the more so in the extraordinary time that we live. It has undoubtedly been reinforced by the European vote and, on the one hand, results - as we have already seen - in lower charges for debt placement which, given the enormous size of the debt, translate into particular evidence in the structure of the state budget: 4 billion less than the peak of 2012 is costing the public debt placement service, not to mention the returns of the ten-year BTPs, passed from that peak of 7.4 to the current 3%; on the other hand, stability translates into a source of greater negotiating capacity within the European Union, where we have every right and duty to demand a shared vision of Europe's potential for growth. It is a Europe in which the crisis is taking on endemic characteristics and which can only reasonably grow if it is supported by a geopolitical, geo-economic vision and the projection of its trade and political relations towards the South and East; it is therefore essential the role of its Mediterranean area, in which we insist and in which large transnational investments supported by the project finance that we have been calling for for for a long time should be carried out. Therefore, useful, fundamental and necessary stability in the internal dimension and in the European dimension. As I said, the decree-law that we are examining has been shared by us, first of all at the time of its own drafting, as part of the majority and of the Government; it has been shared because it is an expression of that liberal-popular direction of march which is the reason for our participation in this Government and in this majority. In our view, society grows if freed from the weight of public expenditure, taxation and regulatory constraints. We are pleased today that there is a broad sharing between political areas until yesterday in opposition to the relationship between state and society in the sense that we obviously hope and that we could synthesize in the formula: less state, more society. Already in the definition of that text in the seat of government we wanted to associate families and businesses, as recipients of tax return measures: do you remember the initiative of the New Right Center for there to be also that linear reduction of 10% of IRAP supported by one, in this case justified, greater tax pressure on financial assets? We are convinced that at the same time we must free the vitality of families from the point of view of their ability both to procreate and to consume, and the vitality of enterprises. I am talking about vitality in the sense of the new creation of enterprises, their capacity to expand, to generate wealth and to assume. Hence our insistence on overcoming the IRAP, which has resulted, also in the Commission's examination, in a call for the area of exemption of this unfair tax to be extended. With satisfaction we finally accepted the proposal that the government came to us to identify itself in the decrees delegated in fiscal matter of which I will shortly further say, the seat in which to expand the area of small VAT consignments not called to pay this tax: in fact, it will change the definition of "stable organization" which is the prerequisite for a VAT number of a professional or micro-entrepreneur having to pay the IRAP. In the same way, we are satisfied with the way in which the other point we wanted to make with an emblematic amendment was also addressed: I am referring to the issue of large families. Large families cannot fail to be a fundamental parameter in the policy of tax return. Much more taxation must recognize the social value of the family in which there are more dependent children and, therefore, the law of stability, which will have the task of structuralizing the measures that we approve here only in economic terms (i.e. referred to in the current year), will be the seat, by law, by programmatic norm that no one will be able to evade, to introduce that family factor that has long been invoked and that is not yet realized. So let us come to the government agenda, which is what awaits us for the next few weeks, thanks also to the adoption of this measure. As I mentioned earlier, it consists primarily of the combination of the law of stability and the tax decrees, a combination that is essential to make structural, as the European Union asks us, our ability to reduce the weight of the state, on the one hand, and to free the vitality of society and the economy, on the other. The two measures will be together, as our Deputy Minister, Mr Casero, said yesterday, because they will allow us to redesign also the so-called tax expenses, so that the final balance consists in a significant reduction in the tax burden on the family, property and business. In this regard, we cannot fail to call on the Government once again to act on local authorities, even in terms of moral suasion, by convening their own association, so that they do not abuse the power of taxation on the house and, Mr. representative of the Government, so that this happens also thanks to the publication of those standard needs, which our Group so much wanted at the time when the law on fiscal federalism was discussed and approved; in fact, they constitute a transparent parameter of good administrative management, whose inefficiency must never be discharged without limits on natural and legal persons in terms of greater tax pressure. The law of stability and the tax decrees are also an extraordinary opportunity to change the relationship between taxpayer and financial administration in the sign of that mutual loyalty that unfortunately is not yet acquired today. The ambitious reform of the state, from its democratic institutions to public administrations, is also part of our agenda. In this area, our commitment will be strong, so that ours is a truly governing democracy and that our state really costs less and functions more. Not to mention - and I am beginning to conclude - the reform of the labour market, the reform that from all those who observe us from outside (from Washington to the International Monetary Fund, to the seat of the European Union in Brussels) is considered as the measure of our ability to exit from the ideological twentieth century and to show that we are able to have a simple, certain and European regulation, that encourages the propensity to assume and that leads us outside of that trap atavica, that has always led Italy to be a country characterized by low wages, low employment and low labour productivity, although it has been - or perhaps just because it has been - the most trade unionized country in the West. I conclude with a consideration of the future of the moderate and liberal-popular political area, which is recognised in the first European political family. There is so much discussion these days, and rightly so, in the light of the electoral outcome, of the divisions that have occurred within this area. I would just like to make one simple point today: I am convinced that this area will have political success insofar as this difficult period of government, in the time of the great crisis, will bring results for the common good. Results will be produced for the common good insofar as, as I have repeatedly said, they will be in the sign of the liberation of the vitality of society and of the economy, i.e. through liberal reforms. The more this government, paradoxically, will succeed in liberal, or rather liberal-popular, reforms, as they are capable of freeing our popular and family capitalism, the more the political area that traditionally embodies these aspirations will have a perspective. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u51	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, Deputy Minister Morando, I will start from afar today (hoping not to bore Deputy Minister Morando), i.e. from a technical report in October, that of the decree canceling the first instalment of the IMU, in which it was said that the text had some criticality and that the State Accounting asked for its deletion, inviting the IMU to reinsert in the first useful decree (which was then done, because the IMU was actually deleted, but now we have the TASI, with everything that follows). Here the concern is the same, but we do not express it for "gufare," even if yesterday Deputy Minister Morando said that some have fun doing it: it is true that there is the cut of the IRAP and that these 80 euros have been paid, probably helping in part the revival of the economy, because the decree was made also for this; it is also true, however, that everything is postponed to the end of the year, with the law of stability, regarding the cover. What, then, causes us great concern? We are going to intervene on an ongoing exercise, so it has not yet been specified where we will go to intervene with these cuts (which will eventually be horizontal), so we do not know if the cut expenses had already been committed and if you can therefore really cut. This is a great concern of ours, because not only is it not known whether the end of the year's stability law will succeed in making it structural, but it is not even known whether it will really cover the money that has already been given to people. This is a great concern, not a 'gufata', which we have already said repeatedly in the Commission (and I apologise therefore if I repeat it again here, again to the Deputy Minister who bears us). How were we trying to get out of this? In the decree we proposed to include the income of citizenship, not because we are fixed with this income, but because the real problem at this time, in our opinion, is the redistribution of wealth. This is also a speech that we have already addressed in the Commission with the Deputy Minister: the redistribution of wealth is the only thing that really can revive the economy, it is useless to give a little content to people who already have a job, although they are certainly helped by those 80 euros, if then we do not help all the others that instead cannot increase consumption - and therefore re-launch the economy - because they do not even have a job, and therefore a salary. This is a recommendation that Europe also makes to us, asking us to move the tax burden towards consumption and real estate. Looking together at the coverage of our amendment on citizenship income, this was done: by shifting this tax burden, then we would raise the economy and really help the entire Italian population, not just a band, including the categories of pensioners and exodates, as well as all those situations that are still waiting for a solution, which the Government has not found. We appreciate that the Deputy Minister has taken note of the need to make the provision on citizenship income: according to him, it will probably be taken into consideration by the end of the year, but we realize that people outside can no longer wait and there is no time to wait until the end of the year. Another major concern raised by this decree, which is the subject of a recommendation from Europe, is corruption: there is a whole section in the text concerning tax evasion, which has not been clarified, but nothing has been done with regard to corruption. The discussion of the decree is even postponed by another month: after everything that has happened in recent times, we do not seem to fail to shed light on and to draw attention to this very element to the benefit of the revival of the economy, when Europe also tells us that, focusing attention on corruption, we could actually relaunch the economy and everything that concerns... I apologize, but I can't think of the floor, because the Deputy Minister distracts me. [[Laughter]] Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Is this my fault, too, like everything? BULGARRELLI (M5S). It's always your fault, Mr. Deputy Minister, you know that. However, I said that in this way the economy could be revived and all that concerns procurement. What else is inside this decree? In it we find the payment of debts of the public administration. This is also a very important thing, which could revive the economy, but it is also done in an abnormal way. In the meantime, we do not yet know - not just us but all of us have been waiting to know for some time - what is the full stock of public administration debt. It has not yet been understood whether the money already released has really gone to pay the people who had a credit or whether the State has simply passed to the Regions, but then not been given to those who actually had to benefit from it. Now, to do this, what do we do? We increase public debt, we go to issue government bonds by 20 billion, and that's fine, but to a certain extent. The only chance that Italy really had - in our opinion - to relaunch the country in a global way was to ask for a derogation from Europe, which you did with the DEF. However - in my opinion - you have underused this derogation and, since it will be our only chance, because I do not believe that Europe will give us the opportunity to come back with a derogation on these issues, we do not understand why you did not use it above all to resett those situations that are always adhered to in an emergency. What am I talking about? I'm talking about hydrogeological failure. If we start from the point of view of prevention and not of emergency, we can make a great spending review. It is true that the initial investment to fix all critical situations is of significant scope, but at a later point you will be able to benefit from a large saving, because the emergency costs us more and more of the prevention. This would have been a great spending review and would have absolutely helped the revival of the economy: since there is so much to work on the hydrogeological disaster, you would have given a lot of work to people and, once the territory was reset, it could really have revived the tourism. But with a really devastated territory, as it is, how do we think to attract tourism? In my own area, the Apennines, it is impossible to revive tourism: every 100 meters there is a landslide and everything that the earthquake has destroyed has not yet been rebuilt. That's impossible. Until we make a serious investment in the territory, we will not be able to do so on tourism; and the only way we had to ask for a derogation from Europe and use it to fix the situation. On the contrary, you have asked for a derogation to make payments, but in the end it was said in the DEF that 13 billion would be paid, while now I think we are talking about 5 billion. There are 8 and a half, but then in the opinion given today in the 5th Commission we talk about 5, and so I would stay on the 5 and not on the 8 and a half. Then I ask you: what do we do after this measure? In the process of drafting the law of stability we will realize that money is no longer enough and that you are pulling the same blanket to cover more things: and then what will we do? I shall conclude my speech with the safeguard clause. Again in this decree there is a safeguard clause, which, however, contradicts what you are doing, and this is another thing that I have asked you to hear from the Commission. You are now thinking of making a decree to lower the costs of electricity, but there is a safeguard clause in that which, on 30 September this year, will increase the excise duty on electricity. Again, the dog bites its tail. Yesterday you, Mr. Deputy Minister, spoke of foresight and design and said that you were rewarded because you see Italy's long-term project. It seems to me, first of all, that you do not see it in the long term and that the things you do are always contradictory to each other. That is one of the reasons why we will of course vote no to trust. There is absolutely no design, and what you are doing does not fix situations, because you always use the usual blanket to cover more things, but when we arrive at the end of the year, it will always be the same, that is, people outside this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u54	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, it must be acknowledged that this measure was a masterpiece. The objective of determining a special effect for the European elections on 25 May and of reserving after elections, for the next few months, the bitter surprises that await the Italians has been fully achieved, indeed we can say that it has been a success. The choice to distribute 80 euros to some millions of citizens with an income from 8,000 to 24,000 euros a few days after the vote was a brilliant, highly appreciated find, which made electorally very good and that those who enjoy writing can lead as an example from the manual of politics. However, Mr Vice-Minister, I do not think this was a responsible choice. Putting in place a measure like this, an electoral spot only for some leaves you bewildered. Our country needs a tax reform that affects everyone, fair, structural, reduction of the tax burden, as the Court of Auditors says, and that also takes into account the family burdens, as we have long supported. Moreover, the measure has a cover still uncertain, there are no resources to cover all eight months, let alone for next year, when to guarantee the reduction of the deficit and the bonus serve, as the Bank of Italy says, more than 14,3 billion. The elections have passed, however, and the government immediately takes up with two hands what it has granted to some. In this month for some, in October for others, is expected the payment of the TASI, the new tax on the replacement buildings of the IMU. The Bank of Italy estimates that the levy on the first houses will increase by 60 percent compared to 2013, assuming the rate of 2.5 per thousand. But there will be worse, because 2.5 per thousand will be the choice that few municipalities, the most thrifty, will make, because the majority will also apply the addition of 0.8 per thousand. In fact, the mayor of Bologna Merola, in the margins of the unified conference gathered for the opinion on the decree, said that the cuts to local authorities for a billion planned for 2014 are unsustainable. So, whoever you mean means. But there is not only this for taxpayers in this decree: there is an increase to 26% of the levy on current account or deposit savings; an increase in the cost of issuing a passport; a tax on tobacco; a tax on supplementary insurance; excise duties on fuels in the event of a lack of increase in VAT revenue in addition to that already triggered; there is the introduction of a tax for citizens; a reduction in preferential postal tariff regimes. A real slaughter suffers from agriculture, perhaps targeted because it is the only sector in which GDP holds: taxation of agricultural income; IMU on land in hill and mountain areas; taxation of energy-selling farmers; increase in excise duties on agricultural diesel. Mr. Deputy Minister, yesterday ISTAT announced the unemployment figures: it looks like a war bulletin. I want to remember the figures for the first quarter of 2014 (some have already done so, but I think it is worth remembering): the unemployment rate reached 13.6 percent, an increase of 0.8 percentage points compared to the same period last year. It is a historic peak, that is the highest value of the quarterly series played in 1977; the unemployment rate of young people between 15 and 24 years has risen to 46 percent and this is also a historical maximum: in 2011 it was 29 percent; in the first quarter of 2014, the number of unemployed people is close to 3.5 million, an increase of 212,000 units on an annual basis; the employed are decreasing in April: 68,000 units less, one 0.3% less than the previous month and one 0.8% less on an annual basis; the discouraged, i.e. the people who want to work but do not seek employment because they feel they no longer find it, have risen to 1 million and 948,000 units on an annual basis, with an increase of 16.5 percent; the children between 15 and 29 years who do not work and do not study have climbed to 1 million and 442,000 units and have grown by 113,000 in the last year; also the precarious, Mr. Deputy Minister, are in decrease, 80,000 units in one year: there is not even a job that is precary, not even to give a tear of 300 euros to the month. And let us not talk about the figures for the Mezzogiorno, which are even more serious. Compared to this situation, the choice to distribute EUR 80 was not the best. I believe that it would have been better to spend these resources to restart growth or to help those who do not have and do not find work and do not know where to bang their heads, or, again, to help large families or single income with dependent children. These resources could also be used to elevate the no tax area. I think, first of all, you should have thought of those 5 and a half million people who don't know how to survive. It is offensive to them to say that we may be dealing with it next year. I turn to the friends of the NCD Group: Blessed are you who are happy for this! Probably and cynically you have thought that children do not vote, and for some time they have not voted even the unemployed, discouraged in the search for work. Better please those who vote and have them vote for you. The 10% reduction in IRAP is a shared but completely insufficient measure to reverse this trend: IRAP must be abolished completely. The situation, Mr. Deputy Minister, requires extraordinary measures to mitigate and combat this tragedy. Relaunching employment depends on many factors: simplification, taxation, competitiveness, the ability to finance investments and worthwhile projects, depends on credit. In this measure there is no measure in relation to all this, there are only worsening measures. In order to promote growth, resources are needed. For example, the taxation of the Bank of Italy's shares with banks with a levy of almost 6 billion will lead to a contraction in the available liquidity and the further closure of the credit taps by the banks. Mr Deputy Minister, it had been promised that 2014 would be the year of the turning point of the Italian economy, as it was due to be in 2013 and before 2012, with GDP growing, the reduction of the unemployed, the decline of the deficit and the reduction of the public debt. On the other hand, the European Commission had to grant Italy an extra year to respect the rule of balance. But it also recommended immediate intervention on the public accounts to ensure compliance with the debt reduction commitment. How will you ensure budgetary objectives in the coming months? We really don't know. You do the exact opposite of what the country needs, of what many people try to suggest. The president of Confindustria at the general meeting said that it was necessary to build a new Italy and give priority to growth and work. But don't you see what's going on? 120,000 companies closed in recent years with less than 25 percent of Italian industrial production and relegation to ninth place in the ranking of the most industrialized countries in the world. You have been able, in these three years, only to accumulate disasters. Our country needs to restart growth, on the one hand, and, on the other, cut unproductive spending. Your measures, on the other hand, block growth (GDP minus 0.1 percent in the first three months of 2014) and reduce revenues, despite the continuous increase in rates: direct taxes in January-March 2014 decreased by 917 million euros compared to the first quarter of the previous year and the trend will continue in the coming months. The ambitious reductions in expenditure are all to be achieved, the only one that has succeeded was that of investment. Meanwhile, from November 2011 to March 2014, in the space of time of the Monti and Letta Governments, the public debt grew by over 200 billion and continues to rise. At this rate you will beat every record of growth in public debt and bring Italy to default. Unfortunately, chatter, announcements, communications and slides are not enough to solve the problems: concrete and adequate measures are needed. Those who rule cannot live only by cleverness, for sooner or later there is reckoning. Be careful that after the success of May the defeat can come. If you don't believe us, ask Hollande, she knows something about it. For these reasons, our vote can only be of absolute opposition to the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u55	On the thirteenth anniversary of the Arma dei Carabinieri, we greet the members of the Carabinieri Association of Calolziocorte, in the province of Lecco, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u58	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the measure we are debating today represents for the Democratic Party and also for the majority of the Government a fundamental part in the process of economic and institutional reforms that the Renzi Government has begun in recent months. It is a policy that confronts the difficulties, the heaviness of the crisis, unemployment, unfortunately still increasing, with the many sufferings of Italian families; a policy that recognizes the weight of the sacrifices of recent years, which aims to make the recovery expected for 2014, but unfortunately still fragile and discontinuous, and that therefore decides to return the purchasing power that in recent years has unfortunately been strongly cut off. This is the meaning of the bonus: a real reform project, because it redistributes income to citizens through a substantial recovery of resources from public spending, starting from inefficiencies, waste and privileges that still exist in the public system. What we propose to the country with the decree-law that took the name of journalistic bonus IRPEF is a project of social equity: we cut unproductive expenditure, often opaque, to support the income of those who struggle to reach the end of the month, to restart domestic demand, consumption, to reduce the tax burden on companies. These are concrete measures, which respond exactly to the dramatic data we saw in the first quarter of 2014 and which together we must try to deal with. To those who have accused us in these days of not finding the covers, of almsgiving, of giving an electoral tip, up to even raving of the hypothesis of electoral concussion, I would serenely point out that the Italians have expressed themselves and have understood; they understood that today, before and above any controversy pre and post electoral, the Government has taken a path, certainly very difficult, but in the right direction. Furthermore, we want to ensure that the tax bonus is not just a surrogate: it's more, it's a concrete fact. Try to ask, you who, like those who have spoken today and like us, have so much at heart the fate of people, to a person who takes 9,000 euros a year (less than 1,000 euros a month), if 80 euros are a concrete fact or a promise. Try asking these 11 million Italians. Of course, this tax bonus does not exhaust the need for its expansion, we are aware of it: we know that it must be made structural in the course of 2015; we know that it must be extended starting, as we wrote in the decree-law, from single-income families with dependent children pensioners with lower pensions, to the self-employment of VAT consignments, to the incapients and to the middle-low sections of self-employment. It is a commitment that the Government has already formally undertaken and that will be implemented in the next law of stability. We know and we will. I would also like to give some thought to the following. The choice to finance this development intervention on domestic demand, for businesses, for consumption and for incomes is supported by another choice, just as courageous: that of reducing Italian public spending, to find these resources but also to ensure that our public machine is more sober, more effective and transparent. This is why we chose not the easy way of linear cuts, but a way of structural containment of expenses, which passes through the unique purchasing plants, the CONSIP and the entry into the standard cost regime. A project to review spending that will continue with greater intensity in 2015 for 17 billion and in 2016 for 32 billion, on which we really ask the commitment of the whole Parliament to team up, to win this battle in the interests of the whole country. What we are proposing is a public administration that costs less and that, at the same time, works better and is closer to the citizens. A public administration less permeable to corruption (and we say so with all the seriousness and sadness of these days), thanks to standard procedures, with a strong intervention on transparency, which first passes through the massive use of the Network for the networking of all the expenses of the individual administrations. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group show fake notes bearing the inscription "80 euros."]] On corruption, in these days so difficult for the terrible affair of the MOSE, I believe we must, on the one hand, reaffirm the need for each of us to rediscover the moral reasons that are the foundation of a good policy and, on the other hand, go beyond emotional reactions, to strongly reaffirm to the Government and Parliament that we must quickly conclude here in the Senate the examination of those legislative measures aimed at making the fight against all forms of corruption ever more stringent. We have to do this to answer the sad facts with our heads up that we are living. Good administration also means paying debts to businesses and doing so in certain times. In the decree under consideration this is a fundamental part, with legislative innovations that, beyond any delay that unfortunately there has been, tend to build conditions so that finally in 2015 this story has concluded. In this regard, also as Commissions we have ensured a constant monitoring, so that there is the overcoming of the packages of bottle and the possibility to use profitably all the resources allocated to bring to completion by 2014 a situation so abnormal, pathological and so important to resolve. Attention to small and medium-sized enterprises and recognition of their indispensable value for the Italian recovery lies in the measure of the structural cut of 10% of IRAP. A significant economic intervention that has found cover in the context of the increase in the rates on the financial annuities: a choice the latter much criticized by the oppositions but that we claim as redistribution of the tax burden on the annuities in order to support the real economy. A choice of economic policy. Of course, we are the first to know that the cost of the tax burden on companies has become no longer sustainable and that we must adopt other acts besides these, but we must also emphasize that finally, after so many words, the cut of the IRAP is now a concrete fact and we know that it will be strengthened in 2015. On this point, linking us to Europe, we have placed this decree within a policy that is also confronted with the recent observations of the European Union, which continues on the path of reducing and zeroing debt in the coming years, in order to redesign, with the implementation of the tax delegation, a new simplified and more effective taxation to support work, businesses and families. A policy that will ask in Europe to support the policies of overcoming the essential debt measures to promote investment, taking them out of the Stability Pact, and to improve credit to businesses. The Commission has made many improvements to the decree, which are now contained in the maxi amendment. I want to emphasise in particular the flexibility of the 5% cut, with particular attention to that part of spending on welfare services in schools, canteens and people's services, which are particularly important. In conclusion, Mr President, the Group of the Democratic Party will vote for the government's confidence to approve this decree-law, in the conviction that, although a single measure is not and will never be exhaustive of the many economic difficulties that affect the country today, however, we are sure that this government's provision can represent a reversal of course, the beginning of a path that will always keep together growth and social equity, which offers a challenging path to start a country exhausted by the crisis, and that, in our opinion, will bring back founded reasons of hope for a future that we all want to be better. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u59	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u60	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 66 of 24 April 2014, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Sacconi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Sacconi. I say that some senators have asked, for reasons which are hopefully valid, as they have been represented, to anticipate their vote. These needs will of course be assessed by the Presidency. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Maria Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Carini, Casini, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Compagnia, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Monte, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Findino, Finsore, Forghiglio, Fornaro, Gianfano Fabbri, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsorni, Finsorni, Fincorigoni, Forni, Fornizio, Fornarizio, Fornarizio Giusero, Gio, Gio, Gio The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bruno, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolino, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucklisia Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lizzini, Lyro, Lyrozzi, Lyrozzi, Lizzo, Lypozzi, Lypozzi, Lypozzi, Malangzano, Falanga, Fas, Mando, Fas, Fasano, Fasano, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzoni, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fazzone, Martelli, Mars, Martelli, Mars, Mars. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 66 of 24 April 2014, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 272 Senators voting 271 Majority 136 Favorables 159 Contrari 112]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 66. (at 13.39 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u63	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, in recent weeks there has been a debate on the level of remuneration of apical positions in public and private bodies. In a situation of economic crisis, the growing gap between the remuneration of the company's top management and those of employees and workers in companies, whether public or private, strikes as an unbearable form of injustice. In the past we have had positive examples in this regard: I am referring to Adriano Olivetti who, in the sixties, imposed and imposed a relationship between one to ten of the highest corporate salary and the lowest, but similar relationships existed, at the time, also for other companies, such as FIAT di Valletta. Even recently the issue has been imposed and the current Government has set a limit on the salaries of public managers. This measure has the merit of placing a certain limit on salaries and liquidations that were now out of control and represented a form of social injustice promoted by the State itself. Unfortunately, these limits are not linked to meritorious criteria. I wonder, however, whether these salaries (often made up not only of real salaries but also of a number of benefits) are so high that they are justifiable and acceptable in the private sector. I wonder why private companies in crisis situations, as is happening in recent years, often access forms of public aid, in the various forms of solidarity contracts, extraordinary earnings fund, mobility allowance and so on, which are paid despite the top management maintaining very high wages and out of control. In other cases, such as banks, the link between public aid and private gain is less clear, but it exists, and cases of millionaire liquidations are a constant Italian, regardless of any meritorious consideration. An example for all: despite the continuous reduction of the salaries of the employees of the banking group Intesa-San Paolo, the former CEO Enrico Cucchiani has received a coupon of more than 4 million euros that, added to other items, produce a total of more than 6 million euros. This figure has been paid despite the presence of not brilliant company results. In conclusion, I should now like to pay attention to this situation. I would point out that I do not have a solution, but I urge the legislator and the Government to intervene, perhaps initially through forms of moral suasion, in order to limit to a reasonable value the salaries of the top private companies that have a strong bond - I do not know how better to define it - with the public. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u66	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to inform the House that Order 6 of 2014 of the Prefect of Oristano sets up a shooting range at Lake Omodeo, a lake located in the centre of Sardinia and protected. In this regard, we will put a question to the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, because the aforementioned order of the Prefect of Oristano is illegitimate because a body of the State has no power to delete other laws, let alone to derogate from them. It is a measure of eviction from the lake area in order to endanger a natural habitat approved by the Region and under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. I would also like to remind you that Sardinia is the most militarized island in the world, with 35,000 hectares of military servitude, so there is no shortage of areas subject to military servitude, nor of the places where military exercises can be carried out. I would therefore ask the House, and then ask the Minister, to take immediate action to prevent this place from becoming a military polygon. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-256.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.44 p.m.
