ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u8	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I would like to ask the meaning of the vote against the Minutes by my colleagues in the Five Star Movement Group. If it is a false accusation against the editors of the report itself, it would be good if they said what was not properly recorded; otherwise, theirs is a meaningless act. I therefore believe that it would be a burden for them to clarify the meaning of this vote against. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and the Senators Maran and Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u11	The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, decided that, as a follow-up to the discussion of the draft law on the political-mafia electoral exchange, at today's afternoon sitting, until 8.30 p.m., the amendments and articles will be examined, with the final explanations of vote scheduled for tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. In the single session of Thursday, April 17, together with the examination of the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance, the Government will make communications on the report referred to in Article 6 of the Law 24 December 2012, n. 243. The resolution will have to be adopted by an absolute majority, in accordance with the above rule. For resolutions on the DEF, the procedure referred to in Article 125- bis, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure will be followed. The timetable for the general discussion was allocated - in a non-pro rata manner, taking into account transfers agreed between the Groups - for a total of two hours. Explanations of vote will take place from 12.30 a.m. At 16, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport will answer questions about strategic infrastructure interventions and initiatives concerning air and maritime transport. The Conference of Leaders decided, by a majority, that Tuesday 22 April should be reserved for the work of the Commissions, in particular the 1st Commission for the examination of draft constitutional reform laws. At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday 23 April the call for the secret ballot will be made by means of ballots of a Senator Secretary in place of Senator Pizzetti, who joined the Government. The ballot boxes will remain open until 12 noon. Finally, the schedule of the week from 13 to 15 May is supplemented by the examination of the decree-law laying down measures for the smooth running of the school service. The other topics set out in the timetable remain firm.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u14	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, with reference to the timetable set at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning for the start of explanations of vote on the measure relating to Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, I would just like to point out that, as agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, if today's work were to be concluded before the stage of explanation of the amendments was completed, it will be possible to finish this last morning, before the beginning of the explanations of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is up to the President's prudent appreciation to allow it, if need be, and we will not fail to give a voice to those who ask for it. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, we are counting with confidence on these assurances.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law n. 948-B, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Burtone and others, Vendola and others, Francesco Sanna and others, Micillo and others, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u16	Mr President, it is clearly a sign of the willingness of the members of my Group to present each amendment. If I may suggest a way of regulating the work, since every amendment of the 5 Star Movement has been signed by the entire Group, I would ask you, please, to call an amendment by amendment, so that the Senator who already knows what amending proposal to present may take the floor from time to time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u17	Since the illustration phase has already run out, this is the mode: if they all want to speak, I can call in alphabetical order the members of the Group one by one.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u18	BUCCARELLA (M5S). All right, Mr President, I think we can proceed in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Castaldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u19	Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 1,86, and I am speaking on an appeal, which is not mine, but by the assistant prosecutor of Palermo Vittorio Teresi. This appeal is not addressed to the representatives of the institutions to ask, as we always do, to cut off ties with the mafia, but it is addressed to the summits of Our Cosa: cut off ties with your politicians of reference; you are flooded with life sentences and they always get away with it, get rich and are all free. That's what Palermo's assistant prosecutor said. Amendment 1.86 aims to increase the financial penalties to be allocated to the Fund for victims of the Mafia. A very simple amendment. Add to the previous quote a brief quote from Don Ciotti: "Today a gap is needed more than ever, social policies are needed. (...) The confiscation and social use of mafia assets must be strengthened. So it is also important to increase the penalty penalty. He even quotes the Pope (many of you profess to be Catholics): "Change life, be converted, stop in doing evil. We pray for you. I ask on your knees and for your good, this life that you live now will not give you pleasure, will not give you joy, will not give you happiness. Power and money you have now, dirty business and mafia crimes you won't be able to take them to the other side. Be converted. And today, by voting on this amendment, it can be done. Paolo Borsellino said that the mafia and politics are two powers that live in the same territory: either they wage war or they agree. Today is the right time to avoid getting along. We need to wage war, what we are trying to do in this House democratically, civilly. We are still close to elections, which are very important. Let us therefore avoid that politics needs the Mafia: Let's not do this. The 416-b is very important, and I am still thinking very, very carefully. The Democratic Party had voted on these changes, it had found a majority with us in this branch of Parliament. Then, in the House, in a flash this majority disappeared, so, the day after someone, who is no longer in here, went to visit someone else, who is a little bit more up there. The Association victims of the massacre of Via dei Georgofili, in the person of its president Giovanna Maggiani Chelli, says that since 1993 there has been a sort of reorganization of the balance to the sound of laws promulgated in favor of criminal associations. I'll finish. Let's try today to start reversing the course. We make a majority of honest people in this Senate. It's possible. Keep your back straight. You have an honest stick to lean on, and it's called citizens in Parliament, it's called the Five Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u20	I now call Senator Molinari. Colleagues, I'll explain what order I'm going to follow. I will first call the Group's Vice Presidents, after which I will continue in alphabetical order, unless the Parent Company wants to intervene first, in which case it always has the option.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u21	Mr President, I am speaking as a mere senator because I am no longer Vice-President of the Group. I would like to speak on some of the amendments that have been tabled to the draft law before us in order to try to eliminate those vulnus which have emerged after further intervention by the House; in particular, I refer to amendments 1,55, 1.25 and 1.26. As we know, the draft law under consideration sought to make the rule of Article 416-b of the penal code applicable seriously because, as it had been built at the time (remember that it was born in 1992), consisting of the political-mafia exchange in the sole provision of money by the politician who buys votes from organized crime, was in fact unusable. In fact, we know from the statistics that only three trials have come to a final judgment in all. After several passages between the two branches of Parliament, in which even the Senate has seen us among the protagonists, it had taken account of these difficulties by introducing the concept of "other utility" preceded by the non-secondary adverb "whatever," in order to extend the case to conducts not only attributable to a mere monetary quantification; moreover, the introduction, also non-secondary, of the concept of "made available" has been made, which, as Dr. Alessandro Milita reminded us, the pm of the delicate process that concerns an exponent who has been in this Parliament, that is Cosentino, is typical of the mafia and criminal language and is symptomatic of the contiguience to the societas sceleris. He highlights in an interview that he released as in the text fired by the House is a "damn" the elimination of the reference to the "disponibility" of the politician towards the mobster. Therefore, the text that was fired by the House, as my colleagues in the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have already and better denounced in the debate last week, is the result of a compromise that has been lost. I am sorry to say that in front of you, Mr President, that you are a witness to the struggle against the Mafia. We had arrived at a good text in the Senate, where a powerful weapon had been made available, and then for the compromise, typical mechanism of this strange policy that has governed us and continues to govern us, we cannot find an agreement even in such a fundamental battle. The amendments that I am about to put forward seek to remedy another of the important problems, in addition to the problem of the missing adverb in relation to making available, i.e. the relief of penalties, which is also scandalous. I am referring to the fact that I have returned the penalties from seven to twelve years to four to ten. All you had to do was leave your pains as they are today. We know that, as a justification, we have tried to recall the famous principle of proportionality, that is to say, that the penalty must be proportionate to the crime. This is a great constitutional principle of a general nature, if not even a principle of supra-constitutional rank, which is limited to all public authorities, from tax law to administrative law, to criminal law and police law. However, it is recalling this principle that we want to make believe that with the amendment made, that is, with the least penalty to be suffered by the politician who sold himself, we have been respectful of constitutional dictates: nothing more false! Colleagues, although it is true that by constant orientation on the point the Consulta considers censorable asymmetries unreasonable punitive between cases substantially comparable, nevertheless, also in the recent judgments of 23 March 2012, n. 68, and 31 May 2012, n. 134, the argumentative paradigm used highlights its jubilability only in the prism of reasonableness-equality, that is, with a direct reference to Article 3 of the Constitution, because the penalty is closely connected to the educational purpose that it must have. In this light, therefore, it has been stated on several occasions by the Constitutional Court itself that the principle of equality, as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, requires that the penalty be proportionate to the disvalue of the unlawful fact committed, so that the sanctioning system fulfils, at the same time, the function of social defence and that of individual positions. In fact, a penalty that does not conform to proportion nullifies, already at the level of abstract legislative forecast, the reeducational purpose of the sentence, which, where disproportionate, will be fatally felt as unjust by the condemned and, above all, by the society will be considered useless [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u22	Please, Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u23	MOLINARI (M5S). Precisely for this reason, the Court has always reiterated, in its various interventions on these matters, as not only the selection of punishable conduct, i.e. the choice of goods/interests/values to be protected and the same techniques of protection, but also the commeasurement of sanctions is a matter entrusted to the discretion of the legislator, as it is typically political appreciations. Colleagues, "typically political appreciation" means that it is returned entirely to Parliament, that is to say to the legislator to establish the proportionality of the sentence on the basis of the good that we want to protect and here the good that we want to protect is the founding good of democracy, it is the freedom of vote and a politician who sells is no less than a mobster! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Orellana.]] You have to explain, with a vote that will not accept at least one amendment that we are proposing to raise the penalties to a value that is far greater than that of the mobster, because a politician who sells the vote is punished with a lower penalty than that imposed on a mobster. It will be to the Italian people that you will have to answer! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u24	I call Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u25	Mr President, I will present the amendments 1.33, 1.41 and 1.46. [[Brusio.]] I got my voice back, so if you want, I can raise my voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u26	You're welcome, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u27	AIROLA (M5S). As I said, they are all amendments aimed at increasing the years of punishment for corrupt politicians who buy votes or exchange other benefits with the mobsters. Let us start by clarifying - because perhaps even the citizens who follow us do not have it clearly - that 416-b is a rule that serves to cover a lack and go to punish the politician who exchanges with a mafia money or other utility in exchange for votes and support, and we are here today precisely to discuss this rule. In general discussion I have already made my reflection on the political issue; I will now talk about the technical issue. For this type of exchange with the Mafia, some politicians have been convicted, but they have been convicted for external competition in Mafia association, according to a jurisprudential interpretation that unites Article 110, on the competition of persons in the crime, with Article 416- bis, on the crime of Mafia association, of the penal code. From the combined arrangement of these articles comes a sentence from seven to twelve years. We therefore wonder why, in view of a legal interpretation applied by the judges to date, we should now reduce the sentence to four years in the minimum and to ten years in the maximum. Especially in view of the fact that, for certain abbreviated rituals that may require the sentenced person and for the recent rules that we have voted, being sentenced to four years basically means not going to jail, because you can lower the penalty by a third and have further discounts staying out of prison or, going to jail, you can have additional discounts, because we have also voted for rules to do so. So, the question is, why do we have to halve the sentence? Why give this to a politician who is guilty of a horrendous crime? Let us remember that the mafioso has power and exercises his power precisely thanks to his relations with civil society, with the institutions and with politicians: without this connection the mafioso is powerless, he can only act in other ways, which are widely punished. So it sounds very strange to us that we have to lower the penalty, since this text had discharged him from the Senate with a proper penalty, and with the approval of the associations, especially of Libera. I am also referring to the other amendments, specifically Amendments Nos 1,33 and 1,46, which aim at a further increase in the sentence, starting even for twelve years and reaching up to twenty. Why do we imagine such a harsh punishment? First, because it is a very serious crime, and the Italian culture is imbued with this relationship between politics and mafia: Italian history is unfortunately a continuous history of relationships and intertwines in this sense. Not only that, if we go to see the future on the site of Reparte, it seems that currently it would have accepted also the hypothesis of a reduction of the sentence. Actually, that's not true, because on the site we say: We now ask that the government intervene as soon as possible for a wider remodulation of the sanctions for Mafia crimes. - toh, look, we are here on purpose - • with the sharpening of 416- bis (as suggested by the Garofoli commission) by equalizing the sanctions - even - • • with those foreseen for the crime of association aimed at illicit drug trafficking (which reach up to 20 years in prison). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, thank you. AIROLA (M5S). Yeah, just one more minute. Excuse me. We are talking about a sentence of four to ten years, we had predicted from seven to twelve, like the external contest in Mafia association, and this association even asks us to reach twenty years. But gentlemen! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Since we unfortunately have a contingency time, because this is how it works, I conclude with an always technical but also political reflection. In May Senator Compagna filed a bill to halve the penalties for the external contest in Mafia association, and this was done - the newspapers say - because the agreement between PD and PdL was put at risk. Schifani asked Senator Compagna - as the chronicles report - to withdraw him, and Compagna had to declare: I do so as not to put the PD-PdL Government into crisis. Then I ask myself: are you not returning the favor to the New Right Center, which in the meantime has formed, now making the discount that you were asked for? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u28	We greet the pupils, the students and the teachers of the Istituto Ezio Contino in Cattolica Eraclea, in the province of Agrigento, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u31	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, to ask you to check the time limit for the Presidency, because the deadline is 7 minutes, so well in advance of the time... PRESIDENT. - The debate is The problem, Senator Buccarella, is to harmonize the times and give everyone the chance to speak. BUCCARELLA (M5S). However, using the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course. I'm following the alphabetical order. Is that okay? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Bertorotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.36, which calls for the first paragraph of Article 416-b to replace the words 'four to ten years' with the following: 'nine to thirteen years'. This amendment is intended to give the penalty its own function, for the sole reason that it is a response from the State in the case of the commission of a crime, such as that of the political-mafia electoral exchange. To tighten the sentence means not to leave unpunished those who are guilty of such a crime, but above all it means to express a clear and determined no to the mafia within the political system. The change in the sanctioning treatment desired by the majority (right and left) does not align with the highest constitutional principles contained in our Constitution, in particular with the principles of equality and reasonableness set out in Article 3. In particular, it is not understood why this new formulation of the political-mafia electoral exchange should be punished with a sentence of four to ten years, therefore less serious than the case provided for in the first paragraph of Article 416-a, which precisely provides for a sentence of seven to twelve years. This last rule, as is well known, is a typical example of an early protection case, as it is placed as a garrison of a fundamental good such as constitutional public order. However, if one considers that the hypothesis of the Mafia electoral commodity is one of the main pillars on which, by definition, the Mafia association itself stands and nourishes, it certainly seems irrational this discrepancy of penalties. I would like to recall - as many of you have done - that the legislator of 1992 was certainly aware of this potential incongruity, so much so that he specifically recalled, for the determination of the edittal penalty, the first paragraph of Article 416-a. You are well aware that, at a strictly political level, this divergence is appaled, especially at this historic moment, inappropriate and shameless. We all know that historically the mafia has always fed on the systematic and systemic contribution of a certain grey area of politics. Do you want to give room to the mob in here or do you want to be an expression of a clean, loyal policy that does not compromise with anyone, but, above all, that does not fall into the temptation of corruption? If you have the courage, please vote in favour of this amendment, which aims to raise even more the edittal penalty, thus providing for the punishment of the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange with a sentence of nine to thirteen years. After all, what's it gonna cost you? You will not go to prison, but those who want to violate the penal code, in total contempt for the rules of substantive equality and reasonableness. Be brave, at least for once. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u33	I call Senator Blundo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.17. We are discussing here the draft law on the vote on political-mafia exchange, a text which in the House recorded a scandalous elimination of the principle of criminality for the politician who makes himself available to the mobster, even if he does not get the votes. It is serious that we are eliminating this aspect, since the Mafia has become a cultural fact; but it has become a cultural fact to be firmly hindered. The reduction of penalties for the crime punished by article 416 of the penal code, bringing the minimum sentence from seven to four years, is also highly questionable, and we know that it has also been contested by magistrates such as Gratteri, Milita and Caselli. I believe that in this House we must be aware of the will of the citizens and of those who are in contact with these issues. The amendments further confirm one fact: we are faced with a Parliament, that of the parties, which has as its sole aim to guarantee impunity to political swingers. The political-mafia electoral exchange is the dominus of the first and second Republics. Evidently on this dominus we want to make also the phantom third Republic rest. I would ask this House and you, colleagues in the Democratic Party, to realize that the same citizens who voted for you are asking for restrictive and serious penalties for the practice of exchanging political-mafia voting. You have also shown on Thursday that you are not free to analyse the acts and to vote with the approval of the agreement on the FTA. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] But you have also shown it at the Eagle, in a false reconstruction for those who laughed at pain, as is apparent from the intercepts of Anemone and Piscitelli. This makes us well understand how much economic interest has exceeded every value and every limit of common sense. This is also demonstrated in the infinite and unfinished construction of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway and in a code of contracts that does not punish these endless constructions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By voting today against the 5 Star Movement's amendment, you have once again demonstrated that you want to maintain the wrong and contested practice of making political-mafia electoral exchange. I therefore ask this House to take this decision seriously; even if the text goes back to the House of Members, we will still be able to have the time: before we vote we would have time to dismiss this measure. So we are not looking for an apology, and we are not even looking for an apology to say that something is being done while before there was no punishable crime. When facing a punishment, it must be dealt with with with determination and not with the discounts that would be given bringing the sentence to four years, thus allowing, with the house arrests, while not to be destituted by the public offices, and - then - not to be subject to a penalty adequate to the crime. I repeat: where is the State in the fight against the Mafia? Where is the support for the magistrates of Palermo who, with courage and very high dedication to the institutions, investigate the State-Mafia negotiation? They are magistrates left alone, like Nino Di Matteo. I want to read you Nino Di Matteo's message... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u35	Please, Senator Blondo, have another minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u36	BLUNDO (M5S). I'll read you the message: The institutions must understand that the right path has finally been taken against the military wing of Cosa Nuovo, but now we must make the leap of quality. With equal vigour, consistency and constancy, the relationship between the mafia and politics, the mafia and entrepreneurs must be cut off. Once aware of this, the mob phenomenon can definitely be eradicated. I join the appeal of Nino Di Matteo also reminding you - and I remind the young people present in the gallery - what Antonino Caponnetto said: "Boys, enjoy life, fall in love, be happy, but become partisans of this new Resistance, the Resistance of values, the Resistance of ideals. Do not be afraid to think, denounce and act as free and conscious men. We are here for this: we are denouncing from free, responsible and aware of the collusions against the country and its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u39	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as you know, we are trying to communicate, but with the buzz of this House we are not facilitated. I ask you a question, from a regulatory point of view, about the quota of the time you are applying. We realize, in fact, that you are giving about five minutes to Senator. I do not go into the substance of the matter, because of course it is up to you to manage the work of this House.), but from the quota point of view I believe that ten minutes to explain the amendments are due. If that is not the case, please be so kind as to explain in advance what the guillotine cut you are applying to the debate on Rule 416-b, so that we can give you a hand in applying as far as possible the guillotine that you, Mr Grasso, are implementing on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u40	Thank you for your cooperation. If he had participated in the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, such as his Leader, he would understand that I have a duty to harmonise the timetable and give the opportunity to speak to all the senators as much as possible, so as to complete the examination and vote on the amendments - as he will have heard from the timetable - in time for the explanations of vote scheduled for tomorrow's afternoon sitting. So it is not a guillotine, because we are allowing everyone to intervene. This is management. Then there are those who have used less than ten minutes and there are those who will use more. Of course, I am trying to harmonise the time to achieve that result, but it is clear that I have to adjust to the harmonization of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u41	I am sorry, Mr President, because I do not want this to be a debate between you and me. However, since the explanations of vote were scheduled for tomorrow's afternoon sitting at 9.30 a.m., I believe that, from the point of view of the right sensitivity, given that the possibility of speaking in general debate has been clearly cut off and since it is now 5.15 p.m., there could be all the time, from now until tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., to make speeches that go beyond the ten minutes laid down. In fact, given the importance of the measure we are dealing with, I think it is important to make our reasons stand, which are then what the citizens want to make heard. I repeat, 2 million emails were sent in no time. Mr President, on the verge of the night (this is not a problem). We are all working together to achieve a result that is the best possible. However, you cannot allow five minutes to present an amendment, when all colleagues here are distracted and come to ask our Group how many we will intervene and how much time we will use on this measure...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u42	Your arguments will certainly give rise to the interest of this House. Let us now continue the work without interruption. I call Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u43	Mr President, I do not understand: do I have ten minutes to explain each amendment or do I have time for everything I have to explain? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can only intervene once. I calculate the time it takes to explain the amendments that you wish to make. I've got three. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome to introduce them. BOTTICS (M5S). In Amendment 1.68 we ask that, after the words: "ten years" be inserted in paragraph 1 of the paragraph "Art." 416-b-c, the following: "Anyone who strives to obtain, for himself or for others, the promise of vows provided for in the third paragraph of the same Article 416-a shall be punished with imprisonment from seven to twelve years." With this amendment we are trying to remedy the inattention of the PD, which has reduced by more than 42% the minimum penalty provided for in the case of electoral exchange between politicians and mobsters. In fact, we restore the original penalties provided for in Article 416-b, i.e. the imprisonment from seven to twelve years, and we do so by recalling the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 416-a, which identifies the electoral political exchange as one of the typical aims of the mob associations. With the scandalous reduction of penalties that the PD wants to have approved, politicians who have made agreements with the Mafia may not be condemned to perpetual ban by public offices, which only triggers for sentences over five years. [[Senator Giarrusso presents a paper with the words "Article 416."]] ter Reduction of the sentence - 42 per cent). Not to mention that - as stated in article 157 of the penal code - the limitation extinguishes the crime after the time corresponding to the maximum of the edittal penalty established by law, so - de facto - the reduction of the maximum penalty of 416-b, which for twelve years passes to ten, reduces also the limitation periods and therefore increases the possibility that these crimes remain without guilty. Already in the majority report of the Anti-Mafia Commission, chaired by Mr Cattanei, of 31 March 1972, it was stated in no uncertain terms: In Sicily the political system of this post-war period was not able to guarantee itself, to defend itself from the mafia, which existed before the present political parties were born, which was not invented by them, be it clear, but which ended up conditioning them first, then polluting them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, please remove that cartel, otherwise I'm forced to withdraw it. (Senator Giarrusso withdraws the sheet) BOTTICS (M5S). However, the penalty reduction is 42 percent. It's a discount now. We're doing discounts. The discovery of politicians who agree to come discreetly to terms with Cosa Nostra is therefore no wonder - since the control of the territory, typical of the Mafia method of government, also means conditioning political power, with all the electoral consequences imaginable - "The Mafia, is a well-known fact, it controls most of the votes in Sicily. The repentant Francesco Marino Mannoia spoke of tens of thousands of votes "under influence" in Palermo alone. And the general elections of 1987 have brought to light massive movements of votes in the most significant polling stations................................................................... For those who would like to check, it is on page 67 of the book of John Falcone "Things of Our Cosa". It is enough for the Mafia to elect "friends" directors and politicians, and sometimes even members of the organization. And this is to orient the flow of public expenditure, and then we talk about spending review - is to vote for laws that are suitable to favor its profit opportunities - laws ad personam - and instead are rejected others - 416-b - which could have harmful repercussions on its turnover. The presence of docile municipal administrations, then, is to avoid a possible brake on its expansion due to or the refusal of building concessions - then we condemn - to check too much in-depth contracts or sub-contracts (...) (and we run away from anti-mafia certifications). In addition to these general conditionings, the Mafia intervenes to ensure those small services of ordinary clientelism bestowed by politicians. Also in Falcone's book we read: Speaking of the hijacking of votes, in the election consultation of 1987, Francesco Marino Mannoia told us: "It was provoked by Cosa nostra to launch a warning to the Christian Democracy, responsible for not being able to block the anti-mafia investigations of the magistrates of Palermo"(...) The connections between a "businessist" policy and a mafia crime, increasingly involved in the economy, make the investigations even more inextricable. " - then we complain - "With this final result: the development of a system of power that is founded and nourished in Sicily on mafia connivances and complicity and which constitutes an additional obstacle for peaceful and efficient investigations. I believe that ours is involved in all the important events of Sicilian life, beginning with the Allied landing in Sicily during the Second World War and the appointment of Mafia mayors after the Liberation. - and then sometimes the nominations come back - I do not pretend to venture into political analysis, but I will not believe that some political groups are not allied to Cosa nostra - for an obvious convergence of interests - in an attempt to condition our democracy, still immature, and in fact now we are trying to change it, but so much the same - by eliminating uncomfortable characters for both. Speaking of mafia with Sicilian politicians, I have often wondered at their ignorance of the matter. Some may have been in bad faith, but in any case no one had quite clear that certain statements seemingly harmless, certain behaviors that in the rest of Italy are part of the normal political game, in Sicily they acquire a specific value. Nothing is considered innocent in Sicily, nor to visit a bank manager to ask for a perfectly legitimate loan, nor an altercation between deputies, nor an ideological contrast within a party. So it happens that some politicians at some point find themselves isolated in their own context. They then become vulnerable and unknowingly turn into potential victims. Beyond the specific causes of their elimination, I think it is indisputable that Mattarella, Reina, La Torre had remained isolated because of the political battles in which they were engaged. The conditioning of the Sicilian environment, the global atmosphere, are of great importance in political crimes: certain statements, certain behaviors, are valid to identify the future victim, without even realizing it. You usually die because you are alone, or because you have entered a game too big. We often die because we do not have the necessary alliances, because we lack support. In Sicily the Mafia strikes servants of the State that the State has failed to protect. What I have just read were the words of John Falcone, taken from the book "Things of Our Things," which was published a few months before his death. Since I still have time and I have tabled three amendments, I should also like to explain Amendment No 1.70.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u44	Senator Bottici, if you could finish, would give the opportunity to other colleagues of yours to speak, since you had almost ten minutes at your disposal. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Buccarella]] My job is to harmonise the time to achieve a result and make as many senators as possible speak. You've been talking for about nine and a half minutes. Anyway, please. So, I don't have a tot of minutes available for every amendment. I asked you earlier, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Under the Rules of Procedure, I have the task of harmonising the timetable. SANTANGELO (M5S). No! BOTTICS (M5S). I ask you a double question. In the harmonization of the times there is a time... PRESIDENT. Do you want to finish or do you want to continue? Tell me what you want to do. BOTTICS (M5S). I want to continue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u45	Amendment 1.70 states: "In paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 416-ter', after the words: "ten years', add the following: "Unless the event constitutes more serious crime, the sentence of imprisonment from seven to twelve years shall apply to those who obtain, or make efforts to obtain, either for themselves or for others, the promise in exchange for their willingness to satisfy the interests of the association referred to in Article 416-a' shall apply. With this amendment we intend to increase the sentence to seven years in the minimum and to twelve years at most for those who strive to obtain the promise to obtain votes in exchange for their willingness to satisfy the interests of the Mafia. The formula of availability to meet the interests or needs of the association was already present in the text of article 416-b originally approved by the Senate, but it was expunged from the Chamber in spite of this way could be traced back to the hive of the criminal relationship between politicians and mafias a greater number of cases than those conceivable with the current formulation. The Annex to the European Commission's February 2014 Report on Combating Corruption focuses on the close link between political corruption and organised crime for a long time. In this report it is written: The credibility of an effective and dissuasive anti-corruption framework depends on the ability to prosecute corruption cases. The public perception of the phenomenon denounces the lack of deterrent effect of the sanctions applied in this area. According to data from the 2013 Special Eurobarometer on Corruption, only 27% of Italian respondents believe that the number of corruption offences investigated and found is sufficient to discourage active or passive corruption. From the reports of the GRECO (Group of States of the Council of Europe against corruption)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you're gonna finish, or how much longer do you need to talk? BOTTICS (M5S). I'm done. I just need one page, which I'll read quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On the basis of Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure, I have the task of harmonising the timetable. BOTTICS (M5S). I conclude with this amendment and I do not explain the other one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, we are already 12 minutes away. BOTTICS (M5S). The European Commission's report continues: The reports of the GRECO (Group of States of the Council of Europe against Corruption) and the OECD show that, although the criminal framework is present as a whole, the existing shortcomings contribute to the perception of a climate of quasi impunity and hinder the effectiveness of prosecution and the assessment of the merits of corruption cases. In Italy, the links between politicians, organized crime and business and the low level of integrity of the holders of elected offices and government are today among the most worrying aspects, as evidenced by the high number of investigations for corruption cases, both at national and regional level. - then we want to make the Senate of the Regions: and go! - A 2010 study by the Center for the Study of Democracy considers the Italian case among the most exemplary in order to understand how close the links between organized crime and corruption are. According to the study, it is mainly corruption widespread in the social, economic and political spheres that attracts organised criminal groups and not already organised crime to cause corruption. According to Italian prosecutors, the links between mafia and corruption are still evident, even in the non-original regions of organised criminal groups. In recent years, numerous investigations have been brought to the public's attention for alleged cases of corruption, illicit financing of parties and undue electoral refunds, involving prominent political figures and holders of regional elective positions. These scandals led to a series of resignations, to the regional elections anticipated in one case, and pushed the government... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u46	Your time is up. I'm sorry. He spoke for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u47	I call Senator Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u49	Agree on who has to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u50	PETROCELLI (M5S). I wanted to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, before your reference to the harmonization of time becomes a mantra... president. A mantra? PETROCELLI (M5S). Yes, a mantra, ma'am, be clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He wants to assign me a faculty I don't have. PETROCELLI (M5S). He probably wants to build it right. I would like to remind you that it is probably your job - and I repeat - to harmonize the work, as you said, under Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure, even if I would object to that, because the case in question should fall within the scope of paragraph 5 of Rule 55. However, I will be more precise: before you leave with your mantra, I can assure you that we will respond with our mantra with which we will continue to repeat that the text, as it was dismissed by the House, is not a text of legal civilization. We want to do everything in our power to make it clear to those outside these classrooms that this is not how it works. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u51	It seems to me that the speeches are quite clear and that they are also heard outside of here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u52	PETROCELLI (M5S). However, I would like to focus on another issue. You rightly referred to Senator Giarrusso, who first set out a sign in which it was clearly written "Reduction of the sentence of 42 percent" after this bill was amended by the Chamber of Deputies. But I wonder: is it better that we no longer make that sign appear because we are faulty or because perhaps, while looking at it, President, in your heart you would have wanted to expose it? That's what I'm wondering. Then maybe we'll get an answer on our own. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u53	My mantra won't let me answer. Senator Bulgarelli, do you intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u55	What do you want to intervene on, Senator? FACTORS (M5S). Also on the order of business, Mr President, with reference to harmonization. I would like to understand what this is all about. Of course, it is your prerogative to harmonise the timing, but harmonisation must also be harmonised with the aims of this debate, one of which is to explain the amendments and then to give colleagues on our right and on our left the power to vote with awareness. Therefore, every amendment has its dignity, it is not the person who illustrates it to have it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u56	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would therefore ask you to leave us with the right to have sufficient time to explain the amendments, regardless of who does so, in order to make it clear to our colleagues that we are positive and positive and are not always those of the no. We therefore call for the amendments to be given dignity, as well as to people.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u57	That's my understanding. As we continue to talk about something else, we take time away from the debate and the debate. I wanted to give the floor to Senator Bulgarelli so that he could explain the content and merit of the amendments, which are useful for all citizens to know. FACTORS (M5S). I wanted to reiterate the need to harmonise these requirements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Don't worry, I will try to give a voice to everyone and in the most appropriate way to achieve the aims that the House proposes. I now call Senator Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to begin my speech with the words of Mr Gratteri, who was heard yesterday by the Anti-Mafia Commission, who said that the Mafia consensus continues to grow because the State is shrinking more and more, while the Mafia gives certain answers. The state can become stronger with efficiency if it invests on the school and if it has control of the territory, if it is present on the territory. Precisely in this regard, I would like to talk about the control of the territory, one of the fundamental objectives of the mafia (in fact, I would say that here in Italy it is the primary one). I would like to tell you an episode, always heard in one of the hearings in the Anti-Mafia Commission, successful in Lombardy to a former officer of the Forces of the Order. He, after retiring, had a problem with his business. Instead of turning to the state - a former law enforcement officer, I stress - he turned to a 'ndrina, which is a family of the 'ndrangheta, because the State leaves people alone; instead of turning to the state he turned to this 'ndrina, obviously finding more problems than anything else and without solving those he had previously. If the State had been present, this would not have happened: I would say, however, that the Mafia has achieved its first objective, namely the control of the territory. The State on Italian territory is on loan. The Mafia's second objective is freedom of action on the financial markets. Also at the hearing in the Anti-Mafia Commission, yesterday we were told that Italy is one of the few European countries that has not yet addressed the rules on self-recycling. In the DEF that will arrive in the Commission and in this House these days little and nothing is said about tax evasion and nothing is said about recycling and self-recycling. So I'd say the mob is still winning in this direction. The third objective is, of course, to remove any kind of tool from people and to have control of politicians. As far as the control of citizens is concerned, the State also gives good help here: why do I say this? In the matter of justice, what have we - indeed, have you - done? You have taken away the possibility of addressing the judges of peace, because you paid them, and you have taken away funds from legal aid: all this always goes in the direction of handing over the state to the mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With the reform of the job you will make us all precarious: while the mafia gives certain answers for the job, the state does not, it makes us precarious again, despite the new that advances. You are also taking away the right to vote, the most dangerous thing you are doing: we will no longer be able to vote for the Presidents of the Provinces; we will no longer be able to vote for the representatives of the Metropolitan Cities and perhaps - but we hope not, because even someone from the PD in this House, realizing that this is a hallucinating thing, is trying to make other proposals - we will no longer be able to vote for the representatives of the Senate either. Not only will we no longer have the right to vote, but you will also take away the tools to defend us from politics both in everyday life and to send you home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With the economic crisis, moreover, the mafias - which you are raising - invest money by buying all the activities they are closing, from Rome up, both in Italy and in Europe; they are buying everything. So deliver not only Italy, but also Europe as a whole, in the hands of the mafias, without taking into account and without implementing all the directives that come from Europe and are of interest to justice. When it suits you, however, Europe asks for it. In this case, no, Europe does not ask for it. At this point, I think it's really time to make a choice: either you're with the state or you're with the mafia, and this vote will show which side you're on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u59	Senator Buccarella, according to the alphabetical order, it would now be up to you, but as the Parent Company I wanted to give you the last word.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u60	Mr President, not as President of the 5 Star Movement Group, but as a mere member, I would like to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u61	I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u62	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1.8 aims to include in the text of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code the indefinite adjective "anything" before the phrase "other utility." PRESIDENT. - The debate is "Anything" or "anything," Senator Buccarella? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Anything, Mr President, since the adjective "anything" did not please anyone. This is a yellow one that took place last week: as we know in this House and as is well known also outside, the Senate, with the collaboration of Members of various political forces, had drawn up a rule - in our opinion, the best possible - that provided for the criminality of the fact that a politician, faced with a promise of votes by the mafia, was responsible for a donation of money - as according to the current rule - or for any other utility. Mysteriously, in the transition to the House, the same political forces that had carried out work with us in the Commission to draft this text, which was the best possible to really combat the terrible phenomenon of mafia infiltration into politics, have changed their minds. This, of course, is a political responsibility for which Members of the Democratic Party will have to give account to their voters and in general to all Italian citizens. Why is it important to re-introduce the expression "any utility" and solve the yellow of the disappearance of the term "anything"? We are told that the rule that we now want to vote, having changed our minds, is fine because it adds the expression "other utility" that was missing in the current text. We know that very well, because I, along with many of my colleagues, am among those who, already as candidates, before even arriving here, wore that white bracelet for having joined the campaign The future for the re-introduction of the expression "other utility" starts again as a hypothesis of crime. As well as the suspicion that we have and that it can explain the disappearance of the expression "any other utility" is linked to the final objective of this majority, which is to weaken the effective scope of this incriminating rule. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I say this because today, according to current law, the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, even the most recent - and I will quote the work of a committee very dear to those who today support the thesis opposed to ours, the committee Garofoli - extends the conduct punishable by Article 416-b to actions that are not of money but of other utility and however quantifiable at monetary level. I would like to quote briefly the judgment No 20924 of the Court of Cassation of 2012, on page 116 of the Garofoli report, which we all have in this House and is also available on the Internet. The configurability of the offence of electoral exchange has been established when the material object of the supply offered in exchange for the promise of votes can be represented not only by money, but by any goods translatable into an exchange value immediately quantifiable in economic terms (e.g. non-money means of payment, valuables, securities, real estate values, etc.), while being excluded from the preceptive content of the incriminating norm other "utility," which only mediated can be subject to monetization. In the present case, in that specific case, the offence where the material object was the workplace was deemed to have been integrated. The exchange was as follows: I the mobster offer you the package of votes and you, politician, make a commitment to hire someone, the friend of friends. Still, according to another judgment of the 2011 Cassation, the consideration of the vows promise can be represented by any good that represents a value in terms of immediate economic commeasurement, remaining excluded from the perceptive scope other utility that only mediated can be transformed into monetizable profits, and therefore, economically quantifiable. By this I mean that without the terms "whatever" or "whatever" will remain out of the conduct punishable all those counter-performances by the politician not quantifiable in monetary and economic terms; here the imagination can range going to fish from the reality: we can think of the sexual benefits offered in favor of the politician or of candidacy commitments by that party supported by the mafia in this or that election or the appointment in boards of directors of companies participated by some municipalities; then, by chance, they will be the municipalities dissolved for mafia infiltrations. We therefore ask the members of the Democratic Party, with whom we have agreed the original rule, why we must give up this. Why do we have to limit the criminal law and get it away with politicians, already since the next European elections? Why do we have to give up punishing those politicians who may be moving in these days, in these weeks, or are being contacted by the mafia powers, without there being any money nor any other quantifiable monetary performance? It could be a promise to transfer an official who's bothering the mob. Don't we make these cases punishable? How do we explain this? How do you explain the so-called opposition of Forza Italia? Brunetta in the House had announced 1,000 amendments to re-introduce the adverb, "consciously" because to demolish the norm Forza Italia said: "We need to specify the awareness, the dole, otherwise I, politician in the land of Mafia, how do I know if I have to deal with people who are connected to it?." This is a great hypocrisy. How come - ask yourself - despite the adverb is consciously not in the text of the norm today, Forza Italia is calm and quiet and does not do any opposition action? Because she's fine with it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because they know very well that today this rule does not serve anything, not only because the penalty has been reduced in maximum terms, from four to ten years (so, with all the problems of prescription and difficulty of issuing precautionary measures: it is the penalty itself that is so reduced), but because without the adverb "whatever," even without a precise conduct of making available, today the politician that repays the promise of votes with activities of support to the mafia organization not quantifiable in monetary terms gets away with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, let's say, let's not let that happen! Don't let him! We have subjected you to e - mail, not us but the Italian citizens, with an instrument that the 5 Star Movement wanted to make available. You know, we know it: it is useless for us on TV to say, taking advantage of the technical times and the political blah blah, that Cantone has said it. Do not hide behind expressions of magistrates, who may even be misled. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would point out, precisely with reference to Canton, a very authoritative magistrate, that on an article of April 3 or 4 on "The Daily Fact" one read a comment favorable to the norm: it is better to let it enter into force immediately, just as it was fired from the Chamber. But then he talked about any activity. I therefore have the doubt that perhaps that magistrate, who in good faith gave a favourable opinion on the rule that you want to approve without amendments, really thought that there was still that adverb that today allows to hit the mafia in those insidious lands, where there is no transfer, the bribe and not even the job, because fortunately the jurisprudence has covered that kind of utility that would be introduced and that for us is fine, but it does not serve. This text, as you well understand, is not good for us, and the battle that we are conducting is why we are free to do it, because we do not have a political leader who perhaps meets some convicted and already fallen criminal the night before and who, in order to support the scandal and the big pacts on institutional reforms and democratic emptying of this country, must bow the head. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] We, very modestly, with our ways that may seem colorful to you (those of my colleagues and sometimes mine), are free to maintain these positions because we have no exchanges to do with anyone, except with our consciences and with the good of this country! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, you still have time. Let us at least restore the original sentence, please, from seven to twelve years, at least that! In addition, if you can really regain a little political dignity - allow me - you also vote in favour of Amendment 1.8, so as not to allow politicians, with escorts (since lately they are in fashion in political life) or with other counter-performances that cannot be monetized directly, to be corrupted by the mafia, or vice versa. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u63	I call Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.62. Economic crisis, precariousness, slavery of workers are the humus that this Government and this Parliament are creating for the proliferation of mafia and organized crime in Italy. Amendment 1.62 calls for the word "ten" to be replaced by the word "fourteen." This amendment increases the maximum edittal penalty from ten to fourteen years, allowing the criminal court greater discretion in bringing the penalty into line with the specific case. Also the Prosecutor Gratteri, inexplicably selected by Renzi as Minister of Justice but then, obviously, unilaterally discarded by the one who is on the Colle, sided in favor of the amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement, and did so on the basis of a simple technical observation: when a maximum penalty is low, it allows the deed to exploit loopholes, such as the penalty discount following the choice of the abbreviated rite and, possibly, also the additional penalty discount for good conduct, reducing the total time of the stay in prison (which is where it should be). Michele Emiliano (PD) said it explicitly on. "La7": the lowering of the edittal penalty on the vote of exchange is a horrible signal that cannot be exchanged for reforms of another nature. In Italy, it is well known, just a few interpretations a little imaginative to grant favorable treatment despite a conviction for serious crimes. It is a well-established habit as a system vice. In fact, the Chamber's reduction of sentence extends to ongoing trials, as well as to the non-final sentences already pronounced. Damn, how haste to reduce the pain to the mobsters! I wonder what accomplice you're trying to save! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Gentlemen, those who are convicted of electoral exchange must be punished in a strict manner, and the penalty must rightly reflect the seriousness of such behavior. It is absolutely impossible to think of any kind of favourable regime against these people, whose crime is deeply offensive to the principle of democracy (a word that perhaps in this Parliament has forgotten), a principle for which we in the 5 Star Movement are constantly struggling. And the fight will never end if these intents are not suffocated in the bud with rigour and firmness: zero tolerance, gentlemen! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is a struggle that is nouned with words that become a guarantee, words such as - as our Senator leader Buccarella has said - "other utility" or even "consciously." I address the senators of the New Centrorightstra and Forza Italia, who wanted to restore the text that came out of the Chamber with this last mention: you try to put the sticks in the wheel to the judges, making it more difficult for the prosecution to prove the awareness of the collusive conduct of a politician towards the mafia. You are therefore explicitly in favour of criminals, whether they are consciously or not, colleagues! It is a behaviour that must not be tolerated at all, and there must be no room for those who seek to exploit, with the help of complacent senators and MPs, the tricks of Italian laws to be acquitted of their faults. As my fellow Senator Giarrusso has pointed out, it is the mention of words as "other utility" that strikes at the heart the system of favors and exchanges at the basis of the power and influence that the Mafia has. These are the effective weapons in the hands of the magistrates, these are the tools that allow judges a deeper union on the actual behavior of the accused for Mafia crimes, thus making it possible to punish not only those who receive money, but also those who receive other utilities, such as information, sexual performance or protection from controls. That is why I call on you to reflect and vote in favour of our amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u65	Colleagues, we greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Media School Rita Levi Montalcini in Campodoro, in the province of Padua, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u66	I call Senator Ciampolillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u68	Why? Mr Capelletti (M5S). In alphabetical order, I would have the right to intervene before Senator Ciampolillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u69	Senator Cappelletti, I understand that you have already spoken to table amendments and, as you know, you can only speak once. You spoke at the last sitting to explain amendments together with Senators Taverna and Giarrusso. The sitting should be considered unique. Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I have spoken, as is stated in the Minutes, in order to present an amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what I hear. I'm sorry. Mr Capelletti (M5S). But since I am a signatory and a signatory to a hundred amendments, I asked for a second one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can only speak once, under the Rules of Procedure, and you have already spoken. There are many voices, along with yours, which will certainly be able to illustrate, as you know, the other amendments. I call Senator Ciampolillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be presenting Amendment 1.40 on raising the minimum sentence from four to nine years. With reference to the text referred to in the first paragraph of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, this amendment aims to raise the minimum sentence from four to nine years. The result that came out of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be considered as disconcerting. In fact, Article 416-b, as amended in Montecitorio, obviously with the opposite vote of the 5 Star Movement, provides for the application of the minimum sentence of four years not only for those who have committed the offence of voting for exchange, but also to those who have obtained votes with a mafia method. In concrete terms, a crazy reduction of punishment for the mobsters is being carried out, which, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code, has been applied for this conduct for a minimum of seven years. With this in mind, the proposed amendment must be accepted, which, by raising the sentence to nine years, renders justice to a very serious course of action, capable of causing serious damage to the democratic rules and to the proper functioning of the country's institutions. Breaking any link between the mafia and politics is a categorical imperative that each parliamentary group should place itself. An incomprehensible reduction of punishment, such as that contained in the text which is being amended here, is a very serious offense to all those honest citizens, to all the servants of the Homeland who have also sacrificed their lives for an ideal of justice and honesty, of which all too often in the measures and conduct of this Parliament has not been traced. The hope is that we will not have to record again an infamous page of an old political class and unworthy of reaping the desire for change of citizens. The 5 Star Movement is in Parliament precisely to remind every citizen of this wonderful country of the inalienable right to live in an honest and happy world. Amendment 1.16 concerns the provision of extending the criminal offence to other non-economic purposes. With reference to the text referred to in the first paragraph of Article 416-b, this amendment aims to clarify the concept of "other utility" and to specify in the final analysis the outcome of the long-standing debate involving authoritative scholars of the subject, as for "other utility" it must be understood any kind of advantage for the agent also having a non-economic character. The clarification obviously does not have an exquisitely formalistic value, but directly affects the very meaning of political commitment in a complex society like the Italian one. The strong presence of organised crime and the increasing mafia control of important slices of the national territory, which are no longer confined to the southern areas alone, impose serious and clear commitments on the part of this Parliament, in order to unequivocally trace the imperative need of a political class able to refrain from any form of connection or relationship with associations of the mafia type. Especially in electoral times, the attention of politicians seems to be distracted from the necessary prudence and distance from grey and ambiguous sectors of society. The ambition of capturing as many electoral consents as possible has historically led the parties of the old politics to compromise with organised crime. It is superfluous to recall emblematic examples, even sadly current, that have caused very serious damage to the image and the goodness of the democratic institutions of our country. The flattery of the Mafia power cannot be allowed in any way and politics has the moral obligation, even before legal, to show the country and its young people the most absolute distance and extraneous to criminal logics of acquisition of electoral consent. From this point of view, the clarification contained in this amendment must be taken into account, in the sense of expressly including in the criminal case referred to in Article 416-b also the hypothesis of other non-economic usefulness. The clarification points to the need to become aware of how the influence of the Mafia on politics can be exercised not only through the traditional means of giving money or similar advantages, but also directly accidents on economic profiles. The complexity of society and the human person and the many possibilities of satisfying even moral interests impose the utmost rigour in defining a criminal case such as the one in question. From sentimental complacency to personal favors and to all possible extrinsications of the needs of the person, the legislator cannot remain indifferent, in the common awareness of the need to cut off any possible relationship between politics and organized crime. Moreover, it cannot escape how the interests protected by the rule under discussion are fundamental for the proper functioning of the entire democratic system of the country. The dream is to live in a country where every citizen can participate in political and institutional life, facing electoral competitions without the fear of necessarily having to bend to criminal logics. In this sense, in order to guarantee the right of everyone to participate freely in the elections, a very strict attitude must be taken in drawing up the legal boundaries of the case which can be assumed in the case referred to in Article 416-b. The free expression of democratic consent and the honesty and integrity of the representatives of the institutions are values too important to be weakened by attenuated forms of the crime under consideration. There must and cannot be any relationship between politics and organised crime, and therefore there can be no non-economic benefit. I shall conclude, Mr President. The 5 Star Movement supports its amendment, in a constant and incessant commitment to the service of the country, for the affirmation of those principles of honesty and integrity indispensable to allow that change that citizens require and deserve to have. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u71	I call Senator Cotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u72	Isn't Senator Crime before me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Cotti comes before Crimes in alphabetical order. Excuse me, but at least we get to this: with my mantra I get there. [[Laughter.]] Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.60, which provides for an increase in the maximum penalty provided for in this measure from 10 to 16 years. This proposal is part of so many other amendments that we have tabled, aimed at raising the maximum penalty or the minimum penalty. The ideal would be, at least, to bring them back to those provided for in Article 416-a. It would suffice for the majority of this House to accept only one of these amendments and automatically all the others would fall. Now, I want to go and mention the reasons for the fact that it would be very useful and it would be absolutely right to restore the penalties provided for in Article 416-a. Basically, without the approval of one of these amendments, we are going to do a favor to the mafia and politicians who are collusion with the mafia, because we are actually reducing the penalties; we are doing them a favor. But what happened to this measure? This provision was first approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 16 July last year, and was modified by the Senate on 28 January, and so far it was a widely shared provision. Then, on 3 April last, there was an amendment to the House of Deputies, which, in fact, upset the very reasons behind this kind of measure: I am referring to the fact that the penalties have been lowered. What happened between 28 January and 3 April I don't want to say it, because practically everyone here understood it. MARTON (M5S). Say it, there's an election! Cotti (M5S). There are elections, of course. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There has also been a change of government and there has been an interesting intercourse between the new President of the Council of Ministers and a former senator, who is now no longer a senator. Let us take some of the testimonies of distinguished parliamentarians who have expressed the same positions as the 5 Star Movement. Listen to what Davide Mattiello, rapporteur of the PD for this measure in the Chamber of Deputies, said in the Justice Commission: The reasons for this restoration - I am talking about the imprisonment from seven to twelve years - which emerge from the Senate debate must be sought in the considered extreme seriousness of the pollution of political competition resulting from the mixing of interests with criminal organizations, which justifies a sanction at least equal to that provided for in Article 416 bis. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That was what the PD rapporteur said in the House of Deputies. I pass to the second testimony, which is of Senator Lumia, always of the PD, who said: "Trying this measure" - we talked about the one with the penalties provided for before - "you can say to the Mafia: your day has arrived, your end; we will attack you on all sides, on the cultural and social side and on the economic and financial side, but also on that of political-institutional collusions. Colleagues - Senator Lumia continues - we will have to increase the duration of the penalties. This was said by Senator Lumia. Then, we do not know why, the vote went differently. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, I would like to mention my colleague, Senator Casson, who is always from the PD, who I see here, who said in one of his speeches: This is certainly a negative fact, because, in our view, if there is interference between crime and politics, this behaviour is, if anything, an aggressive one and certainly not a minor one. Therefore, the penalty threshold should at least be brought back to the limit set for the mafia-style combination. This has not been done! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I simply conclude by saying this to the PD: but what do you want for Italians? What do you want to do for Italians? Say one thing, you introduce yourself to the press by saying some things, and then you do some more. This is the result. That's all I'm gonna say. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u73	I call Senator Crimi (at great request, since Senator Cotti wanted him to anticipate).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u74	Mr President, I begin by reading a text that I think many people know. I'm not saying who it is. You'll understand right away. The misunderstanding that is often played on is this: it says that politician was close to a mobster, that politician was accused of having convergent interests with the mob organizations, but the judiciary did not condemn him, so that politician is an honest man. And no! This is not right, because the judiciary can only make a judicial assessment, it can say: well, there are suspicions, there are even serious suspicions, but I do not have the legal, judicial certainty that allows me to say this man is mafia. However, as many such facts have emerged from the investigations, other organs, other powers, that is, politicians, disciplinary organizations of the various administrations, municipal councils or whatever, had to draw the necessary consequences from certain proximity between politicians and mobsters, who did not constitute crime but still made the politician unreliable in the management of the public thing. These judgments were not drawn because you are hiding behind the screen of the sentence: this guy has never been convicted, so he's an honest man. But, tell me a little, but you don't know any people who are dishonest, who have never been convicted because there is no evidence to condemn it, but there is the big suspicion that it should at least cause the political parties to do a lot of cleaning, not only be honest, but appear honest, cleaning inside them of all those who are reached anyway by incidents or disturbing facts even if they do not constitute crimes. It was Paolo Borsellino. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This was a message, a testimony, that he left. Well, today I am trying to explain Amendments Nos 1,56 and 1,75: the first increases the sentence to twenty years (and perhaps it is still little) and the other introduces a very high financial penalty. Evidently, in these years, the appeal of Paolo Borsellino has not been accepted, if today we find ourselves in the need to punish with a penalty the politician who still lends himself and makes himself available: this is what we seek, or rather we tried to punish with article 416-b, that is, the provision. In fact, the following sentence was deleted in Article 1: "in exchange for the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the association". She's gone! Mr Buccarella stressed the elimination of the word "anything." We are well aware (because you have taught us this) that, when we deepen a legal text, we are also looking for the path in the Commissions and in the Chamber, the debate that has taken place, in order to understand its meaning. Then, when the word "anything" has been deleted, at the next trial, the attorney on duty will say: "You see, the Senate Assembly has taken away the word "anything," and therefore did not mean all the usefulness, but only some, that is, those quantifiable economically." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is the meaning of the word "anything." So we do not punish the provision, which is far more serious than the specific economic utility. I received an email some time ago: "Hello Vito, there are important news about the petition The future starts again to strengthen the law on the political-mafia exchange vote", giving note to the President of the Senate who wanted to honour the commitment by calendarizing this bill. The following week: The approval of the Senate of the amendment of Article 416-b - a rule that affects the political-mafia electoral exchange - is good news! The future is always starting again, a campaign that many people have joined. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then the rapporteur of the Democratic Party, in the House of Deputies (to quote, as my colleague Mr Cotti did, a few more pearls), on 26 March last he asked to withdraw all the amendments tabled, because otherwise he would have been given an opinion against it. He said that the only one so unconstitutional is to continue to tolerate the relationship between politics and the Mafia. This was Congressman Mattiello, also of the Free Association or at any rate close to it, and again: We don't like prejudices and prejudices. This morning we will face the assault of Forza Italia in article 416-b. Let's hope they don't have a fifth column. The fifth column was inside you! You have to go find the fifth column! [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by hoping that you will not fall asleep, with a fairy tale: Once upon a time there was a knight, indeed a former knight, who without horse went to visit the king, king who reigned in that undisputed realm for more than eight years, in that beautiful castle. Nothing is known of what they said (sin, the fairy tale would have been very interesting). Only one thing is known, that from that day everyone lived happily ever after: PD, PdL, Napolitano, and perhaps even the Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u76	About what, Senator? SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked to speak on the amendments, having listened to the amendment tabled by my colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked him to understand the subject of his speech. You have the right to do so. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I want to think first. I believe that within this House each of us must make our own contribution in the interests of the community. We all work to give the country better laws. I also remember an important passage that was written by a character I always refer to in my life, Saint Augustine, who said that many have certain roles, but they are like scarecrow in the vineyards. I have the utmost respect for everyone and I believe that, despite the differences of our ideas, we must all work together to produce laws in the interests of the country. That is precisely why I am asking Mr Giarrusso to accept my willingness to accept both Amendment 1.10 and Amendment 1.39. In fact, I believe that, in certain passages made here last sitting by Mr Giarrusso, he was absolutely right. If we were to believe that someone actually collided with the mafia, the penalty should not be four years, not four to ten years, not seven to twelve years, but twelve to thirty years. In other words, all the necessary conditions must be created so that these characters do not deal with matters of public interest in the future. I agree with and endorse Amendment 1.10, because when it is understood that there is a desire on the part of someone to do evil, in full consciousness, and that this is organized in order to create damage to the community, to the people, to the Italian people and to the people in general, the maximum penalty must be applied. Since I am a senator here and have a mind of my own to think, I may sometimes find myself on different positions than those of my party; this does not mean that I deny the part I belong to, but I just want to say that, thinking with my head, I put the interests of the country and the Italians first and second place the interests of the parties. I believe that everyone should do the same in this Parliament. I am sorry, because the amendments that Senator Giarrusso has tabled are the same as those that had tabled another political side. I do not understand why he did not support them and do not continue to support them, since within that political part there are characters who represent the judiciary and are champions (they say and hear some), they are points of reference of legality and battles against the Mafia organized on national territory. I would therefore ask you, Senator Giarrusso, to accept my willingness to accept your amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, do you accept?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u77	Mr President, we accept the subscription, also considering how happy the head of Senator Scilipoti's party will be. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Laughter]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u78	These are other evaluations, secondary. The senator takes responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u81	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think I am interpreting the thoughts of my fellow Members in this House at the moment, who are all honest and decent people, whatever the 5 Star Movement. Mr President, you must warn the Senators of the Five Star Movement. (Some Senators of the M5S Group show a willingness to intervene.) In fact, they are constantly saying that they are faced with an old and unworthy political class. I do not think that in this House... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Bravo, keep doing the show. There's Beppe Grillo in the stands. Keep going. He does it for a fee, you do it for free. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cardiello, please. You can speak, but you can't... CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you must warn the Senators of the Five Star Movement. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u82	Quiet, allow the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u83	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Each of us has a dignity. I am intervening to say that I am an honest person, I have a clean criminal certificate, I have no pending cargoes, so I do not accept from colleagues of the 5 Star Movement to hear me say that I am a Member of Parliament collided with camorra or the mob. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] It never happened. I call on my colleagues from the other parliamentary groups to take a leap of dignity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Protests from the M5S Group]] Today in this House we are witnessing the monologues of these people, ready for the election campaign, because there is their leader in the gallery. I do not accept that, and I think that all colleagues will not accept that. You are required to speak, Mr President. We can't face the confrontation... [[Senator Crimi's lively comments. Protests from the M5S Group.]] There they are: you are used to not making people talk! Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u84	No hogs, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u87	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, just because you were absent when something happened, I would like to tell you, because you could not see it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us try to give dignity to our debate. We're not gonna go digging up some stuff that's already happened. AIROLA (M5S). I do this precisely to give dignity to this House: Senator Cardiello tried to kick me the other day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When he speaks of dignity: first. Secondly, our political leader is in the gallery because his, Senator Cardiello, can no longer enter here. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u88	Let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u89	I call Senator Donno.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u90	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.12, which reinforces the phrase "other utility" by establishing that the usefulness in question is for the benefit of the recipients or of the promise or other persons. This amendment opens the door to a number of considerations, but the first is born spontaneously: who's usefulness? In the legal text under discussion, there is a parification of roles: the politician who accepts the promise of obtaining votes in a mafia way is equated to the criminal, that is to say to those who promise to find the votes in exchange for something else. The mobsters, in the current text of the bill, get incredibly a penalty discount. But I remember, Mr President, that discounts are made at the end of the season; we are at the beginning of spring, it seems a little early. However, to be more specific, the affiliate of the Mafia association has decided to make a gift (a gift to the criminals), that of lowering the threshold by providing for the imprisonment from four to ten years. To answer Senator Scilipoti: not thirty years, I would throw the key for some! We would throw the key for some if we really had to be more precise. I continue in the illustration of amendment 1.12: the methods of obtaining preferences in this case are always the same, with the constrictive force typical of the associative bonds and with the condition of subjection and of omerty that results. And so you're going to fatten up the crazy logic of persecuting cowardly advantages. How can it be thought that the new and inconceivable wording of article 416-b that we are dealing with passes here in the Senate immediately and without any modification? You think this article is an exchange of kindness between neighbors, or a trade of goods at the local market; we think anything else. This article summarises the history of the most important and tragic years of our Republic, which is forgotten on time in this House. Every single word contained therein will determine very strong application differences that will affect the future of the country, justice and the management of mafia associative phenomena. The vote of exchange - we know that - kills constitutionally guaranteed rights. I remind you: it may be that every once in a while, repeating it, you remember and treasure it, and we always hope in the generational change. With the vote of exchange, decision-making autonomy is lacking, clearly cutting the freedom to think, to make choices, to live democratically, to be an active part in supporting legality. The individual citizen is considered a mere puppet, a robot at the service of crime, and is deprived of the personality and secrecy of the expression of their political preferences. In the light of this, an alarm is needed: while politics and institutions are, in fact, helping the Mafia to pay less severe penalties, against the territories in which the political-mafia electoral exchange takes place, the seats become gas chambers. You make them gas chambers. You make the urns of civil rights guillotines. If that's what you want, at least have the courage to say it to our faces here. Other than you keep saying you're honest. We're the only ones who say that. We keep saying we're incensored. Before the nomination, we signed a code of conduct. We have a clean record. I continue to explain the amendment, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're legitimizing the state-mafia negotiation. These days the trial takes place in Palermo on the State-Mafia negotiation. How come you only now remember, and quickly, to deal with some issues? There is talk in the Commission of Article 41-a. In the Anti-Mafia Commission, fortunately, valuable testimonies are heard. This is Rule 416-b: a case, coincidences. I continue to explain the amendment, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you could finish, you would give more room to speak to your colleagues. Either way, you evaluate it. WOMAN (M5S). Of course, I'm in the end. It is a low attempt to commit suicide, to compromise the effectiveness of one of the few, very few points in the fight against organised crime. Those who agree to satisfy the interests of the Mafia associations kill again, tragically, all those who have fought to eradicate this hateful phenomenon. You, Mr President, have met Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino and, therefore, you will understand well what I am talking about now that I will read their thoughts. Paolo Borsellino argued: The fight against the Mafia, the first problem to be solved in our beautiful and unfortunate land, was not only to be a detached work of repression, but a cultural and moral movement that involved all and especially the young generations, the most suitable to immediately feel the beauty of the fresh fragrance of freedom that makes reject the smell of moral compromise, indifference, contiguity and complicity. John Falcone said: "The Mafia, I repeat once again, is not a cancer proliferated by chance on a healthy tissue. He lives in perfect symbiosis with the myriad of protectors, accomplices, informants, debtors of all kinds, great and small singers, intimidated people, debtors of all kinds or blackmailed belonging to all layers of society. This is the culture ground of Cosa Nostra with all that involves direct or indirect implications, whether conscious or not, voluntary or obligated, which often enjoy the consent of the population. I conclude my speech with a thought from Judge Nino Di Matteo: We know that the relationship between the mafia and politics is at the heart of the problem. Especially at a historic moment like this when the state managed to hit the military wing of Cosa Nuova hard, one must realize that, in order to defeat the Mafia definitively, it is absolutely necessary to cut off its relations with politics. Then let's make sure the mob gets defeated. If in this House - as some say - there are people who still have a glimmer of conscience, let us make sure that the mob is defeated. In any case, we have a clear conscience. We, men and women of the 5 Star Movement, walk with our heads high. We're free from the chains of the mob. We don't have tentacles clinging to us, we don't have anything to say to anyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. WOMAN (M5S). I'll finish. We are free men and women. Do you prove it to us? Are you capable of that? I don't think so. Try it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u91	I call Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u92	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, a politician is a person to whom the citizens put their future and that of their children into their hands. It should above all have the sense of the state and the sacred respect of the mandate received. When we talk about Article 416-b we talk about a particular crime: the crime for which a politician agrees with mobsters to get elected. It is no longer the citizens who decide who is elected, but the organized underworld, the main enemies of the citizens. It is a vile, hateful crime, a betrayal of Article 1 of the Constitution, the pillar of the very meaning of the community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Sovereignty belongs to the people, not to the mob! What is the balanced penalty for such a crime? Let's ask an entrepreneur, maybe from Northern Italy. What would Italy be if we didn't have heroes who oppose lace, who split their backs, who come to commit suicide because they no longer have work to offer their employees, while the 'ndrangheta is low in procurement? What penalty would it be for politicians who instead make dirty electoral agreements with the mob? Let's ask an unemployed man. The mafias eat 560 billion euros each year and the state does not find 20 to finance the income of citizenship [[Applause from the M5S Group]] or to cut IRAP to companies employing young people. Because that's what you told us, there was no money! What penalty is it for those who make electoral agreements with the leeches of public resources? Let's ask a father who has a drug-addicted son. What penalty does the politician who makes electoral agreements with drug traffickers deserve? Let's ask a mother who deserves a politician who deals with a mobster who has dissolved a child in acid. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You would find someone who would come to invoke the death penalty. The bill passed by the Senate provided for a sentence of seven to twelve years of age, and it would seem little to anyone. Can you imagine the reactions if you went to the square to say that those pains have been further reduced to the House, that you lowered them to four and ten years old? Four years is the penalty for falsifying a passport. Is that your size? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Go to the square to explain that when the minimum sentence is less than four years a politician does not go to jail, even if they have discovered it in flagrant crime. Go to the square to explain that if he is sentenced to four years, after four years he may still be retiring. Go there, and then we'll see. Go and say this Matthew Renzi, because this is the truth. That, yes, is the truth! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A few days ago Berlusconi went up to the Quirinale and the day after the Democratic Party voted in the House the reduction of the penalties. Here in the Senate, the same party has tabled amendments to bring the penalties back to the proper limit, as we have done. We would have voted on your amendments. But today you have withdrawn them and we are here to discuss after the Secretary of the Democratic Party has just met again with a convicted former deceased senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] What should your voters swallow? In the election campaign you have made yourself beautiful with the white bracelets of the campaign The future starts again, and now you take it all back. Don Ciotti, talk now. It's late tomorrow. When will you be able to re-produce a new campaign like this if today this lie will pass as a victory? For years we've heard the misunderstandings say that the fight against the mob has been theirs. They're gonna boast about this scam, too. Now you need the courage to be on the right side. The broad understandings today are unholy pacts! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u93	I call Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u94	Mr President, since I give dignity to the individual amending proposals, I will present Amendment 1.5, which reads as follows: 'In paragraph 1, paragraph 'Art. 416-b ', first paragraph, after the words "money or" insert the following: "any other benefit or benefit" In this way we re-enter the concept of "every other utility," not only of money, which by now is not so desirable exchange goods, for there are many other things. My hope is that, always repeating the same twigs, we can act not so much on the conscience of the sleeping party, but on the subconscious, trying some learning technique during sleep: since we talked about mantra, we also try autogenic training. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, who knows, hearing that these "however", "anywhere" and "any other usefulness" are more appropriate, sooner or later they will link the subconscious to the right arm and vote for some amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The State-Mafia negotiation, unfortunately, for us Italians has become a philosophical-cultural concept - which includes a series of procedures, interlaces, relationships, secrets, interceptions, subterfuges, glances, winks, votes and elections - which can now be counted among those of humanity (such as talking about the relationship between State-Mafia, peace in the world or hunger in the world), something dark and smoky, a grey halo around our State, and not only. The problem is that it has become a way of life: no longer therefore the usual bribe, which was used once, but the transformation into a paradigm, whose translation can be, for example, TAV. Last week, in fact, we gave sovereignty to France, precisely to steal the TAV from anti-mafia laws: this is not money, it is a favor, difficult to quantify in terms of money. We could otherwise include waste management, building speculation (as in L'Aquila), large works (such as the bridge over the Strait of Messina or Expo 2015): these are the favors that you exchange now, not the cowardly bribes. All this happens thanks to the fundamental role that the policy of the last 40 years has played in relations with the powerful criminals, giving spread to the mentality of the exchange " do ut des ". You have expunged a small word to make everything more smoky: from article 416-b of the penal code you have therefore removed the adjective "whatever", leaving the phrase "every other utility", this in order to leave free interpretation to the judges, to give the umpteenth blow of fioretto and to remain indolent compared to a practice now consolidated as the exchange of votes for the favor. A long time ago it was the place of work, according to the practice so common in our towns: a job is given in exchange for the vote, because so much is the only way that you have left to have votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Unfortunately, today there is little left in the coffers of the State, so we exchange what little there is to trample on every right of citizens. A simple word removed, that "whatever" we are repeating now for hours and hours - and hopefully it gets into your head - not to give any definition and no certainty about what the "usability" is. On the other hand, if you had left the word "anything," you would not have allowed almost - at least this is what we hoped, and we still believe it, because we hope in the whispering of the subconscious - not even the slightest dialogue (I stress, we do not speak of usefulness: not even the least dialogue) between the mobster and the politician. We want to put this phrase back: we strongly want this amendment, in order to re-introduce the word "every" because every exchange is to be condemned, just as every other benefit so obtained is. From Radio Aut, Peppino Impastato recounted the award of a building contract in his town hall to the mobster on duty, in an atmosphere surrounded by western music, introducing it with a welcome from the Maficio di Mafiopoli. Once it was Sicily, Calabria, Campania: now, unfortunately, it is Piedmont, Lombardy, the fruit and vegetable markets in Veneto, the waste cycle between Lazio and Campania (on which we have submitted millions - indeed, billions - of questions, without having any answer yet), the reconstructions after the seismic disasters (which our colleague from L'Aquila always brings to light) or after the floods. The other time I saw, from these scranni, worried looks of those who wondered how he would do it after the approval of the text to the Senate, as he would be re-elected. Here, we are not concerned about being in a case of potential crime, but about losing the friends who allowed the election, whoever they are: mobsters, affiliates or simply centers of power. There is no longer a great difference between more or less occult powers. It's a mindset now. It is your mentality, the same that characterizes us in the eyes of the world: Italy, spaghetti, mandolin, mafia. What are we gonna do? In fact, what are you doing? We are trying to restore the dignity of this proposal. You reduce your pains, you cut them in half; a downgrade, a quisquilia, a nothing. Halving the penalties for politicians, but also for the corruptor is also this established practice. One question. But wasn't our President-in-Office's programme a law on conflict of interest or anti-corruption? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I thought it was a precondition. Remind our President-in-Office of the Council to put these measures in his slides because he may have forgotten them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A person of Prince's Casal once told me a fact. I want to tell a story, too. He told me that on his way home after months he was out for study, near his grandmother's home he saw a crowd of people with so much of the forces of order. He approached three people talking to each other a few meters away and asked: excuse me, did something happen? They said to him, "No, nothing happened. What had happened? They killed someone. What happened to the House? Nothing happened, you just took one word out, but you killed democracy and freedom of vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to conclude by quoting those who have strongly fought for 416- bis which, with the new text of 416-b, is substantially raped: Giovanni Falcone. It's a message of hope I want to send you... president. I would ask you to conclude by giving your colleagues the opportunity to speak. FACTORS (M5S). I will definitely finish. The Mafia is not invincible, it is a human fact and like all human facts it has a beginning and it will also have an end. Rather, it must be realized that it is a terribly serious and very serious phenomenon, and that it can be overcome by not claiming the heroism to be unarmed citizens, but by engaging in this battle all the best forces of the institutions. You've closed five mouths, you've opened 50 million. A heartfelt invitation to our sleeping party to awaken the subconscious, the unconscious, whatever he has left, to vote for us at least one amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u95	I call Senator Fucksia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1.50 and 1.83. With the first, we ask that the penalties linked to the political-mafia electoral exchange crime call, at their best, the edittal penalties provided for the premeditated murder. In other words, we ask that the person who accepts the promise to obtain votes, as stated in article 416- bis of the penal code (force of intimidation of the associative bond and of the condition of subjection and of omerta that results in exchange for the payment or promise of money or any other utility), be punished from four to twenty-six years. Society must stigmatize the meaning of the criminal conduct described in Article 416-b, considering it as ignoble as the killing of a human being. Here the constitutional principles of democracy, freedom and equality are killed. This is where the state is killed. We have tabled this amendment because the Mafia, ladies and gentlemen, must be fought in all its forms, in all its extension, in all its implications. Above all, it must be hindered when, infiltrating politics, it distorts its democratic dimensions by electing fake representatives of the people who are, in reality, pawn men who respond to a single direction: the Mafia itself. When this happens, when the devious and ignoble mafia strategies come to fruition, a threefold funeral is celebrated: democracy, a rule of law and citizens, who will directly or indirectly become victims of it. It is no longer enough and respectful to celebrate in this House the symbols of the fight against the Mafia and to commemorate its victims with condolences without guaranteeing the conditions and the means to defeat it. It is important in this country to give a clear signal: anyone who deals with the Mafia, anyone who negotiates with it by selling justice and democracy cheaply, carries out a despicable crime that deserves a firm and serious reaction from the State. The Mafia feeds through many roots, and unfortunately the most consistent one, which helps to consolidate its strength and to keep its illegal activities fruitful, is precisely politics. We must recognize with courage that politics is the most important channel for the mafia, and those who hinder the demolition of this strong bond are to some extent complicit, if not even involved. We must look ourselves in the face, colleagues, and without hypocrisy tell the country which side we are on. It is enough to hide behind linguistic artifices, stylish clauses, rocambolistic reliefs to build important escape routes to those of us who have availed themselves or think of using the mob to access the buttons of power. I had reported a passage by Giovanni Falcone that first reminded my colleague Crimi; I refer to what Falcone said that the judiciary not supported by politics and laws can do little, because often the misunderstanding is played precisely on the politician who, near a mobster accused of having convergent interests with the mafia organizations, has not been condemned, and therefore can appear innocent. However, the judiciary can only make a judicial assessment; we are the ones who broaden the field and defeat the hypocrisies. Today we have the opportunity to frame those behaviors that Falcone signalled us as criminals, to define the contours of the mafia-political mix in a clear and clear way, so as not to leave room for grey areas where impunity reigns. Each of us today can play its part in rehabilitating politics in the eyes of our citizens. Honest colleagues, I appeal to you: allow an epochal turn of war against the Mafia to take place; that is, allow effective rules finally to be introduced into our system that can cut down those invisible, but tragically harmful threads that bind some politicians to the Mafia, discrediting you too. Paolo Borsellino always said that politics and mafia are two powers that live on the control of the same territory: either they wage war or they agree. Well, let this Parliament not seal this friendship. I would just like to mention briefly also amendment 1.83, in which we talk about the financial penalty added to the imprisonment. I am referring to one of your words, Mr President. She once said that mobsters are not afraid of prison, but they are afraid when they understand that they want to put their hands in their pockets. The penalties to be imposed on those who make use of the Mafia in order to play illegitimately the honorable role of representative of citizens must be important and strike the crime on several fronts: surely it must be condemned to imprisonment, that is to say to the subtraction of freedom, which is the most serious form of repression that the State applies to criminals (among other things, this penalty assumes not only a punitive connotation, but it aspires to act as a symbol for a re-education of the individual and his return to the community with different values and perspectives); the other penalty, in our opinion, must be the financial one. It is necessary that those who have committed the offence of voting for exchange should also be punished at the level of assets, since it is likely that the position of representative of citizens will also have been used for personal enrichment purposes. It also calls for the proceeds of these fines to be allocated to those persons who are directly offended by the Mafia, to its victims. We want, with this rule, to give the financial penalty a function of social rebalancing and refreshment from the evil done; we want the State to return compensation and, above all, justice to the victims of the Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u97	I call Senator Gaetti. Keep in mind that time is getting thinner, and I want to give voice to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u98	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1.14 and 1.23. The first amendment provides that in paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 416-b ', first paragraph, after the words 'other utility', the following shall be inserted: 'even though of a non-equity nature'. We have seen the importance of non-economic goods, and so far there has always been talk of the asset aspect or other utility, considering that everything can be quantified. In fact, law shows that there are extremely important assets that do not have a capital quantification. These include, for example, the rights of the person, the right to life and physical integrity, honor and family rights. That is precisely why I want to point out that politics today serves the mafia in exchange for non-equity assets. Let us take, for example, the politician who turns away a policeman or policeman, someone who does his duty and investigates the mafia: this intercession does not have an economic consideration, but in reality it is very useful to the mafia. Another example that we could make is the ability of the politician to interfere with the journalistic and academic world in order to direct public opinion towards certain behaviors. We know the importance of marketing in creating needs that the citizen does not have, managing to shift the model of life. Well, if you cleverly intervene with newspaper articles and television services fitted with art, which direct or instill doubt, the average citizen could change orientation and attitude. All scholars of mafia phenomena agree that only by changing civil ethics and common feeling can we change this society. Until the prospects for criminals and robbers are reversed, we will not be able to make progress. It must be taught that shortcuts are not functional to civil life and that contracts must not be won for intimidation or exchange of money, but for constructive quality and business management capacity. Now, on the other hand, we are looking at the economic decline, so that the work will not be performed as a rule of art and, as we saw last night in the transmission "Report" are built prisons that the day after the inauguration are inexhaustible. It is clear that the politician is able to act on all these aspects, organizes cultural meetings with complacent professionals and with deep arguments conveying wrong messages. Here too, examples are wasted, which do not even grin, because if it is not written in the penal code, the crime is not there. I can think of the State-Mafia negotiation: authoritative academics have also pointed out with books that there is no article in the penal code. The negotiation has been, it has been proved, it is lapalissiana, but it is not a crime. So it's not bad. So it can be repeated. As you can see, you can generate a cleverly manipulated discussion and lead to conclusions that hurt society, but not the same as the mobster and the businessman, who thus increase their strength. I therefore hope that Amendment No 1.14 will be accepted, because it runs counter to the deletion of that part of Article 1 which concerns making available to non-equity utility. With reference to amendment 1.23, paragraph 11, Art. 416-b-l, first paragraph, after the words: 'it is punished', it is proposed to add the words: 'If the fact constitutes more serious crime', I am a little dismayed that there has been a very academic talk of the opposition between the third paragraph of Article 416-a and 416-b, and I find it strange that these technicalities are not accepted. I would also like to stress the fact that last Thursday we were told to make it quick, that we must quickly adopt this measure. But I would like to remind you that last Thursday, twice there was no quorum, so the great haste was not real. I would like to conclude with the statements made yesterday by Mr Gratteri in the Anti-Mafia Commission, who said that it is necessary to make the mob risky and that it should not agree to criminals. Well, if the experts tell us these things, it's really amazing that you guys in here are doing exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u101	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I noticed that you have changed mantras: you have passed to "You have little time", while earlier it said: I have to harmonize the work. The substance is the same, the objective is the same: do not give us the space we already deserved in general discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The goal is to give voice to everyone. PETROCELLI (M5S). I understand that speaking in this Chamber of an exchange vote, where politically we have Groups that have proposed the exchange vote, like the PD, when they took SEL tow in the electoral campaign [[Senator Buemi's comments. Applause from the M5S Group),]] Alvo then tell them later: "Do a separate Group and on important issues you follow us in turn" or like the League, that has gone to tow with the former PdL, now Forza Italia (also that is vote of exchange) is problematic. But I understand that to them this concept of an exchange vote, even if not political-mafia, but strictly political-affairs, comes from one ear and comes out of the other. But we are here to say, conceptually and practically, that we want to be on this bill from start to finish, so I ask the Presidency or to remove the mantra, politely, or to find an effective one, with all the pieces of regulation. Otherwise, instead of remaining as quiet as we did, we can move on to a slightly more noisy opposition, as was the case with the TAV. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u102	If you want to provoke the House, you can do so. [[Senator Santangelo stands up]] Senator Santangelo, sit down, you don't have the floor. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's talk! We want to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, if you want to provoke the House, you can do so, but the Presidency does not gather and continues in the democratic debate, as the House deserves. I call Senator Girotto. SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, if you continue, I'll call you back to order. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Please report the call to order against Senator Santangelo. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u103	Mr President, I would like to table two amendments, and I would also like to say to the House that, like my fellow Members, I am very angry, but, unlike them, I do not raise my voice; this does not mean that it is less decided: I simply have a different way of expressing myself. We are always talking about the inclusion of the expression 'or any other benefit', the fact that this famous adjective has been eliminated and the fact that we cannot simply include in the norm the prediction of an economic advantage, a financial advantage, in short, a material advantage, but we must extend the prediction to any other kind of utility. Several other colleagues have spoken about this for a long time, so I do not want to repeat these concepts. Amendment 1.43 concerns the reduction of the minimum sentence from four to six. Here we are witnessing a very dangerous reversal of trend, that is, we are not changing the crime, but the penalty: something that should never be done. We are going to disturb, to vanish, to confuse the entire legal body of so-called electoral crimes. We sweep away years of established jurisprudence and we'll have to do it again. The decrease from six to four years is not accidental, because in doing so we go below the minimum threshold of the appalling arrest. And you understand well that for an officer to no longer be able to arrest a politician who is committing a particular crime, to no longer be able to proceed to the arrest in flagrante, it is a very serious thing. Just as we are also going to change the limitation period; in this case too we favour the recurrence of the crime and its non-penalty. As well as, casually, we also remain under the five-year threshold of the amount of the sentence to have a perennial ban from public offices. This is a very intelligent rule to help the crime commission, rather than suppress it. I leave room for my colleagues to continue with the illustrations and I address the Italians: don't worry if I don't raise my voice: I won't leave either. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u104	I call Senator Lezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u105	Can you tell us what amendments you intend to put forward, Senator Lezzi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u106	Everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u107	Good.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u108	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I shall be very brief. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, also from your colleagues. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I will use a courtesy to my leader, who is bored listening to us babbling about the mob with our ganghered speeches, as Senator Mineo says, who is perhaps more embarrassed by his silence and the silence of the Democratic Party than by our speeches. So I'll try to be brief, because maybe he's the one who gets bored, from his tweets, Senator Mineo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , disproved in this case. Like when he goes on television and says that the 5 Star Movement understands nothing, talks about banks unnecessarily, talks about Bankitalia and understands nothing, but is punctually denied. The high morality of the Democratic Party is thus resolved in boredom. I'm moving on. (Senator Mineo asks to intervene.) You can't answer me, it's not your turn, it's my turn now. If I am not mistaken, personal matters go to the end of this House. The law on the exchange vote - article 416-b of the penal code - in the text that reduces the sentence from four to ten years in prison, compared to the one fired in the Senate from seven to twelve years, is not only not perfect, but is unconstitutional: it violates a fundamental principle of our democracy, that of the equality of citizens before the law, enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution; equality in the sense of the proportion of the penalty to the gravity of the crime. One cannot condemn a poor Christ to eight years for stealing and, instead, predict a sentence of four years in the minimum, which then becomes three years with the general attenuators, for a politician who resorts to the vote of exchange in the electoral competition. Predicting, as the law does to examine the Senate, a less serious penalty in favor of politicians than citizens, a privileged penalty for those who cynically fall to displeasing pacts with ferocious murderers of Cosa Nostra, a reduced penalty, stands against the principle that the penalty must be adapted to the gravity of the crime and must more severely punish the crimes of greater social alarm. This principle of adequacy of the penalty to the gravity of the crime is rightly respected by the penal code in similar cases, such as that in which the law punishes in exemplary way a magistrate who gets corrupted in the exercise of his judicial function and punishes him more severely than a mere chancellor or a judicial officer who get corrupted. In fact, while the corruption of a chancellor for an act of office - be careful - is punished by Article 318 of the Criminal Code with a sentence ranging from six months to three years, the same criminal conduct committed by a judge or prosecutor in a civil, criminal or administrative trial, in order to favor or harm a part, is punished, according to Article 319-b of the Criminal Code on corruption in judicial acts, with a much more severe penalty: the triple or quadruple imprisonment than the penalty imposed on the chancellor; penalty which goes from three to eight years for the magistrate. Even the penalty for the magistrate is still rising from four to twelve years if from the corruption comes an unjust sentence not exceeding five years; not only, but for the magistrate who gets corrupted, if from the corruption comes a condemnation that goes beyond the six years, the penalty is from six to twenty years. And this inequality in favour of politicians does not fail for the things said by the Undersecretary for Justice Ferri, according to which the new text represents the result of an important effort made by the Government and the main parliamentary political forces, including Forza Italia, if it responds to the truth that Mr Brunetta, leader of the Chamber of Forza Italia, has declared himself enthusiastic about the change made to the House. It is well known that the Renzi Government, in order to change the law on the vote of exchange, has availed itself of the support of the former president of the Council Silvio Berlusconi, leader of Forza Italia, condemned for tax evasion and socially dangerous, who has built his political fortune also on the vote of exchange at parliamentary level; in fact, the former president of the Council Berlusconi, according to the prosecutors Vincenzo Piscitelli and Henry Woodcock, would have corrupted not a mere citizen, but a MP of the Republic, Sergio De Gregorio, who confessed to having been corrupted to give his vote in Parliament to the government Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But there is more: when for the first maxi-process to the capimafia Totò Riina, Bernardo Provenzano and many others, the politicians who had made themselves available to Cosa Nostra did not honour their commitment to conditioning the trial, Cosa nostra decided to assassinate those politicians. It was precisely the politicians who, without paying money or providing utility, had made themselves available to Cosa Nostra to influence the decisions of the judiciary, influence the formation of laws or procure contracts and concessions. Salvo Lima was not a man of honor, but at our disposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Thomas Buscetta said that Lima was not a mobster, but a mobster's disposition. And he was killed because he hadn't honored his commitments. The time has passed when politicians offered mafia money to get their votes; criminals want politicians not to pay a penny, but to be ready to solve the most heterogeneous problems, from small to large. The agreement, as a rule, happens in this way: I will get you the votes, but you will be at my service for every eventuality.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u109	Conclude, please, Senator Lezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u110	Mr Lezzi (M5S). And this hypothesis of being ready to satisfy any request of the mobster should not be a criminally irrelevant conduct, because millions of votes are given by the mobsters and citizens conditioned by the mobsters without a prior promise of money or a concrete utility. I wish the Democratic Party good work on reforms together with former Mr Berlusconi! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u113	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak - and I must tell you the truth, but I think I have to do so - on the order of business. A meeting of the Democratic Party Group was held this morning. Speaking in the Assembly, I reminded the Senators of the Democratic Party that the coming weeks would be marked by a continuous provocation of the Senators of the 5 Star Movement [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , because this is their election campaign. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u114	Colleagues, allow Senator Zanda to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u115	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). Are you on the order of business, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda, please. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have been sitting in this House since the beginning of the parliamentary term like them and I have never interrupted any of them. Never. PETROCELLI (M5S). But when? You interrupted us with the continuous trap! [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] ZANDA (PD). I've never interrupted anyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, you have no right to speak because you didn't ask. ZANDA (PD). I have never interrupted them, even when, as recently, I have heard from them a sequel of insults and absolute falsehoods on the Group of the Democratic Party. The Senators of the 5 Star Movement know very well what is the battle that we have waged on this law and on all anti-Mafia legislation. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u116	Let Senator Zanda speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u117	ZANDA (PD). Listen up. AIROLA (M5S). No, listen to us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. ZANDA (PD). Listen up. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I'm sorry, but why do you have to interrupt? This is Parliament. Why do you have to offend Parliament by screaming from when you enter the Chamber to when you leave? Why? [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Pagano.]] Can't you talk like everyone else? Can't you explain? Is it possible you can only scream? Calm down for a second! [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups. Comments from the M5S Group]] You're gonna lose the election! You'll lose them! You will lose them for the things you do, for this parliamentary behavior! Stop it! [[Applause from the PD Group. Warm protests from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u118	Quiet! Please, Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u119	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the difference between us and them on this measure is this: we want the next elections and the next election campaign to be governed by a law that regulates the political-mafia electoral exchange and they don't! [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] And that's why, only for this reason that you... M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u120	Quiet! [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] Senator Santangelo, I have already referred you to the order, and it is recorded in the minutes! Quiet! This House is being asked to intervene democratically. The Holding Company has the right to intervene, as you know very well. [[Senator Buccarella points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Buccarella asked to intervene: I will give him the word, but I do not admit this gazzarra and these choirs, which are stadium! Those who do such choirs must not be in this House! [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] I call Senator Buccarella. [[Senators of the PD Group draw the Presidency's attention to the fact that Senator Zanda has not concluded his speech.]] ZANDA (PD). President, I haven't finished yet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought Senator Zanda finished the surgery. Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u121	Mr President, I repeat what I have already said, and I will clarify that more clearly. The M5S Group wants this measure back to the House of Deputies because it is certain that it will not be approved in time for the election campaign for the European elections. This is their design: point and that's it! [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups. Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Uras protests against some people in the diplomatic corps forum]] URAS (Misto-SEL). When that's enough, that's enough! We want names and surnames! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Buccarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u122	Mr President, the debate in this House, with the explanation of the amendments tabled by the M5S Group and even the correct amendments by the PD Group, which had been abandoned and which we have taken on board, gives us a paradoxical spectacle, because the PD Group's group leader is not well understood by virtue of what rule of the Rules of Procedure (we do not know why the President has allowed him to speak so long, about an intervention outside the work), is obviously making a provocation. Senator Zanda, I understand the difficulties for the electoral campaign of the majority, of which you are the direct expression. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , not in this House, but outside, in cities and squares. So, we understand well that you, who know our impulse and passion, can succeed in your figure, when you do it (fortunately, you don't always do it), to provoke us. So technically, you were a provocateur today, because we are not insulting anyone here, as will be seen from the shorthand report. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u123	Can we move forward with the debate? Looks like we're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u124	BUCCARELLA (M5S). That is exactly what we think: follow-up to the debate and do not gather the provocations, which are useless. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Lucidi. (Senator Lucidi's cell phone spreads the sound of the penniless.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u125	Sorry, I had the ringtone on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u126	Can you turn it off in the Chamber? At least put it in quiet mode.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u127	LUCIDES (M5S). I will explain Amendment No 1.69, and I will do so, dear citizens, also for the Sleeping Party, which until now was quite calm. I would like to remind you that those who sleep do not take votes, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment 1.69 calls for you to be able to re-introduce the following sentence: - willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association. I repeat: the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association. As far as I am concerned, words are extremely important. I would like, then, to retrace with you the meaning of the expression "voto" of exchange. The vote of exchange is the vote given regularly by an elector, but not motivated by political choices resulting from sincere and disinterested reflections, but corrupted by some gain received from the candidate or from whom for him. This is an autonomous crime case, for which the same penalty imposed on the members of the association is provided. For this reason, we call for the re-introduction of Article 416-b, just as it was decided at first reading in the Senate, which equates both the mobster and the politician who carry out this electoral exchange. We know very well, in fact, that for a term of four years there is no perpetual ban from public offices. And then there is always the prescription in ambush and it is difficult for such a small penalty to actually translate into detention and prison. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to stress that what we are asking for is simply a great responsibility on the part of this House, by the Democratic Party and by Forza Italia. We are, however, quite skeptical that you can do so, for a fundamental reason: as well as when we... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] If colleagues allow...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u128	Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u129	[[Senator Buemi's comments at Senator Lucidi's address.]] LUCIDES (M5S). You're gonna be okay. Come on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Lucidi. LUCIDES (M5S). Similarly, when we asked for the clear vote in this House for the non-validation of the election of the former senator, currently socially useful, condemned Silvio Berlusconi, we showed that we, with our obvious vote, are free from all electoral ties. No one has appointed us, no one should be accountable to us, but to the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi. Ironic comments from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]] I myself was elected with 450 euros! CARDINALI (PD). But by whom? Shut up! LUCIDES (M5S). How much money did you spend to get elected and how much money do you give to your Party every month? [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u130	Senator Lucidi, please abstain. Senators, let the surgery finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u131	LUCIDES (M5S). Please be democratic at least once. What signal do we want to give to our young people? What is the role we want for politics? What is the right separation between powers? I believe that one of the many things missing in our country is the sense of civic education. [[Warm protests and ironic comments from the PD Group.]] Yes, yes: lack of civic education! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, talk to me. LUCIDES (M5S). That lack which leads us to accept the fact that a condemned person is received at the Quirinale, which is the greatest symbol of our democracy. That lack that has led us to accept the fact that these Assemblies - this and the House - have agreed to laws to protect the fourth office of the State, which does not exist: the Schifani praise and the Alfano praise, which you have approved at the speed of "renziana"! You approved them with speed - fshh - renziana! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then, if you like, Parliament will work: indeed it will work! We have accepted in this House a former senator, Dell'Utri, founder of Forza Italia, arrested in Lebanon with an international arrest warrant...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u132	Conclude, Senator Lucidi. What amendment are you putting forward?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u133	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] LUCIDES (M5S). Amendment 1.69. Then I conclude by simply saying that the deputies and senators of the 5 Star Movement are not going to go back one step: we denounce this negotiation, we denounce the emptying of 416-b! Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u134	I call Senator Engili.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u135	Mr President, I should like to explain Amendment No 1.81. The 5 Star Movement requests that the following be added to the first paragraph after the first paragraph: The penalties provided for in the preceding paragraphs shall also be subject to a financial penalty of EUR... [[Protests of Senator Uras with reference to attendance in the forums]] I'm sorry, I'm distracted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u136	Please, Senator Eat them, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u137	MANGILI (M5S). from € 10,000 to € 70,000, destined exclusively to the Rotation Fund for solidarity with the victims of crimes of the mafia type, extortive requests and wear, referred to in article 2, paragraph 6-e, of Decree-Law No 225 of 29 December 2010, converted, with amendments, by law February 26, 2011, n. 10 [[Senator Uras protests again at the Secretary Senators' address]] The purpose of this amendment is to provide for another fine, which is of a financial nature, to be imposed on those guilty of the unlawful conduct described in the first paragraph. As is well known to all, by Decree-Law No 225 of 2010, the State provided for the unification of the Solidarity Fund to victims of extortion and usury, established by Decree of the President of the Republic No 455 of 1999 and the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of Mafia-type crimes, established by Law No 512 of 1999. The Solidarity Fund Regulation provides that, at the request of a party, victims of mafia-type crimes who have been a civilian party to criminal proceedings against the perpetrators of Mafia-type crimes shall be compensated; secondly, compensation shall be granted in proportion to the damage caused by the events suffered in favour of the victims of extortion, carrying out an entrepreneurial economic activity; thirdly, a ten-year interest-free loan shall be granted for an amount commensurate with the damage suffered for the usury victim performing an economic activity in any case. We in the 5 Star Movement believe that those who have been guilty of the illegal conduct in question are obliged to contribute directly to the financing of the Solidarity Fund. In part, in doing so, the victims will be assured that the members of the criminal organisations or those who feed the activities or interests of those organisations will contribute directly to the Fund which will, within the limits of law, provide compensation for the damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u138	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u139	MANGILI (M5S). This will also seek to compensate for the cuts that the Fund has unfortunately suffered in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u140	I call Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u141	Mr President, I should like to explain Amendment 1.10. First of all, I want to thank Senator Zanda here for giving me a lift - you might say in volleyball jargon - because he has shown everyone that you are irresponsible. You always have a way of blaming someone else for what you don't do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And you know why? Just read it, article 1 of this blessed bill: it's seven half lines: you don't need a scientist. You say it is our fault if it is not approved: but it was enough to approve it in the House! [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You heard him! MARTELLI (M5S). Our amendment (I see that it looks at me, President, and thinks that I am going off the subject), together with the others, is intended to bring the text back to the way it was before; before you (Indicate the benches of the right), making it available to them (Indicate the benches of the left), you changed it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I know this will bother your conscience, but we don't want you to go home with a quiet conscience. No, we're not giving you the excuse, absolutely not! Do you know what a clean conscience is? You brought in a felony, 416-b... [[Senator Buemi's protests]] I'm talking: be quiet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, please use tones that are neither outrageous nor offensive. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] But try to hear what he says, President! [[Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u142	Please don't use that kind of tone, Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u143	SANTANGELO (M5S). Call him back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you've already been called back. Senator Martelli, continue. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] Senator Buemi, please come this way. Senator Martelli, please don't use offensive tones. MARTELLI (M5S). I haven't opened my mouth yet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's already opened it! MARTELLI (M5S). And I'd like to continue, kindly. As I was telling you, we don't allow you to go home with a clean conscience. We won't let you, because with this bill you did what you did all the other times. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). This is not an illustration of the amendment. MARTELLI (M5S). You've made a law that was already there worse, with the excuse to make it a better one. You have done so with the decree on the Land of Fires, with the derogation from anti-Mafia legislation. Derogation: Do you remember that? We do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and hopefully you remember it too. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). That is not the illustration of an amendment. MARTELLI (M5S). You have done so with the demolition of abusive houses, making the process of killing more cumbersome and longer: congratulations! You did it with Ilva, when you decided that the prescriptions of the AIA were meant to be fulfilled if they had only begun: good! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You did the same thing here. Then our amendment 1.10 envisages reinserting what you have deleted. You removed the little bit that provided that, in addition to the economic benefits, there were also the non-economic utilities, because you are always there to measure everything with the meter of money. The examples have been given; it does not take a lawyer to understand it. If there is no exchange of money, there is no problem: then I take votes from one who does a favor to another, who does it to another, to another, and eventually someone will do a favor to me. He missed the round. Is that okay? Do you want to vote for it? But you must know that you are voting on this. Do you know the Minotaur operation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, finish, please. MARTELLI (M5S). I have five minutes left, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you the minutes. She doesn't take it. MARTELLI (M5S). In terms of the Rules of Procedure, I have ten minutes, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked her to conclude because I have to harmonise the timing and make her colleagues talk too. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which states that I cannot speak for ten minutes, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I told you that I am delegated by the Rules of Procedure to harmonise the timing: do not insist [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Senator Santangelo, shut up. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MARTELLI (M5S). I welcome the Rules of Procedure of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. MARTELLI (M5S). In the Minotauro operation, it turned out that former Mr Lucà - you should know him, he was staying with you - had had a wonderful telephone conversation with a De Masi, who was the head of the 'ndrangheta in Piedmont. Great. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Stop! MARTELLI (M5S). When D.A. Caselli - not the last one - released the interview, he said: Mr Lucà, according to script, falls from the pear: never caught shadows on De Masi, never had any suspicions, never received reports, indeed, never thought that there could be mafia infiltrations in Rivoli, therefore in Piedmont. Well, this is called making available to the politician to the mobster. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Caselli is pointing this out, and what did you decide? That's okay! Mr Fornaro (PD). But he wasn't even investigated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, please stick to the subject of the amendment. Don't go any further. MARTELLI (M5S). The words of D.A. Caselli seem absolutely pertinent to me. It is the indifference of politics that becomes complicity. These are the words of Caselli, and we invite you to remember them. [[Senator Fornaro's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u144	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u145	MARTELLI (M5S). So if you want to do something consistent with what you said, there is Amendment 1.10 which partially restores a text that was there and that you, by making yourselves available to them, wanted to change. Don't come campaigning on our backs, because we won't let you! Don't even try! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u146	I call Senator Marton.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u147	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I have asked to speak on the order of business several times! There's no way she's gonna ignore it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, you too! You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u148	Mr President, I am speaking very calmly and very quietly. If I did not understand correctly, it was agreed at the Conference of Leaders that the amendments should be voted on by 8.30 p.m. this evening so that explanations of vote can be taken tomorrow. This seems to me to be the resolution of the Conference of Leaders of which you have informed the House. In the course of the debate, I heard you say several times that you were delegated by the Rules of Procedure to harmonize the timing of the debate. Allow me, Mr President, but we must proceed to two stages, that of the explanation of the amendments, in which obviously only the authors of the amendments can intervene, and the voting phase of the amendments, in which each Senator per Group has the option... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Laughter from the M5S Group. Senator Palma's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u149	It was a mistake. Technology doesn't always help.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u150	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, don't worry. During the vote, therefore, each group has the opportunity to speak through one of its members. Mr President, I probably have a concept of harmony different from what I think is being practiced in this House. There is harmony between the timing of the speeches between the stage of explanation of the amendments and the voting phase. In fact, if, Mr President, we had to arrive at 8.15 p.m. with speeches to illustrate the amendments, I believe that harmonisation would not have been there but would only have given room - legitimately? I do not know, it is you who presides, not me - to the members of the 5 Star Movement Group to speak for three hours and three quarters, essentially not allowing the senators of all the other Groups to intervene, or, better, to intervene only for fifteen minutes. Two o'clock, Mr. President. If you have to harmonise the timing, harmonise them, considering that there are two stages and that the senators of the Groups other than that of the 5 Star Movement have every right to intervene, if they wish, amendment by amendment, to counter, politically or substantively, the content of the amendments. Otherwise, we witness - I regret to say - what Senator Zanda called a long meeting, with good peace I do not know if of his harmonised mantra but certainly of the concept of harmony. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Barani and Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u151	I call Senator Marton. I would ask you to shorten the speaking time as much as possible so that the amendments can be considered. (Senator Airola asks to intervene.) Senator Airola, we know what you want to intervene on. It seems to me that enough time has been allowed to express all the views on the amendments. Please, Senator Marton.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u152	President. - I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1,55 and 1.74. According to your aesthetic sense and the taste of harmony, how much time do I have? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Two minutes. Just two minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. MARTON (M5S). Then I'll be quick. She was in Milan on September 13th in the same place I was: the annual edition of the "Talenti antimafiosi". I would like to know from this House and above all from you, Mr President, if we reduce the penalties, as we are doing - and Amendment 1.55 actually wants to tighten them up - what example do we give these anti-mafia talents, these kids who are studying how to fight the mafia? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What are we doing? I also take it out on my fellow Members on my right, because the other day, shamefully, Senator Albano, a person of mirrored honesty, made her act as a shield as the Taliban do with children at war. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] They hid behind an extremely honest person so they could vote for a piece of shit! Another one engraved. In the hallway I met two other people, always from the apparently Democratic Party, who told me... president. You have to explain the amendments, Senator Marton, please. Don't tell us about your hallway meetings. President, you gave me two minutes. Will you let me use them? He's given ten minutes to others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. MARTON (M5S). That is to say what will happen when they vote on this measure. Two senators - always of mirrored honesty - told me that, making us bearers of our opinion in this way, we will look - or we look - stupid; well, I responded to those two senators that I prefer to look stupid rather than seem mafia. This is what will happen by voting on this measure: all the honest people in there will look like mafias, you have to deal with it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u153	I call Senator Montevecchi. AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you've already spoken. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the floor must be given on the order of business: one minute, one moment, one second! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't give you the floor on the order of business, Senator Airola. Please, Senator Montevecchi: you have the word. Two minutes to intervene. AIROLA (M5S). Then I'm talking anyway! [[Protests.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, you can speak. [[Senator Airola's protests.]] Senator Airola! Senator Montevecchi, I gave you the floor, please intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u154	Mr President, don't be mad at me, though! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, look, I don't get angry at all, I'm very calm: maybe someone else in this House needs to calm down. [[Applause.]] Please, Senator. Montevecchi (M5S). On page 333 of the DEF (three perfect numbers), in chapter I.9, "The context: justice and security as a real asset for the development of the country," I read: The review of the framework for the prevention and repression of organised crime (...) is also to be finalised, etc. When I read the above page, at the thought of what was waiting for us in this House today, I told myself that the interpretation options were varied; various like the faces that this majority shows depending on whether it is inside or outside this Palace. I give you the following three interpretative options, and then I come to Amendment No 1.49, which runs counter to what is written here: firstly, there is a clear pull between the young Holden and the varied and funny fauna of parliamentarians who populate the current majority, because there is one thing written in the DEF and today we are here to defend a measure from a majority that wants to bring it back to a disconcerting version, as well as dangerous for the legality in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The scenario that emerges from this hypothetical detachment is interesting. Secondly, MEPs do their dirty work to save Matthew's hands, those little hands that he likes to shake when he talks, because the more he shakes his hands, the more the brains of those who listen to him fall apart. CARDINALI (PD). Yours too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Speak of the amendments, Senator Montevecchi. Montevecchi (M5S). The chronic incoherence that softens our young man full of hopes and that ensures that it confirms the crystalline continuity with a advancing past. Having said that, amendment 1.49 tends to bring back the penalties foreseen for the four years to the minimum and ten to the maximum - they have been cut by 40% - again to seven years in the minimum and to twelve years in the maximum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Montevecchi (M5S). Of course, ma'am. Because this lowering of penalties has two major very dangerous effects. Firstly, with a sentence of up to four years, there is no perpetual ban from public offices. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). That's the point! Montevecchi (M5S). Therefore, in the event of a sentence of four years, the sentenced person could continue his activity in the public office once the sentence has passed. Secondly, there is the prescription: by preventing the difficulty that such a small penalty actually translates into detention in prison, it should be remembered that the lesser is the conviction, the smaller are the temporal requirements for the latter to fall into limitation. Once the time has elapsed... Get it done. Montevecchi (M5S). ...so that the crime falls into prescription, the crime committed is extinguished (and in our past we have illustrious examples of the extinction of the crime by prescription), unless the accused refuses the prescription in order to complete the trial... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u155	Senator Montevecchi, I'm sorry, but for the second time I told you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u158	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I apologise, but I think it is necessary to intervene, since Senator Martelli, Mr Lucà, has been falsely called into question, a person who cannot defend himself in this House. I would like to speak for the dignity of the people, because being accused in a Parliamentary House of being conniving with the mobsters is not something that can be accepted. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lucà... AIROLA (M5S). You have to intervene at the end of the session! At the end of the session! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, can you silence your colleagues? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Esposito. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I'm just getting started, and I'm gonna have to finish? Mr Lucà has never been reached even by a guarantee notice. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] He was never called a defendant in any trial. He was heard as a witness. In this country there is still a code of criminal procedure: you are investigated when you receive a warranty notice and, in this country, you are prejudiced when a court sentences after three degrees of judgment. If colleagues of the 5 Star Movement need... [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] . They ask their boss, he's a felon!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u160	About what? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business in order to clarify this issue once again for the benefit of the whole House. I am referring to what is becoming a quota that tends to guillotine, since with the advance of time the minutes available to members of the 5 Star Movement Group are being reduced at sight.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u161	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] At the Conference of the Leaders, today, on the basis of the timetable for tomorrow's day, having agreed that the measures under consideration were not particularly demanding, it was proposed to set 9.30 a.m. for explanations of vote. At that time, and already today at the beginning of this sitting, I asked you, and you gave me a reply, to take account of the fact that, if the timing of today's sitting had not been sufficient for the explanations of the amendments and for the voting phase of the amendments, the 9.30 a.m. should not be understood as peremptory. I ask you, please, if you can confirm this. As you can see, I am addressing this request in a way that is not polemical, rude, or obstructive, that we do not have here... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! BUCCARELLA (M5S). ... but simply to protect the right to express all our views on the measure under consideration. If you have the kindness to be able to confirm this, this will reassure the minds of my group colleagues and also of other Members of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u162	Senator Buccarella, I can confirm to you that the harmonisation of time with regard to this measure presents some difficulties. We still have to move on to the opinions on the amendments and vote on them. You understand very well that we will not be able to achieve what was agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, i.e. start with explanations of vote tomorrow morning. There may be some amendments to be voted on, but we cannot start this ex-novo phase tomorrow morning. That's the concept. Let's be clear. If you want to finish your illustrations, I invite you to do so quickly. It seems to me that the amendments have been well explained. I call Senator Moronese.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u163	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1,37 and 1,13. Amendment 1.37 calls for the penalties provided for in Article 416-b to be increased from eight to twelve years instead of four to ten years. Many of you who sit here today also sat in the last Berlusconi Government, then in the Monti government, in the Letta government and today also in the Renzi government, but let's go to the facts. By decree of 7 June 2013, the President of the Council of Ministers Enrico Letta establishes the commission for the preparation of proposals for the fight against crime, including patrimony. The commission has as president Roberto Garofoli, magistrate of the Council of State, and the members are: Magda Bianco (director Banca d'Italia), Raffaele Cantone (magistrate of Cassation), Nicola Gratteri (adjacent prosecutor of Reggio Calabria), Elisabetta Rosi (magistrate of Cassation), and Giorgio Spangher, professor of criminal procedure. Many were the hearings held at Palazzo Chigi, including that of Prefect Giuseppe Caruso, director of the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of assets seized and confiscated to organized crime, of General Leonardo Gallitelli, of Don Luigi Ciotti, president of Libera, and also of Dr Franco Roberti, national prosecutor anti-Mafia. The former President, Mr Letta, signed the presentation of this committee with these words: The recovery of the country after a decade of crisis, which has hit the whole of Europe hard, is the fundamental objective of government action, but there can be no good growth without the strengthening of legality. This document is presented and published in January 2014; it is 182 pages, but what we are interested in is on page 120, in paragraph 6.1, which sets out the committee's proposal. Well, I read the following in the report: Indeed, the extension of the subject of the exchange or of the benefits payable by the politician in the face of the commitment of the Mafia association requires, in homage to a principle of systematic reasonableness of the penalties, to make different the sanctioning regime provided for in article 416 -ter of the penal code compared to that... Get it done. MORONESE (M5S). If I don't finish the quote...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u164	You cannot read a document that is known. This is not an illustration of an amendment. I call you back to the subject of your speech. You must not read us a text that is very well known, as has also been said by your colleagues. Please finish. It is entirely pertinent, because in this committee... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't say it wasn't relevant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u165	It was Article 416-b and it was specified that the penalties of Article 416-a were to be increased in relation to the fact that those who commit crimes of political-mafia exchange strengthen the Mafia association, thus becoming part of that criminal organization that wants to take advantage of its political-decision position. You, gentlemen, are going against the institutions, but also against yourselves, against the government you voted for, which you have given so much confidence and against what that government had declared necessary to implement. Allow me one last sentence. What changed then? Is it that the deep harmony between Renzi and Berlusconi manages to maneuver so much your actions? To cheat your consciences so much? If you vote against this amendment, it is certain that sooner or later you will be called upon to explain all this to the citizens, even if they - the citizens - will soon have their revenge, erase you from politics, drove you out of those seats. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Be serene, if you vote today against the institutions, the citizens and all those who have sacrificed themselves in the name of anti-mafia, it will be useless to escape! [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group. The Senators of the M5S Group display sheets bearing the words: "Rialzate le peni #offolamafiaallostate."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u166	I beg the quaestors to intervene to remove the cartels.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u167	MORONESE (M5S). If you take our word off, at least let us show the signs!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u168	All right, if I put you through the cartels, we have concluded the debate on the amendments. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and NCD groups]] You have already said everything by synthesizing your speech. I call Senator Morra, who was also the Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u169	Mr President, just because I was the Leader I remember having a small, peaceful debate with you in which I asked you kindly, but I am too lovable sometimes... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u170	Please, personal matters can be left aside. You can explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u171	MORRA (M5S). I was talking about myself. I asked you when it was possible to carry out your commitments consistently, because you, once elected, made a public announcement to say that there would be work in this House from Monday to Friday, precisely because parliamentary work has its own dignity. But since... president. He knows very well that the Heads of Groups at the Conference must decide this and he knows very well that I am in the Senate from Monday to Friday and beyond, so this speech does not apply to me. MORRA (M5S). I would like to explain, if you will allow me, Amendment 1.6. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please explain the amendment. MORRA (M5S). This amendment is at the very heart of the matter. I would remind you that on 28 January, in the general discussion, Senator Palma proposed here the amendment 1.105 which was argued very effectively against by Senators Lumia and Finocchiaro. These (especially Senator Finocchiaro) explained to me the reasons for their opposition, pointing out the positivity of the intervention of my colleague Senator Buccarella. Now, I want to ask this question because you will also teach us logic that we have to learn everything: if from 28 January to today things have changed, tertium non datur, there are two possibilities: or there has been a meeting with Forza Italia and everything has been clarified and Verdini has imposed his line - and perhaps we all know this - or on my right there is a Group that is the expression of the schizophrenic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Why then, I would like to ask with what theoretical support you go to change a text in double reading - and there is also - and at the same time you ask for the abolition of the perfect bicameralism? In fact, if today the PD can go back on its steps is because there is double reading. All in all, Parliament should then discuss and reason more and we should have the courage to say things as they are. Why can we ask for this amendment to be adopted? Because we don't have to take votes, because we weren't born to "vincer" any of them. On the other hand, those who have to make agreements with the criminal organizations that control the territory may have to prosecute them with the jokes rather than with the certainty of penalties! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u172	I call Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u173	Mr President, over 2 million emails have been sent to PD in a few days. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] to take its own amendments, made by the 5 Star Movement, and vote on them. Why are we giving so much time and importance to this debate? Because it is the heart of the matter, because the political-mafia exchange is what sinks Italy, it is what makes the TAV a great Italian misunderstanding, what makes all the great works four or five times more expensive than those of the rest of Europe. We know what it means, but I do not tell you, who already know, that 416-ter already exists, I tell the people at home: 416-ter already exists and refers, as far as penalties are concerned, to 416-a, which provides for penalties from seven to twelve years. And now we have a committee, the Garofoli committee, which has asked for an increase in penalties: and what do we do? We're cutting them down! This is of unheard of gravity, and we know very well why this sentence is reduced (from four to ten years instead of seven to twelve): because with the measure of a few weeks ago, the emptycarce, we have brought from three to four years the possibility of serving the sentence to the housekeepers and social services and not having the ban from the public offices. We have been repeating this for three hours, but it seems that no one listens to these very simple words. [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] If we do not understand the gravity of this fact, we do not understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u174	Conclude, Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u175	NUGNES (M5S). The political-mafia electoral exchange means then that in order to favor the Mafia there will be in these scents men collusion with the Mafia: this is the heart of the situation! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must prevent this from happening, absolutely! M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No choirs, please. Conclude, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). The word "whatever" was paraded, but it was fundamental, and was emphasized by Milita, because it means raising economic value to exchange. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. I'll tell you again for the second time. NUGNES (M5S). It is also in the DNA of any Italian; it is not a vague legal expression, because any Italian knows what it means to say: "I make myself available". [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u176	I call Senator Petrocelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u177	Mr President, I would like to explain the mythical amendment 1.15, which inserts three words: 'patrimonial' or 'non-capital', and with which we make a political speech which is practically the following. In this House this afternoon we have forced people to puff around with speeches that should be serious (and serious, but they were taken very lightly), and we are going to hold this debate until the end of the evening, with great contentment from our colleagues on the right, left, up, downtown and downtown. But it will be difficult to convince these Members to change their minds about the concept of a political-mafia exchange vote, if they do not already have clear on their own what the concept of an exchange vote is, which, as I said before, is a concept that they apply abundantly when they start campaigning and when they arrive in Parliament. In this Parliament - and here is the difficulty in passing amendment 1.15 and making it clear to my colleagues - it is difficult to remind them that they are in here because they have already negotiated a business political vote for exchange. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). You too! PETROCELLI (M5S). On the one hand, carrying a fake opposition, called the North League [[Comments from the LNP Group),]] But he only votes freely when they ask him, or even a group created out of nothing called Grandi Autonomie e Libertà... BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Like him, Mr President, he's here for that too! PETROCELLI (M5S). On the other hand, carrying a fake left-wing opposition that now claims to be opposition, but goes to the Democratic Party's tow when and more pleases him. How then can the concept of a political-mafia exchange vote pass if these gentlemen do not even want to listen to the basic concept that there must not be a political vote of exchange when they run and when they enter Parliament? That is what I wanted to remind my colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thanks for reminding us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u180	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have a meeting of the Chamber and Senate Budget Committees at 8.30 p.m., with the Minister for Economic Affairs, on the DEF. That means we need to get out of here at least ten minutes early. It is 8:00 p.m. at 8:30 p.m. and we want to know whether we should go to the vote or whether we should not go to the vote. That's all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u181	It's 8:00 and there's still five members talking, so I assume we're not going to the vote tonight. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Caliendo's comments.]] We will start tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. with opinions, reports and so on. I call Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u182	Mr President, we are faced with a rule that should combat the political-mafia exchange vote. Initially this rule was perfect and had in itself some descriptions, such as "whatever" before "other utility," which was fantastic and did not offer absolutely the opportunity to lawyers to go to say anything else and then make sure to adopt an interpretation to exonerate the politician who makes himself available. Then there was even: "in exchange for the willingness to meet the interests or needs" - not of the citizens, but - of the mob association. So the question arises: are PD and PdL the same thing? SANTANGELO (M5S). No! PUGLIA (M5S). No. PD is worse than PdL. [[Applause and laughter from the M5S Group.]] I wondered what pushed...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u183	Senator Puglia, the amendment you are presenting, please. Your opinions on the other parties, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u184	I'll call you back, please. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, Mr. President. Amendment 1.42 says just a few things that remind me of that phrase that prompted Mr Di Battista to make an observation. What was that? Hypocrisy, supporting a part, acting, pretending, simulating virtues, good feelings, good qualities, to earn people's sympathy and favors, but deceiving them. There will be no benefit to you, Mr President, in the words used to convince your conscience and that of your colleagues, because, although the damage in your heart will last only for the few seconds necessary to press that cursed button, history will condemn you. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , because they will continue serenely to delinquer politicians who bargain with the mafia exchanging mutual favors, since... Mr Tomaselli (PD). Reciprocate! PUGLIA (M5S). Of course, of course, it's the language that sometimes goes too fast, because it really makes you angry. Reciprocate, of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, please talk to me. PUGLIA (M5S). I'm sorry, Mr. President, because they were... president. It was a dialogue. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, all right. Then why? Why, since it will not be punishable who, even if clearly and shamelessly, has given their willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the mob association? In fact, it is sufficient that there is not enough evidence to prove the payment in money (just the bribe given to black, and in place), the promise in money (just don't write it on paper) or other utility (just make sure that this utility is given to a third party and not to themselves). The work we had done together here in the Senate was turned upside down in the House, where - it should be remembered - the PD has a majority. We had once and forever put an end to this political-mafia electoral exchange. We also punished those who satisfy the interests and needs of the mafias. Why did you suddenly change your mind? Why? Who called you, Totò Riina? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u185	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u186	PUGLIA (M5S). Excuse me, President. Is it not equally understood as an electoral exchange that even the mere fact of accepting to receive votes by declaring to the Mafia that it is willing to meet its interests and needs? No, not for you. We do. Yes! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Because meeting the interests and needs of the Mafia, Mr President, means strengthening it, it means indirectly giving it economic power or other utility.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u187	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u188	PUGLIA (M5S). But - say you - in the end the politician does not receive this money and this other utility, so it is not punishable; it is not political-mafia electoral exchange this. Things are crazy, ma'am. Here we must agree on one thing: to establish, at this point, what is good and what is evil; what is white and what is black. These are serious actions. I repeat: serious! It's about making a deal with that fucking mountain that's the mob! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u189	Please use a proper language, even if it's about the mob.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u190	Conclude, Senator Puglia. I begged her to finish. PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President, I'm on the last line. I would like to recall the words of Peppino Impastato, a great journalist killed by the Mafia: it is a matter of becoming regular tasters of that mountain of which before (I do not pronounce it)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good boy. PUGLIA (M5S). And eating of that food makes you dry, blind and deaf to the lamentations of your conscience. "Listening and obeying it means, in fact, deciding in the face of what is perceived as good or evil. And on this decision the goodness or wickedness of our actions is played. Thank you, Pope Francis, these are your words. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us not make this rule go as it is, because it is a water gun against the mafia's fire. It's like we want to rip a shield, the crusader maybe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). I'll finish. It is a toothpick; it is like cutting a sea of slime with a teaspoon, among other things pierced. Please, we have an opportunity: not to throw the fight against political-mafia electoral exchange into oblivion. At this moment we are going to give a rule that only serves to stop public and media attention to this crime, but we are giving it the final stroke of grace. Come on! Come on! Have courage, for one time only: let us think that the 5 Star Movement is not necessary because the right things can do them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Have the courage to finish, please. [[Applause from the PD Group]] PUGLIA (M5S). Let us think that the 5 Star Movement may not be necessary because things can do them themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I didn't explain myself. PUGLIA (M5S). Come on! Show history a true new face, at least for our files, that of honesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u193	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. The Conference of Group Leaders this afternoon, at which I was present, decided unanimously (not even in the Chamber) that tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., we would start with explanations of vote and vote. It seems to me that this timetable cannot be maintained, given the course of this afternoon's sitting, in which we have been allowed to speak, to tens and dozens, in order to explain the amendments to Article 1 of the measure. This makes it impossible for the programme approved by the Conference of Leaders to be implemented tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. If that is the case, unless you interpret reality correctly, I believe that a new Conference of Leaders should be convened because we must take note of what happened this afternoon. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo]] We must adopt a new timetable, because we cannot put at risk the remaining work of the next two days to - I must say - a truly wasted afternoon to listen to unnecessary issues. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo. Comments from the M5S Group. Some Senators of the M5S Group put out sheets with the words: "Rialzate le peni #offolamafiaallostate."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u196	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not attend today's Conference of Leaders: [[Brusio]] President, if you allow the senators to speak, thank you... AIROLA (M5S). (Addressed to Senator Zanda.) Sooner or later you'll stand in the opposition! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u197	Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u198	I gave Senator Romani the floor. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to me that this afternoon - as Senator Zanda said just now - a certain path had been decided and that the sitting had been planned in a certain way. Mr President, I appeal to you because the Rules of Procedure must be respected. The deadline was not peremptory in the sense that all 22 amendments tabled by 8.20 p.m. this evening were to be voted on, but there was an understanding that tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., the sitting would begin with explanations of vote. Mr President, you are always very precise and rigorous in the application of the Rules of Procedure. I would also ask you to respect the decisions taken by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. Senator Zanda even asks that another group leader be summoned tomorrow to decide what to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can call her right now. If you agree, we'll do it now. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). President. - We did not speak on an election campaign afternoon that the Senators of the M5S Group did in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]] It seems to me that the reason was also the presence in the stands of a character (who may have gone away). [[Comments from the M5S Group]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Convicted for murder, too! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). So, the election campaign probably ended a few minutes ago. Dear President, we ask you to keep your decisions; otherwise we can do what we want with the Rules of Procedure in this House!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u199	All right. I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.13 p.m. and resumed at 8.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u200	Colleagues, already at 8.30 p.m., the deadline set for the end of today's work, the decisions taken by the Conference of Leaders will be announced tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u203	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior to carry out his question 3-00437 concerning the scandalous celebration of the funeral of the Nazi criminal Erich Priebke, which took place in Albano on 13 October 2013. Given that in these election days the 5 Star Movement is instrumentally and folklorically accused of fascist attitudes, I would like to remind you that ours was the first parliamentary group to present an act of inspection union on the matter. And since he is an author much discussed during this period, I would like to read a quote from Primo Levi that I dedicate above all to the Group of the Democratic Party and to Senator Zanda who in recent days has addressed to us the compliments that I have previously reminded us that we are fascists. "Every time it has its fascism: you notice its early signs wherever the concentration of power denies the citizen the possibility and the ability to express and implement his will. This is achieved in many ways, not necessarily with the terror of police intimidation, but also by denying or distorting information, by polluting justice, paralyzing the school, spreading in many subtle ways the nostalgia for a world in which order reigned, and in which the security of the privileged few rested on forced labor and the forced silence of the many. This is Primo Levi: I dedicate this reading to all my colleagues in the PD, in particular to the leader Zanda, and to all the unwitting fascists in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u204	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-230.ana.u205	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 16 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.35 p.m.
