ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first step will be the questioning 2-00110 on the allocation of the role of insurance experts to CONSAP. I call Senator Gambaro to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u4	Madam President, Madam Representative of the Government, Question No 110 concerns the figure of the insurance expert, a guarantee for fair compensation to protect everyone and central in this area for those who have the misfortune of having an accident. Article 13, paragraph 35, of Decree-Law No 95 of 6 July 2012, converted, with amendments, by Law No 135 of 7 August 2012, transferred to the concessionary public insurance services Spa (CONSAP), the holding of the role of insurance experts referred to in Articles 157 et seq. of Legislative Decree No 209, 7 September 2005, and any other competence in this matter. Almost a year after the transfer, there is still no provision allowing that body to take decisions that are binding in the legal order as regards the matter referred to in Title X, Chapter VI, of the aforementioned legislative decree, as well as related regulations and articles, It is asked to know whether the Minister of Economic Development does not want to give a greater boost to the activities of revision and updating, especially regulatory, transferred to CONSAP and if he does not intend to publish with ministerial decree the deliberations of CONSAP concerning the role of insurance experts, in order to better and quickly enhance the professionalism of a category particularly useful for the fight against insurance fraud and the consequent positive effect on the costs of civil liability for cars that weigh on the shoulders of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u5	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the questioner, Senator Gambaro, after recalling that Article 13 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 transferred from 1 January 2013 to CONSAP The maintenance of the role of insurance experts, already established at ISVAP, and any other competence in this field, asks to know whether the Ministry of Economic Development intends to give impetus to the regulatory review of the activities transferred to CONSAP, as well as whether it intends to publish by ministerial decree the deliberations of the same concessionary relative to the role in question, in order to maximize the professionalism of the category of insurance experts. First of all, it should be recalled that, even as a result of the transfer of the role held at CONSAP, the Ministry of Economic Development is neither expressly nor implicitly reallocated to the Ministry of Economic Development supervisory, regulatory, promotion or control powers in insurance matters with regard to the market segment represented by insurance experts. Even in the light of the rules laid down by Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 it is not considered that the MISE can be assigned supervisory and control functions on CONSAP's activities other than those assigned ex lege in the field of insurance, with reference to the supervision of the management activities of the Guarantee Fund for road and hunting victims established at CONSAP. Precisely in implementation of the aforementioned decree, the Ministry of Economic Development is competent exclusively to identify, after consultation of the IVASS, the share of contributions provided for by law to cover the costs for the maintenance of the expert register (equal to 100 percent of the contribution provided for by law, as established by ministerial decree of 29 July 2013), as well as the share of contributions to be allocated to the functions, although transited into CONSAP, and related to the information center provided by articles 154 et seq. of the Code. Moreover, with regard to the functions and powers of supervision and supervision of the insurance sector in the broad sense and as already indicated, the law assigns to the MISE the sole supervision on the management at CONSAP of the Guarantee Fund for road and hunting victims. However, in the above circumstances and in the absence of a specific role of propulsive or ministerial control, it is not excluded that the concessionaire may itself review the above-mentioned rules, including those in the present case. Such interventions in any case can also be analyzed, for reasons of opportunity and continuity of functions, in comparison with the supervisory institution and the Ministry, in order to ensure the most effective achievement of the objectives of cost reduction and the most efficient management of insurance supervision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u9	GAMBARO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General and I am pleased with the answer given to my questioning. We will use your advice to improve the conditions of an important figure in the field of insurance and road accidents such as the technical expert.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u10	The following are questions 3-00845, 3-00897 and 3-00996 (already 4-00260) on the reclamation of the site of national interest in Bussi (Pescara). The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u11	Madam President, the questions you have raised, which relate to the same subject, will be answered in one way or another. As is well known, the environmental problems of the site of Bussi sul Tirino, in the province of Pescara, have taken on national importance since 2006, when it was appointed the delegated commissioner for the realization of the urgent interventions necessary for the overcoming of the socio-economic and environmental emergency situation determined in that area and in the river auction of the basin of the Aterno river. In relation to the established seriousness of the situation, the area in question was included in the site of national interest (SIN) of Bussi sul Tirino, perimeterd by Ministerial Decree of 29 May 2008. The primary source of contamination is identified with the production area ex Montedison/Ausimont (now Solvay) and the areas of the Tre Monti landfill, as well as with an area north of about 5 and a half hectares, where large quantities of waste have been unlawfully disposed of. In these areas, therefore, the action of the Ministry and the Commissioner responsible has been concentrated, with measures and interventions to protect health and the environment. After providing the necessary security measures, the Commissioner delegated has started the characterisation activities, whose completion, originally scheduled for 28 February 2014, suffered a short postponement caused by the need to acquire the necessary permissions from the Public Prosecutor of Pescara, who in the meantime had placed the area under seizure. Compared to the related criminal proceedings n. 12/06 R.G.N.R., due to soil pollution, subsoil and groundwater, caused by the activities carried out by the Montedison group, this Ministry has been formed civil part for the compensation of environmental damage, appointment, for the complete assessment of damages, some technical consultants, who will provide support to the State's Notice in the subsequent procedural phases. At the same time, Edison was advised to remove all waste deposited uncontrolledly in the landfills built in Tre Monti, to fully restore the status of the sites and to proceed to the reclamation of the environmental matrix, that the result of the complete removal of the waste should be contaminated. This measure was challenged before the TAR of Pescara which, at the outcome of the public hearing of 17 April last, by judgment No 204 of 2014, gave reason to the administration. With regard to financial resources, this Ministry has allocated for the reclamation of this site the sum of 3 million euros, already transferred to the Abruzzo Region that, for its part, has allocated 100,000. In particular, the program agreement concerning the reclamation of the site of national interest (SIN) of Bussi sul Tirino was signed on 28 February 2011 between this Ministry and the local and territorial authorities concerned. With regard to reindustrialization, the resources originally allocated, amounting to 50 million euros, even if partially reduced by the successive laws of stability, are already transferred in the availability of the commissioner delegate. Without prejudice to the above, to date this Ministry is engaged, on the one hand in the verification of the effectiveness and efficiency of the preventive measures taken and in the identification of the best techniques and actions useful in order to arrive to the reclamation or the safety operational of the contaminated areas (finalized also to the reindustrialization) and, on the other hand, has started the procedures for the recovery of the environmental damage, as already reported. With regard to the Ministry of Health, it has been reported that the Higher Institute of Health is deepening the issue of the risks to human health resulting from the phenomenon of contamination in the territories in question together with technicians and experts of the Region, for the purpose of a possible protocol of study. It has also been specified that the Institute itself, on behalf of the State's General Vetting, has carried out special technical expertise in the context of the criminal proceedings incardinated at the Court of Assizes of Chieti, concerning the assessment of the toxicological risks associated with the exposure of the population to pollutants and the risk analysis related to the contamination of drinking water.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u14	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, the number of questions we have received on this subject shows the importance of the subject, which draws the attention of all political forces and of all citizens and which is cross-cutting to businesses and associations. We took responsibility for bringing these requests to this place, where, moreover, questions had already been tabled in the past - particularly the well-structured question of Senators Casson, Legnini and others - to which no reply has ever been given. So I appreciate and thank the government for coming here to report and to speak. I am partially satisfied, because I appreciate the Government's willingness to come and confront - I repeat - and I also appreciate some of the answers that have been given to me and the other colleagues who have submitted the question, but some outstanding points remain, which are fundamental. On the one hand, there is a criminal procedure, which was mentioned earlier and which is basically always giving reason to the administrations of the state that have formed themselves in court and to the associations that over time and several times had lodged the complaints. However, and this is what the citizens then catch, there are still these enormous polluting wastes, placed under a cloth near inhabited sites, close to people, close to citizens, and this situation has been going on for years. Although, therefore, I appreciate the fact that we finally give an answer to the questions and appreciate many acts, such as the constitution part civil and distrusts it, I believe that we need an even more energetic intervention, with the creation of a task force that involves the Region, the Ministry, the Forces of order, because the funds that were mentioned are not yet used. The waste is there, under a cloth: it is an endless expanse, it is an international scandal. Moreover, as has rightly been said, the risk of contamination of the waters affecting half of the population of Abruzzo is an imminent risk, and it has also been denounced. The assurances that have been received - you know how it works in these circumstances - have not been enough, so there is also a social alarm. I therefore thank and appreciate some of the actions that the Government, through the ministries, has taken, but I ask for a greater determination than this, which is a national, if not international issue, and which deserves to be treated as an emergency, which has lasted for many years. Perhaps it is time, also following the pronouncements of the TAR and the court of Chieti, to compose a framework for intervention: those waste from there must be removed, because they are causing pollution of the aquifers of all the territory of gigantic size, and this frankly I believe that we cannot afford it. We are also talking about a territory inserted in an area of seismic crater, at least in part, and adjacent to the national parks of Abruzzo, so this event also causes a clouding of the image of Abruzzo as a land of parks and uncontaminated nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u17	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General because his report shows at least that the problem is before the Ministry. From the answers he has given us, in fact, we can see that there may be, on the part of the Government, the intention to keep the attention on this great problem. We've been talking about the polluted area of the chemical compound in Bussi for years. After these last investigations carried out by the Public Prosecutor, there has emerged a very strong criminal responsibility for those who perpetrated this ecological misdemeanor that has subjected to a serious risk the health of the citizens of a very vast territory, because the chemical pole is located in the area of Bussi sul Tirino but has a vast area. We who, together with local administrators, are representatives of those territories every day collect requests from citizens who urge to clean up this area. Since this is a very large territory, according to an estimate carried out by experts, it would take at least EUR 600 million to first protect the health of the inhabitants and to ensure that this site is reindustrialised. In a moment of crisis so deep and heavy for our country, in fact, there is also a great problem of employment and a intervention of reindustrialization would also allow to create jobs. We have made extraordinary assemblies and municipal councils, in which we have accepted the demands of the administrators and the people themselves. I believe that, beyond the process that the judiciary is following, it is very important that the Government is absolutely committed to starting to clean up, as has been done in other parts of our country, to give a real signal. As Bussi turns out to be a municipality of the crater of the earthquake of 2009, the Berlusconi government, then, with a decree-law, made available 50 million euros. You, Madam Undersecretary, rightly said that these resources were probably committed, but we would like to start seeing the start of the reclamation operation. Then, of course, having been identified as a national problem, we must continue to follow it. The government must commit itself at this time, because this is a social problem on the employment front, but also a problem for the safety and health of citizens. We will therefore follow very carefully the steps that the Government will take from this point of view, also to have the guarantee of the resources to be made available. I fear, in fact, that of those 50 million - I am afraid to control - there is almost nothing left. I do not say to commit a figure of 600 million, but we must begin to consider the problem and put it in our country's budget, because it is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u20	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I too would like to thank you for the answer you gave to the question that was put these days last year. According to what my colleague said, we must be happy that a response has been given after at least one year. The problem with Bussi is really serious. I believe that this is a problem that many have underestimated, not only by those who started industrialization there and, therefore, created pollution problems, but also by those who managed at regional and local level. In any case, this problem has not been dealt with in advance. From what you have said, in fact, there has been a damage to health: on this issue I appreciated that, in addition to giving an answer on the current situation of Bussi, you, Madam Undersecretary, have also paid attention to the damage to health that has been suffered. I hope that Bussi will be considered as a site of national interest - what it is - and that adequate funds will therefore be allocated to restore safety to the people living in those places. The site of Bussi, in fact, is located in a particular location, in the Gorges of Peoples, where all the waters of Abruzzo are collected. Moreover, there are still possible contaminations for the waters that cross these territories, being present sites such as, for example, the Tre Monti landfill that still present a pollution. On the contrary, the real Bussi area, that of the high Tirino is absolutely uncontaminated. This situation has also damaged the local economy. In that area, in fact, there are huge tubs - the largest in Europe - of trout breeding (and, in particular, of a specific trout) and there is a beautiful site of tourist and landscape interest, which cannot be damaged. Therefore, a serious intervention must be made on the polluted area that concerns the lower part of Bussi, therefore the lower Tirino, for which there are also the mappings of the underground substances. In order to achieve a total clean-up, the estimated costs are very high, as ISPRA has also said, because we are talking about 8 billion. However, we can begin to intervene - if we want to do so - to move the heavy metals located in that area before the leachate develops. So far there is not, but since the materials have been covered with a cloth, the danger exists. Before this dramatic situation of further damage occurs, which would affect most of the waters of Abruzzo, as I explained before I think we can intervene quickly to move heavy metals - I repeat - if we want to do so, identifying them and removing them from that site. It is important that you take an interest in securing the watercourses that flow in that area. I thank the government representative for his response and hope that there will be timely interventions and good news about funding.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-00528 about a tragic event that took place in a Chinese-owned company in the industrial district of Prato. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to explain the question put by Senator Fedeli concerning the measures which, following the fire which broke out on 1 December in Prato in a packaging laboratory that caused the death of seven Chinese citizens, the Government intends to take in order to combat the painful scourge of undeclared and undeclared work. In this regard, I would first like to point out that the Supervisory Programming Document, prepared annually by the Ministry that I represent, contains guidelines for 2014 specifically aimed at intensifying controls aimed at the repression of the phenomenon of illegal and irregular work of companies managed by Chinese citizens in the field of manufacturing, trade and public exercises. During the last few years, in fact, specific initiatives have been launched throughout the national territory to combat the phenomenon in question, some of which have concerned the manufacturing district of Prato. In this regard, I would like to point out that in support of these initiatives, the Ministry I represent has already set up, since 2012, a special fund for the payment of Chinese-language interpreters in favour of the Prato Regional Labour Directorate (DTL). With specific reference to the supervisory activity, the inspection staff operating at the DTL in Prato in the course of the year 2013 has verified altogether 968 companies and arrogated 949 maxisanzioni for black work (corresponding to 23.66 percent of the maxisanzioni arrogated altogether in the Tuscany). In the industry sector, in particular, 292 companies have been inspected and 745 maxisantions for black work have been imposed (equivalent to 64 percent of the sanctions imposed, in the specific sector, in the entire Tuscany Region). The results of the supervisory activity related to the first quarter of the year 2014 are broadly in line with those of the year 2013, with regard to the number of companies inspected by the DTL of Prato, and equal to 233 (about 10 percent of the regional data). On the other hand, the maxisans for black labour were 121 (corresponding to about 23 percent of those imposed in the whole of Tuscany). In particular, with regard to the industry sector, 82 companies have been inspected and 102 maxisantions for undeclared work have been imposed, equivalent to 53% of the sanctions imposed, in the specific sector, throughout Tuscany. Moreover, in confirmation of the constant commitment made in contrast to the phenomenon of irregular and submerged work, I note that in the course of 2013 the territorial office of the work of Prato, in conjunction with the Nucleus inspectorate of the job (NIL) and the group Carabinieri for the protection of the work of Rome, has participated in targeted initiatives of supervision in the manufacturing district of the Province, within the framework of the "Patto per Prato sicura 2013" 2013. This operation, which renewed the similar commitments already signed in 2007 and 2010, allowed to activate a synergistic action among all institutional actors present in the territory (State Police, Carabinieri, Finance Guard, Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, INPS, INAIL, ASL, ARPAT, Municipal Police, Revenue Agency, Provincial Police, Forestry Corps of the State, Fire Department), to be implemented through a weekly programming of targeted interventions, within an operating table that meets under the coordination of the Prato police station. I would also like to point out that - following the fire which broke out last December 1st in a packaging laboratory, which caused the death of seven Chinese citizens - the Directorate-General for Inspection of the Ministry has prepared an extraordinary programme to combat undeclared work and the implications associated with it in terms of health and safety protection in the workplace. In this sense, 11 territorial labour offices have been identified - corresponding to those areas characterized by a greater incidence of the phenomenon in recent years - with the task of carrying out a careful intelligence operation and analysis of the specific characteristics of the economic and productive fabric of the territory of competence. In particular, these territorial structures have been called upon to carry out - in accordance with the so-called short access procedures - a minimum number of 11,000 controls specifically aimed at verifying the employment of workers in blackmail. Following the tragic event of 1 December 2013, within the framework of the definition of the annual objectives of the action in view of the competence of the territorial structures of the work contained in the Programming Document for the supervisory activity for the year 2014, the competent office of the Ministry, which I represent, has foreseen the extension to the entire national territory of the extraordinary initiative of contrast to the black work started in December last year, providing for the execution of at least 50,000 short accesses (including the 11,000 initials) by the inspection staff of all the territorial offices of the job. I would also point out that, in view of the close correlation between the employment of workers in black and illegal health and safety, these inspections will be aimed at identifying the most serious violations of the psychophysical protection of workers, with the involvement, where possible, of local health companies for the joint access to the companies concerned. In order to allow the progressive updating and analysis of the acquired data, it has also been foreseen to carry out a constant monitoring of the findings of the extraordinary supervisory activity. I would also like to remind you that the Supervisory Plan - adopted by the INPS with determination last 14 April - has identified in the manufacturing sector the area of intervention most at risk for the Tuscany Region, as it is characterized by a high concentration of companies managed by Chinese entrepreneurship, with particularly significant rates of contributory irregularities. Lastly, I would like to point out that in the framework of the 2013 "Patto per Prato sicurezza," on December 12th, the Minister of the Interior presided over the "National Table for Prato" aimed at developing, in synergy with the elective institutions of Tuscany, with the individual Ministries and with the leaders of the Forces of the Order, a plan of interventions to prevent and contrast the phenomena of illegality related to foreign entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u25	GATTI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Bobba for his reply. Mr Undersecretary, we tabled this question on 3 December 2013 because the incident to which we refer occurred on Sunday 1 December. Unfortunately, on 18 May last, two Sundays ago, there was another fire in a shed in Prato, near the macrolotto. Fortunately there was no death, but there were two intoxicated and most likely there were others who escaped. This is to tell you that Prato confirms, also in this case, the fact that it is the fourth European Chinese city, with a piece of official population, but with almost as many people residing illegally in our territory and living in sheds where you work, sleep, eat, keep children, with bars on the windows, where you sleep in very small loculi, in extremely difficult and very dangerous hygienic conditions. I would also like to point out the situation of great isolation, remembering that these Chinese citizens do not speak Italian and sleep by day and work at night, because the trucks are loaded at night, with the sheds that are usually in precise areas. We have dealt with this phenomenon several times. There is a very precise intervention that was also done by the Tuscany Region. On the occasion of the last incident I spoke about, that occurred on 18 May, Enrico Rossi, president of the Tuscany Region, said: It is a photocopy tragedy that reminds us that, in this area, there is a bubbon to be eradicated, which has two faces: the illegality of the living conditions of the Chinese workers and the rent of the sheds that, even in this case, is attributable to Italian owners. President, the Tuscany Region since December 2013 has activated a very important route and next Friday - on a date that seems studied, but that in reality is not - will present the extraordinary plan of intervention, a three-year, multilingual plan, in which the Region has engaged 10 million euros, that will cover the whole area vast center, that is Prato, Florence, Pistoia and Empoli. This plan provides for a strengthening of controls, which will be fivefold compared to the number of controls envisaged by national assistance levels, and the value will be further doubled in the ASL 4 in Prato. Therefore, with the information that you have given us before, with this launch of the extraordinary plan of intervention, with the protocol of understanding signed between the Tuscany Region, the general prosecutor of the Republic at the court of appeal of Florence, the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Florence, that of Pistoia and that of Prato for the strengthening in the territory of the vast area center of the actions aimed at the vigilance, safety in the workplace, the contrast to the undeclared work and the promotion of policies of integration and support to the situations of difficulty, we have a reasonable expectation of the improvement of the situation. This is also because a number of points are beginning to be clarified. For example, we begin to aim for controls in situations where there is a greater consumption of electricity or in peripheral areas where particular sheds have been built. In short, the areas on which action is to be taken have been identified. We are also beginning to invest in trying to mitigate the social problems, those arising from, for example, preventive and repressive activities (many times these workers remain in trouble), to promote the integration of non-EU citizens, but also to promote the fight against school dispersal. However, Mr. Undersecretary, there is a need for government intervention towards the Chinese Government, because we cannot do interventions only downstream: we must control the absolutely illegal process of importing labour and importing materials, because in the beautiful Prato, that of the great yarns and high signatures, at this moment it is produced using fabrics that come from China of the lowest quality and producing a very low quality production.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u26	The following is the question 3-00811 on the progressive reduction of the teaching of philosophy in high schools and universities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u27	Madam President, honourable questioning senators refer to experimental methodological and didactic innovation projects, with four-year scans, which will be implemented, under the authorisation of the Ministry, in certain second-degree secondary schools for the school year 2014-2015. In this respect, they require assurances that such projects do not result in a possible reduction in the teaching time of philosophy. In this connection, I would point out that the state educational institutions which will experience these projects are in number of six and that the operation of only one first experimental class has been authorised for each of them. I would point out that the approved study courses will in any case have to ensure, also through the use of educational and organizational flexibility allowed by school autonomy, the teaching of all the disciplines provided for in the study plans, in order to ensure that pupils achieve the specific learning objectives and the competences foreseen for the fifth year of the secondary schools and technical institutes, by the end of the fourth year, according to the project defined by the individual schools. In fact, innovation projects do not consist of the mere cutting of a school year, but rather of a remodulation of the entire course of studies, which involves a greater hourly load in the two biennials in which the projects are articulated, the results of which will be constantly monitored by the scientific committees specially set up, in order to assess the results achieved. As far as the university sector is concerned, I would remind you that universities have full autonomy in the activation of teachings within the scientific-disciplinary fields of study courses. However, I would like to point out that it is not the Ministry's intention to reduce the weight of humanistic culture in favour of the growth of scientific culture, in the knowledge that both are fundamental to the complete cultural development of students.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u30	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr D'Onghia. We are satisfied with what you have said, in particular with regard to one point, namely that the four-year trials of higher secondary education institutions provide for a total remodulation of the hourly load in the two biennials, and not a mere cut, as it were, of the last year. I want to think that this means that, even between the current two-year period and the current three-year period, there is a remodulation, because if the latter were to take place, as is precisely the risk indicated by several parties, with a reformulation of the hourly loads within the current two-year period and the current three-year period, the problem would well arise again. The point is that, while of course the autonomy of Italian institutes and universities, this experimentation is taking place - as indicated in the question - at the same time as the suppression of the teaching of theoretical philosophy, in particular in some university courses of the faculties of education sciences and pedagogy. This poses the risk that, within our secondary and university education system, action will be taken to strengthen, even positive, scientific culture. It is true that, despite the excellence that our country has produced in the field of scientific culture, perhaps there is a delay, an underestimation of centrality, of the importance of scientific and technological culture, also with respect to the international context in which we move, but it is equally true that the consolidation of scientific culture, if we do not want to be limited to becoming a mere procedural execution of techniques, needs that long look that only a thought - a philosophical thought, a theoretical thought - can give to ensure that science does not resolve in mere procedures and applications of techniques but can be instead indication of choices, identification of perspectives, capacity for relationship, understanding and therefore of design. From this point of view, I am satisfied with the richness of the answer. There remains the concern that, in the remodulation of the programs and the hourly loads of the secondary schools, in particular those few schools in which today is present the teaching of philosophy, on the one hand, and in the redetermination of the articulation of the work plans of the faculties of science of education and pedagogy, on the other, philosophy is sacrificed. From this point of view, I note in a positive way the commitment that the Undersecretary has made here, on behalf of the Government, on the desire to make sure that the scope of this teaching is not reduced within our education and training system, because it would really be a failure compared to that excellence of our thought, our culture, which thanks to its creativity today manages to be internationally competitive even from the scientific, technological and productive point of view; and it succeeds precisely because it has behind that long thought that a strong philosophical, cultural and theoretical tradition has supported in the history of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u31	Following is the question 3-00819 on the territorial organization of special enabling routes, with particular reference to Sardinia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u32	Madam President, as the honourable interrogating senators have pointed out, the decree of Director-General No 58 of 2013 activated the procedures of the special enabling pathways (PAS), introduced by Ministerial Decree No 81 of 2013 in order to enhance the professionalism achieved by the non-qualified teachers in possession of certain service requirements. Interrogations represent the situation in which several aspirants from the Region of Sardinia have come to find themselves and require the adoption of equitative measures suitable to ensure a regular participation in the routes. In this regard, I inform you that the Administration has activated to allow the participation of the widest possible audience in the courses, after having found some situations in which it was not possible to activate the PAS within some Regions. In fact, it has occurred that certain universities, due to technical and organizational difficulties and also due to the presence of an excessive number or, more often, small applicants for the qualification for some competition classes, have been unable to start courses. The problem has been solved at a general level through the conclusion of a special convention, which took place on 24 April 2014, between the Ministry and the Centre for the training and professional development of secondary school teachers of the University of Roma Tre, following which the university has activated special enabling courses in online mode. The relative notice for registration to the courses was issued by decree of the Rector on May 7, 2014. Candidates from the entire national territory, and therefore also from Sardinia, may apply for competition classes not activated by the universities of the region of origin.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u35	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for giving a clear answer to this question, which is why I am extremely pleased. What was requested by my question was precisely this: that we could start an experimental platform that students could access online.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u36	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u39	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, the Terna assembly rejected the request for the inclusion in the social statute of the so-called good repute clause. Terna is in good company, also having the assemblies of ENI and Finmeccanica rejected the same request. We consider these acts to be very serious. The good repute clause provides for ineligibility and forfeiture for just cause following a conviction, even not final, or a request for referral to court for a number of administrative, fiscal and financial offences. These indications are codified in Annex A to the Ministerial Directive of 24 June 2013, with regard to the adoption of criteria and modalities for the appointment of the members of the administrative bodies and policies for the remuneration of the top management of subsidiaries directly or indirectly by the Ministry. Minister Padoan has formally asked the companies to discuss and decide on the proposal to introduce into the social statute a special clause on the requirements of good repute and related causes of ineligibility and forfeiture of the members of the board of directors, receiving repeated denials. In the resolution approved by the 10th Permanent Commission of the Senate at its meeting on 8 April 2014, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly participated by the State, with particular reference to the areas of interest of the Commission, the Government undertakes, inter alia, to respect in the definition of the lists the requirements of good repute in addition to those of professionalism referred to in point (a), indicated in the motion on nominations approved on 19 June 2013 by the Senate. We have already asked with a question whether the Minister in address intends, and in what terms, to propose the introduction into the social statute of ENI SpA and Finmeccanica SpA, as well as of all participating companies listed on the stock exchange, in which it has the stock control in fact, of a special clause on the requirements of good repute and related causes of ineligibility and decadence of the members of the Board of Directors and whether it intends to adopt a formal communication of dissent from the decisions taken by the assemblies of ENI SpA and Finmeccanica SpA regarding the indications to introduce in the statutes a special clause on the requirements of good repute and related causes of ineligibility and decadence of the members of the Board of Directors. In the 10th Commission we will promote the collection of signatures to ensure that the Commission's findings are formally communicated to the President of the Senate for submission to the Assembly. We call for the Minister urgently to report back to the House on what has happened at the meetings of Terna, ENI and Finmeccanica.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-252.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.56 p.m.
