ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 16 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u4	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Comments from the PD Group]] . THE COURT (PD). President, I have not been able to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not think it was decisive for the outcome of the verification. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u6	Colleagues, the session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u9	PETROCELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 17.26).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u13	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for bill No 1450: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 16 of 6 March 2014 on urgent provisions in the field of local finance, as well as measures to ensure the functionality of the services carried out in school institutions, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 16 April the 1st Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on the opinion in question. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator De Monte, if you're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u14	Madam President, I give up the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u15	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u18	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by recalling the words of one of the House's colleagues on this subject: 'another tear about our Constitution'. From the first day we strongly denounced the use and abuse of the decree of urgency, adopted as a coercive instrument by the Government in office against a overwhelming majority (its majority) and remissive. Or perhaps it is better to say to a majority that often does not agree with the initiatives of the Government that should represent it and, even more so, against the oppositions. But with this decree I believe we have exceeded every limit, repeating measures already presented to the Chambers before. The measures described in the decree-law follow, in substance, those of the previous decrees (No 151 of 2013 and No 126 of 2013), both not converted by the Chambers. We would like to reiterate firmly that the Constitutional Court has already expressed itself clearly, unequivocally and clearly in 1996 on the constitutional illegitimacy of the repetition of decree-laws not converted by the Chambers, whatever the reason why they were not converted. Despite this, once again we are faced with what we might call a repeated repetition, or more simply a repetition of the square, the cube. This umpteenth backdrop to constitutional dictates is more than enough to render inapplicable to the text under consideration the presuppositions that Article 77 of the Constitution lays at the base of the legislative power of the Government (which should be limited, extraordinary and temporary) not being able to define an event "unpredictable" or "extraordinary"... the failure of the Chambers to convert to law in the prescribed times a decree of the Government. For those who read the shorthand report and are unfamiliar with legislative instruments, I lose thirty seconds to explain that the decree-law has immediate effects from its publication and must be converted within sixty days, penalty the loss of effectiveness of all its effects since the day of issue. Imagine a government that wants to impose on the Chambers something that goes against the will of the majority of parliamentarians who - I remember - represent the democratically elected body. Imagine a government issuing decrees one after the other of the same content, nourishing its effects from time to time for sixty days and effectively preventing the Chambers from exercising legislative power. I believe this is the technical proof of a perverse and dangerous mechanism. In our opinion, the practice of which this decree is nothing more than a symbol is inexorably removing the brake that eighteen years ago the Constitutional Court has placed - albeit lately - a dangerous practice adopted by governments to put into crisis the balance between legislative and executive function. Even your President of the Republic has repeatedly spoken out against the abuse of the decree of urgency and the unevenness of the decrees, as well as the failure to respect the decisions on the substance taken by the Constitutional Court in several judgments. Not only does the possibility of recovering some effects of the decrees-laws that have lapsed by recourse to further decree-laws appear incorrect (it is necessary to leave to the Chambers the task of regulating with ordinary law the legal relations arising on the basis of non-converted decrees, as provided for in the last paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution; yes, always that which you wish to subvert), but certainly the constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency do not exist in order to stabilize, in block and indistinguishably, all the generic provisions cited in the first article of the provision in question. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u19	Colleagues, please reduce the buzz, because Senator Crimes has difficulty in carrying out his speech and anyone who wants to listen to him is not able to understand what he is saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u20	CRIMI (M5S). A lighter buzz, colleagues. In the emergency measure under consideration, there are no requirements of necessity and urgency for various rules contained in it, nor the extraordinary occurrence referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, which alone justify the adoption, by the Government and under its responsibility, of provisional measures by force of law. The presence of provisions of a purely ordinamental nature - which explain their effects over a wide period of time - increases, on the contrary, the vices of the decree in relation to the requirements provided for in Article 77 and projects the matter outside the legitimate scope of an emergency intervention. Moreover, the unevenness is evident at the moment when the decree proposes and without prejudice to the provisions contained in two other well distinct decrees and renders the text inconsistent with the provisions of the judgment of the Consulta n. 22 of 2012 and article 15, paragraph 3, of the law 23 August 1988, n. 400, which the same Government prepares to constitutionalize, while it repeatedly violates it. But it is already in the title of the decree that it is evident the sense of this unevenness, where one has tried to associate the matter of local finance with that of the functionality of the services carried out in the educational institutions. A prowess in perfect harmony with the twisted tradition of recent years, which considers it sufficient to introduce in the title all the subjects treated to make the text seem homogeneous. But the required homogeneity is not related to the title, but to the subjects covered. I wish the text was at least homogeneous to the title, maybe! We would have only two subjects dealt with in the same decree, in which we instead have inside: TARI, TASI, IMU, fund ISPE, services of online advertising (web tax), companies controlled by local government, facilitated definition of the sums entered in role, rebalancing of the budget of the agencies in failure, fund devaluation credits, supplementary collective bargaining, social useful workers, loans of the local authorities, solidarity fund municipal, experimental fund of rebalancing, relationships of end of mandate of the municipalities and the Provinces, financing of the passage of some municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region, fund of development of the smaller islands, Rome Capital, railway transport in the Regions to Special Statute and in Campania, pact of internal stability in the City of Venice, services of cleaning and auxiliary in the schools, monitoring of the seismic risk, put in safety, restructuring and extraordinary maintenance of the school buildings, fund for the national emergencies: and who has more put them. I wonder what else we'll add at this stage. Article 77 cannot be invoked for such a variety of subjects. The presuppositions of necessity, urgency and extraordinaryness, if positively found, are spoiled by a frequency of recurrence such as to alter the necessarily extraordinary and provisional nature of the decree-law. There is no extraordinary and urgent need for certain corrective rules of the Stability Act for 2014, which should be understood as the only urgency to remedy errors that the same majority made and imposed in that forum or of the derogation provisions on the budget. The trend is to derogate from or render null and void the current rules on accounting controls with the adoption of extensions and extensions, with specific ad hoc provisions to encourage, from time to time, certain local authorities, not to mention the selective treatment for the Municipality of Rome. Then there are obvious unreasonableities which cannot be said to be fulfilled the obligations imposed by Article 77 of the Constitution, but here I do not extend because I would enter into the substance of the provision. What I would like to point out - and I shall conclude, Madam President - is that part of the rules in question could and should have been placed in an ordinary draft law. In the decree we find the correction of political errors, wrong choices that we try to remedy. If you are incapable of making politically and materially sustainable choices in the long term, it is simple: don't make them! But no, you keep persevering, but it is understandable: you have to count on the lobbies that line up your government. The critical profiles and defects of unconstitutionality of the emergency measure under consideration place the new Government in line with the previous one: there is no variation. Your vote will be a favorable one, we know, and we don't expect anything different, a raise your head. Imagine, though, what would happen if - as some would expect - there were only one House to legislate, with an overwhelming majority daughter of the shift leader, head of government. Imagine how Parliament's role would be compressed. At this point, if necessary, let us abolish Parliament completely and put ourselves in the hands of one man! It is on this dangerous, dangerous road that you are taking us. Didn't history teach you anything? Stop while you're in time. Stop! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u21	We shall now proceed to the vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.37 p.m. and resumed at 5.46 p.m.) Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the favorable opinion of the 1st Permanent Commission, pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, regarding the existence of the conditions required by article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements established by the legislation in force, with regard to the decree-law 6 March 2014, n. 16. Senators who intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission, and thus acknowledge the existence of the conditions and requirements, will have to vote yes. Senators who do not intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission will have to vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u22	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-234.ana.u23	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 23 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.47 p.m.
