ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins. I suspend the sitting until 9.50 a.m., hoping to see a government representative, who goes to repress my absence. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 9.51 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u10	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry, but since our Parent Company has been suspended and is not in the Chamber today, I find myself in a moment in charge of it. I hope you will allow me, given that it is impossible for our Parent Company to be here. I'd like to ask you something nicely. Yesterday, at the end of the sitting, there were unfortunate events here, immediately outside the Chamber, involving one of our senators and two other senators from other political forces. Looks like there was a little struggle where our senator was slapped and kicked. I would ask you to shed some light on what has happened, to ascertain the responsibilities and, if necessary, to proceed with the actions provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u11	Thank you, Senator Montevecchi, for the news, which until now was absolutely unknown to me. We'll arrange for the proper investigation of the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00284 by Senator Uras and other senators, 1-00329 by Senator Crosio and other senators, 1-00337 by Senator Serra and other senators, 1-00340 (text 2) by Senator Floris and other senators, and 1-00342 by Senator Lai and other senators, on the crisis in Meridiana and on the territorial continuity of Sardinia. I call Senator Uras to explain motion No 284.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u13	Mr President, I have an obligation, as we are dealing with this issue in this House, I would say at last. I must remind you that an interrogation has been presented that had as its object the question of territorial continuity, and therefore an efficient link from and to Sardinia to the signature of more than forty senators of all the groups and all the political formations present in the Senate. This questioning, presented with an urgent nature, provided, by Senate Rules, the obligation for the Minister to come and report within fifteen days on the subjects covered by it. We arrive a long time later; that interpellation remains elusive and we face the same theme with the motions presented (at least mine) on June 19, then several months ago, before the Meridian dispute (next, as evolution, to the dispute on Alitalia-CAI) exploded in all its drama. I ask a little attention on this because, as yesterday, we are talking about workers living a condition of absolute uncertainty with respect to the future, engaged also, in a very peaceful way, in a battle that in any case assumes forms of extreme struggle: there are those who have been above the towers for days to draw the attention of the institutions and the government, but also of the national entrepreneurial system - and not only - to face the problems of the work, the production and the better organization of the services, for the benefit of the citizens and for the economic development of the entire European community. These issues cannot be resolved and confined to the wishes of the workers directly concerned; they concern the whole of the Government, society and the economy, and for this reason they call for acts of responsibility also on the part of the Commission, whose work unfortunately - I say - also on this occasion does not seem totally adequate. Mr President, air transport - although data are a shrinking reality in recent months, at least as far as passenger air traffic at Italian airports is concerned - has had a huge development in this five-year period of more than 10%. We are therefore talking about economic sectors and services which are clearly developing and which have made profits. Despite everything, however, the system is in crisis: the quality of the service, the guarantee of punctuality and the breadth of the service are attacked; employment in the sector is attacked. We express a grave concern, especially for the two main corporate crises, those concerning Alitalia-CAI and Meridiana: if the Alitalia case, moreover, is still in a phase of definition, the Meridiana one is in a particularly acute phase of struggle and difficulty. We believe that these corporate crises could also have a particularly negative impact on the rights to the territorial continuity of Sardinian citizens and businesses. Sardinia is the only real island of this nation, the only true Italian island: I think it is one of the few real great European islands, in the sense that it is deprived of any kind of alternative connection to what requires such a significant distance from the continent. Certainly Sicily also has the characteristics of an island, but in this case the traffic of the ferries and the marine connections are certainly less difficult than those that instead must support Sardinia. For this reason, together with those connections, air links are of absolute importance from the point of view of territorial continuity for Sardinian citizens. Meridiana, which is one of the main air transport companies, which has operated under territorial continuity in Sardinia (and continues to do so), is today affected by a dispute involving about 1,600 workers, considered redundant, and is in a state of almost decisive crisis, with great difficulties in negotiating and managing the consequent situations of air traffic management, with regard to Sardinia, and perspective for workers. The national and regional trade unions Sardinian, Confederal and autonomous, lament the increasing difficulty in the negotiations for the identification of paths of solution that re-launch the company. The same unions insist on the absence, in air transport, of certain rules for Sardinia, on an airport system of confused territorial continuity, which would produce (we have no doubts about this) negative effects also on the individual disputes of the airlines, which would be aggravated, in the case of Meridiana, also by the continuous change of managing directors and industrial plans, and also by operations involving companies whose relations with Meridiana are quite and significantly opaque. While Olbia and Malpensa are fired, there are realities, in Lombardy and Varese, which instead operate hiring on board personnel, from flight attendants to pilots, and strengthen their corporate organization, and these companies seem to be in close connection with Meridiana for the transfer of traffic. Given that this year, in the national air transport, there is a risk of reaching about 14,000 people in the regime of social shock absorbers and, for Meridiana, the Cassaintegrati would have been determined also by the lack of participation of the airline to the race on the territorial continuity on Cagliari; moreover, stated, in particular, that Meridiana seems to yield in these hours and these days, a part of the service, that must render, territorial continuity to other carriers; considering that the same solution of Alitalia has put in difficulty, in Sardinia, several hundreds of workers (because we speak, in that case, of a quantification of structural redundancies pairs to 2,250 workers); all this said, Mr President, we ask the Government to report in a timely way on the whole course of the disputes, reorganization and restructuring of the airlines Alitalia and Meridiana; to define a strategy, in relation to Alitalia and Meridiana, that allows, in the framework of definition of the policies of transport to and to Sardinia of residents and not residents, also to support, compatible with the necessary industrial plans of rescue of the companies, the highest occupational levels. We also call for action to be taken to avoid, or at least reduce, the negative impact on employment in Sardinia (where we are already complaining about unresolved disputes) and to propose to the European Union, in order to obtain possible and necessary preventive approvals, a programme of aid to ensure the application of tariff regimes for an adequate number of short and medium-range air links to and from Sardinia to ensure the free movement of persons and goods, as laid down in the Treaties. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Caleo, De Pin and Pepe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u14	I call Senator Crosio to explain motion 329.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u15	Mr President, on this motion we too want to stress the concern that affects the whole of Parliament, but not only, about this great problem. It is spontaneous to talk about air transport at these times because, about the issue of Alitalia, it would be wondering whether the new President will advise us, when we come down from Milan, to use Alitalia or to take its trains. This is not only a joke because our air transport system has been running out since 2008 (in reality since before but in a particular way since 2008 and the famous 300 million bridge loan made by the then Berlusconi Government) and the policies that have followed have not favoured an organic restructuring - in particular, Alitalia - serious and concrete to respond to the demands of the international market. None of the choices made in recent years have proved punctual and serious and today we pay the consequences. We have always said, I would like to stress this, that if we had pursued a punctual and planned policy, both for the transport of persons and for the transport of goods, establishing, at the basis of everything, that the flights must be programmed where the tickets are detached, it would have been better. On the other hand, we have struggled for years in order to have the famous fifth freedom for Malpensa airport and to give a boost to passenger traffic and freight traffic. This Government has found itself in the impasse of having to manage for the umpteenth time the collapse and the failure of Alitalia and we have contested the fact that in the package, not well defined, that it has been dealt with with Etihad has not been considered the problem relative to the national air transport system as a whole but it has been limited to treat the Alitalia company without considering all the induced that gravita around it. The regret is that Meridiana who, in our opinion, had to be part of the negotiation, in fact, was not included in it. With regard to territorial continuity, always in extreme suffering, I agree with my colleague Uras that Sardinia is in an even more particular condition than Sicily. However, territorial management, as far as the political system is concerned, has always been lacking; just think of what happened this summer and the delirium we have witnessed on the issue of ferries to Sardinia and anything else, a really shameful situation that has put in serious difficulty also everything that gravitates around the transports in the summer months, that is, tourism and so on. It is clear, however, that the problem of Meridiana, with all respect and made the due proportions, is not reduced to Sardinia. There is also a major problem for Malpensa, and despite the Prime Minister's assurances - which we never believe - we thought that there would be an important position on the issue of Milanese airports to define or eliminate that big problem of cannibalization that, in fact, takes place between Linate and Malpensa. It is a problem that could be regulated but you need to have the will to do so. A will that has been there only in words but not in deeds. I just remind the government of what are the demands: to be a guarantor in this problematic negotiation that involves many families and for which, as Senator Uras recalled, there are still people who stand on the trellis at thirty meters of height and are seriously concerned for their future. We must restore human dignity to these people, dignity which, let me stress despite the collaborative climate of this morning, with this Government is becoming less and less. Since the minister responsible - or, in this case, incompetent - did not have much reassurance in the Commission, we would like to hear from the government a hint or a novelty about this dispute, which seems frozen and on which there is no answer. I already know for sure that on the request referred to in point 3) of the device of our motion there will be the contrary opinion from the Government, because we ask the Government, always within the within of own competences, to take initiatives at both national and European level in order to try to eliminate the forms of deregulation like those of which the company of Mr. Aga Khan, that in fact has purchased Air Italy, an appendix of our transport system, in our opinion with the clear intention to transfer to you the whole labor force made redundant for the sole purpose of saving. We do not agree on these choices, which are madness: a kind of bad company created at will, a trash can, a garbage can where to throw workers to heal a strategy that is not there and strengthen the profits of private individuals, who are also legitimate but who do not have to pass on people. I therefore hope that the Government will also give an answer on the third point of the device, which we consider important and, although not particularly confident, we are waiting to listen to the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u16	I call Senator Serra to explain motion 337.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u17	Mr President, Italy does not fly and when it tries to do so, landing is always an emergency. Easy metaphor of the country's socio-economic condition. Alitalia is at its third restart, under the wing of the Arab carrier Etihad, after having spread over 4 billion burdens on the community in public management and having burned over 1.5 billion under private management. Today it is up to Meridiana, at the crossroads of her past history, certainly not unlike Alitalia. The act of the end is the expulsion of 1,634 employees, who after four years of the integration fund will be put on the move. A very hard cut announced together with a plan of fake relaunch with new routes and with a not better specified new industrial structure. This chronicles the indiscretions about entry into the capital, to support Prince Karim Aga Khan in an effort not to fail, Qatar Airways. In Sardinia Qatar is known, it makes good purchases. A slender company, with two thirds of the staff sent home, seems the ideal condition to attract a new savior, perhaps Chinese. This is the epilogue of the long Meridiana crisis. Yeah, because either this time Meridiana begins to make useful or corporate sustainability becomes an increasingly serious burden and impossible to withstand. The beaten at the downside of the accounts comes from afar: starting from 2007 the group travels constantly with negative gross margins. Total costs have always exceeded revenues. It will be the fault of the crisis, so we use to say: it is the crisis, it is the beauty crisis! Only that Meridiana is not in crisis, she has only aggravated losses and debts in a Rossinian crescendo. The losses have always gone up and have accumulated more than 300 million in the last seven years, so much so that at the end of 2013 Meridiana's consolidated financial statements, which in the meantime incorporated Meridiana Fly, has a capital hole of 200 million euros. There has been no capital for a long time and there are financial debts for 340 million. A prefalliary situation, so far covered, in all these years, by the continuous increases of capital supported by the rich prince, his majesty Karim Aga Khan. But not only from him, even from the stock exchange, when the title was quoted: all money, those of minority shareholders and the prince, gone into smoke, but only apparently, and only for workers. In 2013 the consolidated company saw revenues fall for 140 million, over 20 percent on 2012. And in 2009 the turnover was 800 million, today we are barely 550 million. Are we sure that maneuvering on staff is inevitable? Because it has to be said, Mr President, that the cost of labour, in Meridiana, weighs only 20% on revenues. Other costs should be cut to balance the decline in revenues. And here emerges the weaknesses never exceeded of the company: the routes and their profitability. As for Alitalia, ballast is not only the cost of personnel, but the routes - as the managers say - are increasingly less profitable. Yet, in a note of 2 October this year by Councillor Morandi, we read that "the data disseminated on air traffic to Sardinia strengthen the belief that we need to invest further decisively on direct connections with the main European target markets". Then, in the note, there is a series of data on the increase of the percentages of flights of Sardinian airports: Cagliari plus 1.5 percent; Olbia plus 12.2%. And the fact that the more you jump in the eyes of those who read are the percentages of increase of passengers of international flights: Alghero plus 6 percent; Olbia plus 12.3 percent. The industrial plan, so flagrant and in the process of failure, does not take tourism and transport into account as essential parts of the revival of the economy and competitiveness of the Sardinian island. In this crisis plan that crushes the workers there are wrong choices, wisely wrong. Meridiana first absorbed Eurofly in 2006, with related losses, and then Air Italy, both revealed to be colossal flops. Air Italy, for example, has halved revenues between 2012 and 2013 and obviously closes at a loss. Meridiana, in early 2013, bought 38 percent of Air Italy's capital from former historical partners. The deal was obviously made by Air Italy's former partners and certainly not Meridiana. Surely the deal was not done for the workers, because we read, in another note of invitation to the workers, that on November 18, therefore next Tuesday, some flight attendants are called at the hangar of the Meridiana in Malpensa for the selections in Air Italy. So Meridiana closes for surplus staff and Air Italy (38 percent of Meridiana) assumes for lack of staff. Meridiana has put aside its employees, so that they are paid by the State, implementing a program of displacement of the activity in the subsidiary Air Italy, which magnified to an extent, with the routes and slots owned by Meridiana (like the permissions on the Naples-New York), needs to find work force and finds it outside the group of redundancies, from which it draws with full hands from the staff postings: a scam, a scam of high share, towards the workers, the families and us Sardinians. We are here today to ask the Government - which I see here distracted - for a commitment aimed at ensuring an efficient and adequate management of territorial continuity, which is lacking to Sardinia and Sardinians for too long, and to put an end to this ridiculous disadvantage resulting from the insularity that makes the cost of transport far greater than that of the Peninsula and the rest of Europe. But above all we ask to put an end to the stylicide and the scam of the fake crisis against the 1,634 Meridiana employees. And it is time to stop crushing citizens with the term crisis and justify their most obscene state filthiness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Candiani and Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u18	I call Senator Floris to explain motion 340 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank the President and the Group Leaders for having wished to include this important debate on the Meridian dispute on the agenda of the Assembly, at a time when the tables of confrontation between the company, the Government, the Region and the social partners are under way and the solution seems distant and difficult, given the difference between the proposals put forward by the actors involved. On the other hand, the negotiation to save the Alitalia flagship company has been going on for many years and only now seems to have arrived at the final moment. It is with great concern that I speak in the Assembly on a topic of primary importance like the crisis that is going through Meridiana, that - I remember - it is the second airline of our Country and that every year it transports more than 4 million passengers, of which 1,5 million are from and to Sardinia. This crisis, besides having negative repercussions from the economic and occupational point of view, poses a serious risk in consideration of the numbers cited for the territorial continuity of the Sardinia Region: we speak, I repeat, of 1,5 million passengers. The concerns concern not only the connections with the island, but also the covered routes on the entire national and international territory that for years Meridiana guarantees. Eighty concerns arise also from the dramatic situation that the employees of Meridiana live, two of whom have been for a long time on a lighthouse tower, also making a fast protest because the dispute was stagnating compared to its possible solution. Despite this, the airline has announced the start of the mobility procedure for the more than 1,600 employees and we hope that this will not happen, precisely because of a positive action of the Government. In the motions presented today by the parliamentary groups are summarized, in a precise manner, the data and the critical aspects of the dispute, for which the Government is asked a strong commitment, not only to relaunch the airline, through the implementation of a plan of reorganization and restructuring of the company. We are all aware of the fundamental role played by essential public services, such as transport, in guaranteeing freedom of movement for people and goods, with considerable repercussions on the country's economy. It should be recalled in this regard that the right to free movement on national territory is a principle enshrined in Article 16 of our Constitution. The European Union promotes the guarantee of transport services in the Member States, especially for citizens living in disadvantaged areas, in order to ensure high levels of economic and social cohesion. This concept affirms the substantial equality of individuals, regardless of their geographical location. It is therefore necessary to implement appropriate state aid policies (i.e. use of quotes) in respect of companies that provide connections to the islands. The aid is necessary to compensate companies for losses resulting from the need to provide a public service throughout the season, regardless of the cost and benefit assessments. In this context, Meridiana, which - I repeat - is the second national airline, after years of ordinary coverage of the air service for Sardinia, is in serious financial conditions. As has already been said, since 2007 the Meridiana group has consistently recorded negative gross margins, reaching more than 300 million losses in the last seven years. Due to these economic difficulties, the company could not make significant investments in the renewal of the fleet, so it is found to use aircraft purchased in the eighties, that most of the competing companies no longer use, also because they are not economical regarding the consumption of the same carriers. Finally, the new economic rules proposed by the Region of Sardinia in the matter of territorial continuity, have not allowed the society, given the current structural deficiencies, to participate in the ban for the allocation of the routes from Cagliari and Alghero to Rome and Milan. It has also been said that from the consolidated financial statements of 2013 of Meridiana, which meanwhile has incorporated Meridiana Fly, there is a loss of 300 million euros. This deficit has led to the setting up of more than 400 employees; a figure which may vary according to the source used, but which still remains considerable. Currently the situation has been dramatically aggravated and, in recent days, Meridiana has announced the mobility procedure for 1634 employees divided between pilots, flight assistants and ground staff, and 156 employees of the maintenance services; that is, it has started the mobility procedure for all the employees. The company's justification for employment shows an oversized workforce and labour costs that are particularly burdensome compared to other airlines; this would not allow it to offer air transport services at competitive prices on the market. We believe that this is not entirely correct and with these premises and without a clear industrial strategy shared with the Government, there are no conditions either to guarantee the viability of the company, nor to compete with other airlines, especially low cost. From the findings of the meetings that have followed in recent weeks between Meridiana, Government, Region and social partners, in order to find a shared solution for the relaunch of the company and the consequent protection of the places of work, emerges a serious uncertainty on the future of the company and the workers. With the motion that I tabled with my group's colleagues, but also with the other motions, the government is asked to continue the institutional meetings in order to guarantee the workers of Meridiana on the employment level and to support the company in drawing up a serious industrial plan to ensure sustainability in the short, medium and long term. Among the solutions proposed I ask the Government to assist the regional direction cabin, already in place, with a permanent monitoring and to stimulate the tourism sector through the introduction of measures to increase the number of passengers. Representative of the Government, we know that the demands to define this dispute come from numerous Regions, such as Sicily, Veneto, Lombardy, and, in particular from Sardinia, to preserve the fate of Meridiana, become a heritage for the economic and tourist development of the Country. For this reason, I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the motion and to the Government a commitment to guarantee the territorial continuity of Sardinia, seeking the solutions useful to safeguard the future of the airline and above all the staff of Meridiana that operates on the national territory. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u20	I call Senator Lai to explain motion 342.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I realize that with these motions we sometimes run the risk of performing a ritual function. I realize that, but I also know that we are all aware that Parliament's responsibility is to make a crisis like this alive and manifest, not letting people who fight to keep their jobs feel forgotten by their institutions. Parliament's responsibility is also to contribute to giving lines to the Government so that it watches over the work of a company, even if it is private and even if it operates in a strongly liberalised sector that has been going through a real revolution over the last ten years. A vigilance that we want to recall immediately not because it is exercised in passive terms, but to make concrete the intervention of the Government also with a reference to the social responsibility that the enterprise has, especially when their responsibilities and faults are evident in the business disaster. This industrial crisis deserves the attention of Parliament also for the imposing dimension of its numbers and for it to be a warning to other crises of this kind; an imposing dimension for the country, to imagine itself for the island it represents. As many others have said, Meridiana is the second carrier of the country, owns 27 aircraft for short, medium and long haul routes, has transported 4 million passengers and only one and a half million to Sardinia; it plays therefore a national function. It is a company that had 2,100 employees only in 2012, before declaring now 1,634 made redundant. Meridiana declared its crisis already at the end of 2013, and since that moment in this Parliament - and there is a negligence of Minister Lupi in this regard - there have been repeated signs that that crisis was considered with the Alitalia crisis, therefore system, and was addressed as a whole. The numbers of Meridiana's crisis are in the balance sheet, they are legible: the group's assets increased to less than 200 million in 2013, with a net financial position ranging from less 160 million in 2012 to less 340 million in 2013. These numbers say everything: these are the funds for which Meridiana is indebted to its property and which place it in pre-falliary conditions. All this does not say, however, that in these ten years six managing directors have changed, the last of which seems to have been wound up with 50 million euros, which have certainly weighed on the company. They do not say of a disastrous industrial management, perhaps in the distraction of the property and in the ignavia of other actors, which is symbolized by the fact that the company has eight different types of planes, with very high operating and maintenance costs that affect for half the inefficiency of the society and its management, while the cost of the job affects only for a quarter. They also do not say of a company that has continued to pursue development strategies in absolutely messy destinations, as well as extravagant and harmful acquisitions. Today, the condition seems irrecoverable, but we do not want to resign ourselves or to resign ourselves, with a passive attitude, to the Government. After the semiannual 2014 the company has declared 1634 employees made redundant, and we are only thirty days from 10 December, day on which either you accept mobility or you go to a mass dismissal, and not all will be able to accept mobility. It is intended to use the date of 31 December with a series of opportunities which, however, do not give guarantees to workers. The company proposes an industrial plan that previews in three years the discharge of the majority of the disorderly and inefficient aerial fleet, its reduction to 11 planes, of which only two operated with staff Meridiana and nine operated with staff of Air Italy, a company of property that has base to Malpensa and that would use a contract low cost. Workers cannot consider these conditions acceptable, also because there are strong doubts about the company's line of responsibility: in fact the mobility procedure is all centered on Meridiana and excludes the second company of the group, although the group is evidently a single industrial subject. For Sardinia it is an exceptional industrial and occupational shock, because of those 1634 workers on the move, 60% are stationed in Olbia's military base. Meridiana is today the second private company in Sardinia after Saras, and a cut of this size has visible effects in terms of GDP, as consumption not to mention social costs. Moreover, it has a heavy impact on the current order of territorial continuity in Sardinia: a weakening of Meridiana or its absence would make a part of Sardinia accessible only in the summer months by air, as well as determining in fact the persistence of a single subject that would have a monopoly condition. I would add that territorial continuity is further weakened by a new position of the European Union, which considers routes that are partly covered by low cost to be non-innerable. Today, compared to 5 years ago, Sardinia has a reduced air continuity to the hubs of Rome and Milan, against the model introduced six years ago, with the consent of the European Commission, which had allowed to honor as public interest also the connections between other five national airports, including Turin, Bologna, Venice, Naples and Palermo. My opinion, our opinion, is that which I have already had the opportunity to make public here. For an island like Sardinia continuity is a right, which if it is not satisfied by the market as such must be guaranteed by public intervention, which has the tools to do so. It is not continuity a weekly flight for ten months a year and daily in the two summer months, because continuity is the right of residents to have the freedom of mobility and not to be visited as a zoo or circus, when others make the holidays. I take this opportunity to point out that a monopoly risk with disastrous impacts on prices, as happened for ferries in 2011, 2012 and in part in 2013, also exists concretely in the marine continuity, guaranteed in part stormy way, as you all know, from the CIN, that has found the Tirrenia, company in which you fight without exclusion of blows a war for the property that could generate, without an adequate vigilance from the Government, a conclusion that could implicitly bear the effects of a real monopoly. In the motion - and I am beginning to conclude - we put five questions to the Government on which we call for monitoring and reporting. We believe that the Government cannot be content with a function of recording what is happening, with a notary function. He did so negligently in June, when we pointed out the problem, letting Alitalia and Meridiana be treated indistinguishably and not as a single market in crisis. It is true that Alitalia is an Italian brand, it is our former flagship company, but it is also Meridiana and has a value. Now the government is committed, and we appreciate the new attention, but there are interventions to be made and guarantees to be given. We are not - for example - convinced and confident that we are facing a reversible industrial crisis for Meridiana. It is necessary to clarify whether the industrial plan of Meridiana is able to withstand the change of a market that is not in contraction, but in increase. We need to clarify whether society - and we are asking for this - is able, as is suggested, to guarantee its contribution to the system of territorial continuity for Sardinia. We must also take note, in the face of the occupational shock on our island, that we are also faced with a loss of high and specialized professional skills, and there are spaces on this that need to be verified. We ask the Government to participate actively, with the adoption of initiatives at the European Union, in order to allow again the restoration of a wide territorial continuity at other airports, beyond Milan and Rome, and thus to be able to guarantee also to Meridiana to have space for the maintenance in Italy and Sardinia of the high professionalism in it. We would also ask you to check whether, on the workers' side, a more adequate installation of social shock absorbers is not possible or whether their re-use in the national aviation, civil and military system can be assessed, as in part has been done for Meridiana. We call on the Government to monitor, answer and report to Parliament on these questions, knowing that this is not just an industrial issue, but also a matter of work. For us, work means freedom for citizens. To take away the work of people does not only mean to take away their dignity, but above all freedom. That is why we call for special attention, attention to a crisis that must be addressed knowing that, if you leave victims in the field, they are not the owners of the society, but they are above all the families of the workers and, therefore, a piece of productive Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u22	This concludes the illustration of the motions. I declare the debate open. Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u23	Mr President, today in this House we are called upon to call on the Government to commit itself to resolving a situation which raises many problems in different ways. It is the Meridiana airline and the crisis it is going through, which risks endangering the economic and employment sustainability of Sardinia, as well as territorial continuity. The company made its debut on the island in 1963, choosing the city of Olbia as the main seat for its business. It has become the second airline in our country, and this has not only allowed several thousands of Sardinian citizens to build their own working life within the company, but has also encouraged a significant economic development for the territory. In reality, even if the company represents an important pivot for the economy of the island, it has not always recorded positive performances. Meridiana, in fact, over the years has been held up by continuous injections of capital and, due to the short-sighted choices of the property, has concluded business annexions of dubious profitability. It is recalled, in fact, that in 2006 it first absorbed Eurofly in loss and then Air Italy; both proved to be bankruptcy acquisitions. Moreover, beyond the financial deficit, Meridiana also has structural deficiencies, starting from a fleet in part obsolete: many of the owned aircraft were purchased in the eighties, while the most modern ones are only in financial lease. The continuation of the crisis meant that, in 2011, Meridiana, Government and trade unions concluded an agreement to grant the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Extraordinary, at zero hours, on a voluntary basis. Today there is an even more dramatic situation. There is a risk of starting a mobility procedure for 1,366 employees and the Government must undertake to prepare a recovery plan that takes into account the interests of the workers. It is necessary to support the company not only in order to preserve the economy of families and the territory, but also because Meridiana contributes, in the main way, to guarantee the connections with Sardinia. Territorial continuity, regulated and supported at European level, is a fundamental principle if one considers the disadvantage resulting from the island status of Sardinia and has the objective of ensuring transport services to citizens resident in the islands. By means of State aid to airlines that provide connections to the islands, territorial continuity is ensured, thus representing the way in which the principle of substantial equality of individuals is exercised. At the end of the day, it is the same problem that arises for Sicily, for which the procedures relating to territorial continuity have not yet been initiated, but only an act of direction of the Region that goes in this direction has been approved. It would be an important goal for Sicily, because, like Sardinia, it is disadvantaged from the point of view of mobility. It would be advantageous to have preferential and fixed rates for residents and any other instrument useful to increase the flow of circulation in Sicily. Sometimes territorial continuity is seriously at risk, considering that connections to and from islands, in some cases, are indirect. Here we hope that the Government will take care of the needs of the Sardinian citizens, who, at this critical moment, risk their right to move freely within and outside the national territory being compromised. It cannot be denied that all these aspects are taken seriously by the Government, the trade unions and the Meridiana herself during the numerous meetings aimed at finding a definitive solution on the dispute. We hope, in this regard, that the Government will accept our invitation, for the preparation of an industrial plan that, in the first place, averts the failure of Meridiana and the consequent mobility for the approximately 1,300 workers involved; that, secondly, it will be able to minimize the negative effects of the company restructuring; that, finally, it will give the right attention to the dimension of territorial continuity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u24	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u25	Mr President, the crisis in Meridiana is unfortunately about to lead to the dismissal of a large number of workers who, in relation to the situation of the economy of Sardinia, make manifest the situation of serious discomfort in which the island is located; conditions which, it is worth remembering, President Napolitano himself, on his visit to Sardinia, defined as of absolutely exceptional gravity and deserving of particular attention from the Government. It is in this very serious picture that the Meridiana crisis is also part of it. The extremely limited time available does not allow us to deepen this issue, which deserves much more discussion, but we cannot fail to take into account what Senator Lai said earlier about the severity of the crisis in Meridiana, which is certainly the most serious one that has ever hit Sardinia, already torn by an infinite series of crises of the various industries that have happened in recent years, with an equally infinite series of redundancies. This is definitely the most serious of all, if you think that over 1,400 people, almost 1,500, are interested and that about 900 of these people are Sardinian. We cannot forget, as has already been said, that Meridiana is today the second company in terms of employment and turnover and is surpassed exclusively by the colossus of Saras. The airline crisis is part of the wider context of airlines in general, many of which have been affected in recent years by the crisis, including at international level. Think of the Alitalia affair, which is well known, and the failure of many other companies in recent years. These crises are mainly due to market change, as a result of the proliferation of low cost companies. This is certainly one of the aspects, but it is certainly not the only one who is interested in the situation we are facing today. According to many of the protagonists, in fact, the crisis of Meridiana would not only be the consequence of the situation of the air transport, but would be the result of an operation directed to the progressive disposal of the company Meridiana in order to strongly reduce the costs in favor of other companies belonging to the company. Indeed, Meridiana was born in 1963, created by the Aga Khan with the intent to allow to reach the paradise of the Costa Smeralda that began to become reality but, above all, to promote the tourism development of Sardinia. This is inevitably the role that Meridiana has played in recent decades: it has allowed the connection between the main Italian cities, but also European and sometimes (for a certain period) extracontinental, and the North of Sardinia. Over the years the company has grown to become what it is today, that is the second airline in Italy. This happened after the merger with Eurofly and then with the acquisition of Air Italy. These operations, according to all the stakeholders, would be at the origin of the crisis and the main cause of the disastrous situation that Meridiana is facing today and that has already been widely described during the previous interventions. The company announced the use of mass dismissal, already announced many months ago when the fund was used. Meanwhile, however (and this is the anomaly of this situation) we continue to give impetus to the growth of Air Italy resulting in the progressive collapse of Meridiana. All this inflicts the blow of grace to the already devastated economic situation of Sardinia, brought to its knees by the failure of large industries and an unprecedented employment crisis, which is not compared with any other Region of Italy. The whole seems attributable to a management company that seems to take care exclusively to the reduction of the costs of the staff without taking care of the relapses on the territory, despite the huge resources provided (which continue to be paid) from the Sardinia Region in favor of the company. In addition to this, the issue of territorial continuity should also be addressed, another issue that needs attention (this is why I said that the time available is extremely short). The corporate crisis of Meridiana in fact involves some very heavy repercussions on the territorial continuity of Sardinia that can not fail to determine negative effects of great magnitude on all the citizens of Sardinia placing them in a situation of obvious inequality compared to the rest of Italy having to pay the condition of insularity. This inequality, which in fact has never been overcome, I believe would be the greatest expression if - as unfortunately seems - it did not remedy the situation of economic disaster in which Meridiana pours. We hope, therefore, a decisive and decisive intervention of the Government in order to favor the positive solution of the dispute between entrepreneurs and workers and, above all, to ensure the dignity of the work to all those who today are in conditions of discomfort and to all the employees of Meridiana, restoring a hope in this sense to the whole of Sardinia and to all the Sardinians. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u27	Mr President, the situation in Meridiana that we are dealing with today cannot be traced back to a simple issue that concerns Sardinian territory, because this is a particularly serious issue for the whole of the country. Among other things, during my visits to the Ministry I was able to understand the anguish of those who, even though they are based in other regions, are in the same condition, in the same circumstances of uncertainty about the future. But let's go with order. Much has already been correctly stated in the previous speeches and I shall confine myself, therefore, to highlighting some details and details. This is a typical Italian case, I fear addressed in a way that is not sufficiently determined, not necessarily by the current government, but certainly in recent years. What we are facing today is the scenario of a disaster announced. We must start from 2006: we must go back to the middle of the 2000s, to some operations that deserve clarification - I tell the Undersecretary - investigations and also investigations, if necessary. In fact, we are not clear - it continues to be unclear today - what the company's interest is. The loss? It is absurd, yet we are faced with a company that, over the years, has made choices that have produced only loss results, but with all the characteristics to be abundantly announced: from the merger with Eurofly, to the incorporation of Meridiana fly and, then, further, to the acquisition, made only in 2013, of the last 38 percent still residual property of the private members of the company Air Italy. An absurd situation in front of the scenario of a company that is already at a loss and that cannot stand. However, we are also faced with inconsistencies, with the managing director of Meridiana fly that is the same partner of Air Italy from which the shares are taken with the company already ficcata with good multimillionaire exits. This - let us be allowed - does not appear the scenario of a company that pursues the profit of the market and that correctly follows a linear path also towards the Government, which is then asked to face the occupational system, providing for social shock absorbers. It is not fair to employees who have long been employed in a battle that simply wants to respect a way of working that does not simply make rag paper of their lives. Mr. Undersecretary, we are with a company that today leaves its aircraft to the ground for convenience and leaves its employees firm starting them towards the disposal (we use the same term of the planes), instead taking to rent, with contracts very little onerous and very profitable and profitable, carriers with Romanian staff. These carriers are used to do the same work that operators, employees, ground staff and Meridiana's traveling personnel did. All this cannot make sense and we cannot even accept that it is said that the rules of the European Union allow this and do not allow, instead, to address in a clear way the need for a rebalancing of an air sector that is certainly in crisis, in general. It is not acceptable that there are employees with Italian contracts that are kept on the ground and contracts that, instead, are activated simply for some routes just because they produce more profit. I say this once again, Secretary: I am formally asking - and we will also do so with an appropriate question - for the correctness of those flights to be checked, including in terms of the ability to carry out the transport function to which they should be assigned. The control authorities must not limit themselves to the technological aspects (the engine works, the indicator lights up or does not turn on): they go on board to do some checks and they will notice that we have real carts on our heads. Above our heads there are, to carry passengers, planes in which there is to be ashamed to enter also for hygienic matters. Well, that's what Meridiana's doing today. I have been to the Ministry twice and attended the conciliation table. The company pulls for its part, looking at profits and mocks, even in a plasticly perceptible way, its counterparts, including the Government and the trade union parties. He's mocking a system that lets him. Mr President, I doubt whether any of these were at dinner a few nights ago, perhaps even pouring 1,000 euros. So check - and I say this to you - and be careful, because these are the risks you venture into, that is to say to find that those who leave people on the ground are the same as those who finance a political party that sits in Parliament, perhaps with a nice dinner of 1,000 euros! These are the inconsistencies you face, without hiding behind a sheet of paper or simply a letter of dismissal. We call on the Government to be clear, clear, strong and authoritative towards a company that has shown that it is aiming at everything except lawful profit, job protection and the achievement of its social purpose. What we have before us, however, is a massacre, a social butcher's shop. I think of those young people who today have a contract with Air Italy, those pilots and that traveling or land staff who have contracts of 20, 25 or 30 years with Meridiana. The choice is very clear on the part of the company: to download this cost and this social burden on the community, leaving instead the profits, where the contracts very "fresh" made with Air Italy allow to be able to release them to the necessity, depending on the conveniences. You see, Mr. Undersecretary, you cannot deal with the Meridian issue calmly and seriously if you do not bring out these inconsistencies too, trying to prevent them. At the consultation table I saw too little determination on the part of the Government in pointing to the company that, insisting on its own position, knows very well that, after the date of December 31, the constraints of the Fornero law will also come into operation, with the consequence that the employees, not only will be fired, but will find themselves with the rope around their necks. The government must be strong on these matters, because we cannot allow inequalities between workers within the European Union to be made, and then we must put the social burden on Italian social security, on the shoulders of our workers: this means that we do not do our part well, even during the Italian Presidency. On these issues, however, we see too nuanced positions: this is not good, this is not good. We must offer certainties and not simply give way to time, because we know very well how it works. This is a delaying technique for which a little time is spent, someone goes on mobility, perhaps encouraged, thus reducing the number of workers a little; someone else, on the other hand, remains in the Cassa Integrazione; someone else in the meantime finds work elsewhere. I would like to start by saying here that I have heard something really incredible at that consultation table, that is to say the company's hope that the government or regional authorities will engage in ways of self-entrepreneurship: but what are we talking about? Are these people being cut off, without prospects, and encouraging self-entrepreneurship? Mr. Undersecretary, we invite you to be serious, because we cannot be a paradigm of the entire Italian flight and airport system. Today there is no longer an Italian company: Alitalia itself is no longer Italian; but at least have the awareness to protect the employees of Meridiana, as it was done for those of Alitalia and to give this country a perspective that is not to hand over to Romanian carriers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u28	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u29	Mr President, I will be brief in making a few more comments than those developed in the precise and effective intervention of Senator Uras, who, by explaining the motion tabled by my Group, has not only provided all of us with data, but has clarified the basic conditions and characteristics on which we are dealing today, trying to open a debate on the substance. In fact, we must also look for some conclusive elements that allow a qualitative leap and a deviation from the direction that this very delicate story of Meridiana risks taking. Without a positive assault, the story of Meridiana risks to be added to the list of tragedies of this country, from the point of view of its possibilities of development and the ability to be competitive with respect to the European and international challenge. We must always remember our duties and our obligations well and, in the face of a phenomenon of this nature, there is no doubt that we must immediately put in place, especially with regard to the Government, political acts and initiatives that allow us to reverse the course. Someone will say that if this is done, maybe compared to today we go off topic. No. It is absolutely consistent, and even those who preceded me referred to the fact that we cannot abandon these necessary policies from what happened in the Senate (e.g. on the occasion of the jobs act) and that the House, the other branch of Parliament, will commit. From this point of view I see a gigantic responsibility of the Government, in its being sometimes fugitive, and at other times in trying to establish a negotiating table and then retreat. The government is waiting for someone to do the dirty work, for someone to take on first the burden of operations, especially with regard to employment (but not only) that will allow them to have a picture on which to necessarily draw consequences. Otherwise, it would not explain the recruitment operations by Meridiana, while presenting a plan of this nature, if not with that dequalified work, without rights and protections, that risks becoming the working condition in our country, precisely in the light of government measures. Otherwise, it would not explain how, unfortunately, you can support positions like those on the Fiumicino hub. I am referring to the proposal to increase the tracks, of which there is no need and no need is indicated, and not only by the citizens who are rightly concerned about the environmental impact that this would result and the deterioration of a soil as extraordinary as it is fragile. The events of the recent spill occurred in Maccarese by the pipelines in fact bring us to an attention that is not, and cannot be, only formal. We are pursuing a policy and a culture of expansion, and not of optimization, on the model of other large hubs, even much more significant, such as Heathrow Airport in London, which has an ability to optimize the runways with which we are not even able to compete remotely. The initiatives are there, but instead we pursue another direction and we carry out operations on the dequalified, poorly paid and precarious work. In addition to the strategic value, already mentioned and taken up in our motion, of an integrated harmonic system of communication and mobility for passengers and goods, it assumes an extraordinary and unique value compared to the Region of Sardinia. In fact, if we lose sight of our mobility and transport capacity for people and goods, we are going to flash a fundamental indicator of our national state. The weakening of the communication system calls into question the substance and intimacy of being a national state, because it weakens an element that must be a carrier for our country, affecting the rights of some people. I believe that we need a protagonism of this branch of Parliament to urge a certain sensitivity and a qualitative leap by the Government on this matter, which could restore confidence and perspective to thousands of workers and workers, to many families and to the population, starting with the Sardinian one. The aim of the acts we are examining today must not, as is often the case, be to achieve a shared assessment. It is important, of course, to try to achieve the ability of synthesis, but above all the aim must be to realize successive and consistent acts to these motions that, if approved with broad sharing, will result in the fact of strongly weighing that a subject has fallen into the field among the highest institutions of our country. The latter, aware of the difficulties of this crisis and precisely in order to get out of it, has chosen the challenge of defending employment and the quality of our transport system, going to identify the responsibilities, as it has begun to do in the Commission with reference to the events of the TAV. We know in fact that this is a country where you pay and you always start to charge from the bottom, from the workers, while you know how much inability - to say the least - we often find in the macrostructure. I believe that, among the commitments that will be made today, it must be said that it is no longer time to pursue this type of policy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u31	Mr President, the crisis in air transport once again marks the Italian economy and mortifies the active population, which, with the announced redundancies in the airline Meridiana, still reduces ranks and staff, professionalism with serious implications for the social system, families in the first place, marked by negative employment repercussions. It is Sardinia that pays the highest price for the crisis in Meridiana. Sardinia is a region with extraordinary potentialities and the uniqueness of the human, historical, economic, landscape and environmental heritage. It is one of the most beautiful islands in the Mediterranean, an island that in its physicality contains unique values and values constituting the paradigm of Mediterranean culture at the center of a geographical system that since the night of time has caused remarkable cultural traffics and influences in Europe and towards Africa, a Continent of proximity. Well, in view of these peculiarities and such uniqueness, Sardinia risks in these hours a further impoverishment of the social, economic and anthropological fabric. The airline's crisis is likely to frustrate the important results achieved in recent decades in terms of economic growth and civil progress. The comatose state of the airline company, caused by large indebtedness, lack of investment and the impossibility of acquiring new and more modern aircraft, can exacerbate the innumerable pockets of economic, industrial and agricultural crisis of the island; it can irreparably mark the legitimate ambitions of the Sardinian population aimed at reaching European standards of development. Wrong business and management policies, unpretentious as well as discussed acquisitions of additional air carriers, have probably helped to cause the situation of corporate crisis with a debt currently estimated at about 200 million euros and the need, in the opinion of the company, to consider no longer necessary 1,668 work units. In fact, 1,011 workers are estimated to be made redundant and 683 units of flight personnel no longer useful to take off Meridiana's aircraft every day. Too many, like many others, are employed for a company that currently transports only four million passengers. We are talking about structural redundancies, that is, personnel that would structurally cause the state of crisis of Meridiana's accounts: one of the many dramas of our Italy, one of the many chapters of a heartbreaking work history that is missing. Drammi and strazi all'italiana, with a government that is hesitant, hesitates, has the ideas clouded, an uncertain government in trying to put social policies at the center of its actions. In these hours, in fact, there is widespread talk of electoral law, of attempts at agreements in search of a model useful to ensure the success of the party that seems most interested to go to vote. I mean, the electoral system's a joke. Instead, we gather the cry of the many desperate who crowd the processions, demonstrations, which stir up the squares and avenues of Italy to express to them all the indignation for the individual and collective depression and mistrust in the fugitive institutions. Do you really care about so many people who have missed a life project? Who is responsible for restoring to the young unemployed, to the extent of 43% of the working population, the possibility of designing a horizon of work, creativity, training and serene growth? This majority has serious responsibilities. This government cannot run away by fearing elections. To Prime Minister Renzi we say that the moment does not require escapes and tactics, but requires answers and commitments consistent with the many words and promises made. And then Sardinia must be permanently and sufficiently connected with the Continent, with the motherland. It is called territorial continuity and wants transport services to be guaranteed to citizens resident in less favoured territories: the same opportunities, in short, for everyone. On this objective we wish to engage the Government with the motions on the Meridiana case. With these motions we intend to re-appropriate, Mr President of the Senate, a function that Renzi Government often denies us and subtracts us with the easy use of decree-laws and persistent requests for trust in Parliament. It is time to ask the country, in its social, political, economic and administrative articulations, to look with less improvisation to the air transport sector, to pose the problem of promoting mobility, especially between our islands and the Continent, with low cost flights and favoring tourism to and from Sardinia, Sicily and the archipelagos. This segment of the market is left in the hands of foreign companies. Why can't we do that too? The solution lies in the involvement of the European Union that must take on the problem in order to comply with the principle of subsidiarity, the market that must become selective, and the Government that cannot be limited to an ancillary function on social shock absorbers. A future is possible for Meridiana. Territorial continuity for Sardinians is inviolable principle. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start (don't be frightened) since 1963, when the Aga Khan founded the company Alisarda, with a vision of the island of Sardinia (and probably of the South of Italy) absolutely in contrast with what was the vision of our governments. A South that could be developed, not through refineries or the settlement of the SIR (and therefore of chemistry, as happened in Sardinia), but through tourism. At the time the Costa Smeralda was developed, the airport of Olbia developed and Alisarda was a first carrier dedicated entirely to tourism. Probably if Italy had already looked at this development of the country and the economy at the time, we would have taken a step forward. In 2010 Meridiana merged with Eurofly and became the second Italian carrier. In October 2011, Meridiana fully acquired Air Italy's property, strengthening its position on the market. I remember that the position on the market has led to about 4 million passengers in Italy and abroad and to 1.5 million passengers in Sardinia. It is clear that the problems arose in 2012, when Meridiana SpA's consolidated financial statements recorded a net loss of EUR 161 million. In 2013, the deficit grew and the consolidated net financial position, at the end of 2013, increased to 339 million in financial debt; of these, 254 against the AKFED, which is the proprietary financial. Here is a dichotomy - if you will allow me - between the management and the lender, that is between the part of the members they finance and a management that has instead resulted in various errors. These mistakes lead us to the declaration, during 2014, of 1,478 redundancies on 1,634 employees: of these redundancies - I want to point out, as many colleagues have already done - 850 are from Sardinia. These redundancies cannot be fully borne by Sardinia. Sardinia is a region that has already suffered and suffered serious penalties in the past as regards work. Today we ask the Government to monitor this new industrial plan that Meridiana SpA has brought, just to avoid that the redundancies fall only on the Sardinia Region. I remember Air Italy, which is Meridiana's subsidiary, based in Malpensa. We would not want the redundancies to take place in Sardinia and instead the recruitments were done only in Lombardy. I believe that if we were to start a struggle between the regions they hire and those they fire, we would be out of the logic of a country that must maintain its balance and its unity. We hope that the Government can avoid the Cassa Integrazione gains precisely in this restructuring, seeking not only relocation, but also absorption in Air Italy and in other companies of the employees made redundant, not only for the pilots, but also with regard to the personnel operating the maintenance. It is true that Meridiana has on the table the acquisition of 20 more Boeings, but we invite the Government to check exactly this figure, because on the one hand you buy planes and on the other side you fire 1,400 people. I would like to stress one last point, that of territorial continuity which is extremely important for our islands; for Sicily, as for Sardinia. Over time, territorial continuity seems to have become a privilege for these Regions, but it is not. Let's remember that we also had problems by sea: I remember and stress once again to the Government the need to monitor the problems of Tirrenia. In fact, we are facing a European infringement and therefore I call on the Government to monitor and monitor that territorial continuity, by sea, is absolutely assured, not only to Sardinia, but also to Sicily and the smaller islands. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are waiting for the airport plan, which was launched by the Council of Ministers. I believe that another commitment to be made is to get it to Parliament as soon as possible, so that this plan, which has been awaited for many years, can finally be examined and launched by the Chambers. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u33	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u34	I greet students and teachers of the Secondary School \"Gerolamo Lanfranco" in Gradara, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u35	On 12 November 2014, Dr. Alessandro Criscuolo sent the following letter: Mr President, I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, that the Constitutional Court, meeting today at its headquarters in the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. F.to Alessandro Criscuolo. The Presidency, on behalf of all colleagues, sends the new President the best wishes for good work. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL, PI, SCPI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u38	TONINI (PD). Mr President, before the representative of the Government gives his views, we would like to ask, if possible, to suspend the sitting for five minutes, in order to try to build a unitary text or at least to agree on convergences, since the debate seems to me to have expressed clear consonances.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u39	Senator Tonini, I would suspend work not for 5 minutes, but for 12 or 13 minutes, to prevent colleagues from waiting for the filming. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.40 a.m., to find the famous square. (The sitting was suspended at 11.23 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m.) The session is resumed. I self-empower myself: the suspension was seventeen minutes and not thirteen, but those were not enough either. Therefore, having verified that there is likely to be convergence, I will suspend the sitting again until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to pay a moment's attention to my fellow Members because I have to report some bad news that is affecting the city of Pavia, from which I come, and its community. Yesterday, late in the evening, a car theft was committed by two stumps, which unfortunately were not tracked. During the escape, a young city councilwoman of the Democratic Party, Elena Madama, 26 years old, was invested, a girl we all know in our community for the commitment that was taking place in her work, in this beginning of her legislature. She had just been elected and was also working well in a small provincial town like ours. We are shocked because this happened in a city like Pavia that is also quite boring (I say it as a former deputy mayor), where nothing ever happens, where we all know each other: it is the classic provincial city where these things do not happen. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues from Forza Italia, maybe you don't give a shit, but I find laughing and joking when we talk about these things really shameful, on the part of some colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u43	Please, Senator Centinario, you're talking about something important: do it in the right language.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u44	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). What I wanted to ask the Senate to do is to squeeze us, at this moment, around Elena, her family, my city and also my colleagues in the Democratic Party, who I see really upset by this event. I want to hug her hard, and I hope this hug gets to her as hard as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u45	Thank you, Senator Centinario. The Presidency also supports its important call.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u48	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, yesterday I asked for the election committee to be convened to establish a rule for the execution of sanctions. It seems obvious to me, however, that, as there are rules that accompany the execution of the sentence in criminal justice proceedings, there should also be sanctions and administrative sanctions. This morning there are about ten Senators missing from the 5 Star Movement, so the Assembly is depleted of a substantial part of a political force representing millions of Italians. I believe that this is inconvenient and that it violates the rules of democracy which should accompany the progress of our work. I wonder whether it is possible to include in the Rules of Procedure the assumption that, in the case of multiple sanctions, different times can be foreseen for the execution of the sanctions themselves. I want to make it clear to you, Madam President, and to the entire Presidency Council, if you ever miss it, that every single senator in this House represents a fraction of the legislative power of our country which, as a fraction, has the right to receive answers to its own questions. Very often it occurs that the Presidency Council does not respond to the requests of the senators. In this regard, I recall that I have made a request for access to documents under Law No 241 of 1990, and to date this request has not yet been processed, in violation of the rules accompanying the public administration. This makes me think a lot, first of all about the respect of the rules and, first of all, about the respect of the people and the roles that each of us carries out. With my speech this morning, I would like to ask the answers both for the first and second instance and, even if they are negative, it is correct that the Presidency Council should give them precise, precise answers to those who ask them. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u49	First of all, for the sake of clarity of the minutes, I would like to make it clear that you did not request the convening of the Assembly for the elections, but that of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. I guess it's a mistake talking. However, we had already communicated it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u52	LAI (PD). Madam President, I would just like to inform the House, the Presidency and the representative of the Government that an agreement has been reached for the withdrawal of three motions. This is, in detail, the case of motions nos. 284, 340 (text 2) and 342, which are replaced by a single agenda, the G1, signed by the first signatories of these motions and, to follow, by other senators and committing the Government on five points. In the first it is asked to report to the Senate on the ongoing dispute concerning the national air transport system and, in particular, on the current dispute between Meridiana, trade unions and local institutions. The second point commits itself to verifying any necessary means of avoiding the massive use of the Integration Fund for workers who, moreover, represent a collective heritage of culture, competence and specialisation. The third point provides for a commitment to verify the compatibility and consistency of the Meridiana industrial plan with the general air transport plan. Finally, on the topic of territorial continuity for Sardinia, two specific points are foreseen: the commitment to define, in agreement with the Sardinian Region, the adoption of appropriate air transport policies to guarantee a true freedom of transport, mobility of goods and persons; the commitment to intervene, in the European Union, always in agreement with the Sardinian Region, to identify a programme of measures compatible with a true system of territorial continuity from and to Sardinia in medium and wide range, that is to say with Italy and Europe. This agenda is intended to take on all the premises relating to the three motions I have mentioned, as they are widely shared, so we propose this to the Government's assessment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the representative of the Government, Mr Del Basso De Caro, to speak, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on motions no. 329 and 337 and on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u53	Madam President, first of all I would like to apologise to the House for the delay with which, because of me, the work began. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] The causes are not attributable to me, but of course they are responsible to me. I apologise to the House. As far as motions are concerned, I note that three are withdrawn and put together on a single agenda which Senator Lai has just outlined. I would first like to speak on motion 329 tabled by Senator Crosio and others. The opinion supports the first point of the proposal, which commits the Government to ensure a solution that takes into account the safeguarding of jobs, the human dignity of the workers involved and their families. They are contained, albeit with different wordings, already exposed in other motions. The opinion is also favourable on the second point of the device, which commits the Government to report in the Senate on the state of the Meridiana dispute, with particular regard to the restructuring plan and reorganization of the company and to the future employment of the employees concerned. On the third point of the operative part, the opinion is in favour, subject to the following rewording: "to take all possible initiatives, within the framework of its competences, at national and European level, to avoid deregulation." Therefore, with the rewording of the third point, the opinion is in favour. I move on to motion 337 tabled by Senators Serra and others. The opinion supports the first point of the device, which commits the Government to report to the Senate on the state of dispute and restructuring plan of the Meridiana airline. The opinion is also in favour of the second point of the proposal, which commits the Government to define transport policies that ensure, in accordance with the provisions of the Community law, a model of territorial continuity capable of balancing the permanent conditions of disadvantage resulting from insularity, to which resident citizens, and in particular university students from outside Sardinia, are obliged. The third point of the device commits the Government to put in place any appropriate initiative aimed at solving all the problems related to the crisis of Meridiana, with particular reference to the containment of the number of redundancies announced, equal to 1,600 units, and to the maintenance of the highest levels of employment. The opinion is favourable with the following rewording: "to operate in order to be identified, in agreement with the Sardinia Region, all the useful instruments to avoid or in any case reduce the eventual negative repercussions on the state of the occupation in Sardinia in relation to the announced redundancies of Meridiana". The opinion is opposed to the fourth point of the device, which commits the Government to take measures to prevent the recurrence of operations such as the one between Meridiana fly and Air Italy, in order to prevent workers being forced to accept downward negotiations in order not to be fired. The fifth point of the device commits the Government to take measures to reduce the disadvantage resulting from the insularity that makes the cost of transport for and from Sardinia, both for citizens and for goods, both air and sea, far more expensive than that of the peninsula and the rest of Europe, thus penalising not only the Sardinian citizens, residents and migrants, but all European citizens. The opinion is in favour, subject to the following rewording: "to adopt in agreement with the Region of Sardinia an adequate strategy that allows the adoption of transport policies of territorial continuity that allow maximum accessibility to the territories of the Region of Sardinia." The sixth point of the mechanism commits the Government to promote in the appropriate Community fora initiatives to facilitate the establishment of a preferential tariff regime for air connections to and from Sardinia, short and medium-range, guaranteeing the free movement of persons and goods. On this point, the opinion is in favour of the rewording that I am going to read and which is based on point 4 of motion 284: To propose at EU level, in agreement with the Region of Sardinia, a programme of measures compatible with European legislation, in order to guarantee tariff regimes for an adequate number of short and medium-range air connections to and from Sardinia, in order to ensure the free movement of persons and goods. Finally, on the G1 agenda, which has just been presented, which summarises and contains, in the premises as well, motions No 284, No 340 (text 2) and No 342, the Government gives a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u57	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will not go any further, since both I and Mr Candiani have properly explained our motion at the stage of the illustration and subsequent debate. I would like to thank the Government for the proposed amendment to point 3 of the device, which we are satisfied with and which we accept. We believe that the government's commitment to avoiding deregulation is important, which is basically what we think is going on here. I would like to stress to the Government one more question: we believe that all the air transport system in our country must be taken into account and worked in a more incisive way. We have contested the action put in place by the Government in the negotiation on Alitalia, because we have always believed that all the negotiation should not be conducted exclusively and in aseptic way on the economic question and merely technical - if we want to use this improper term - of Alitalia, but that it was necessary instead to bring to the table of the negotiation all our transport system. This would certainly have been more appropriate. In any case, today we are here to talk about the territorial continuity of Sardinia and the heavy dispute over Meridiana - and consequently Air Italy - and we are confident about a possible commitment by the Government on this important match. It is clear - and we tell the Government and colleagues - that we will not let our guard down on such an important issue, as we trust the whole Parliament will not do (but we have no doubt about that). In particular, we trust that the government does not do so, because the workers of Meridiana and our entire air transport system need, not proclamations or sales as sales, but concrete actions. We believe that this is important: we are confident and will see what happens next. For these reasons, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will also vote in favour of the other motion and the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u58	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Convenevole da Prato) in Prato. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u61	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would ask that the G1 agenda be put to the vote, accepted by the Government, which sees the synthesis of the three motions presented by our Group, by the Democratic Party and by the Forza Italia Group. It is important for us that it has been able to develop, because it gives a signal to the workers who are now engaged in a very hard dispute. It gives a signal of unity of the political forces, regardless of their positions and belonging to the deployments or sharing of the government's action. It gives a signal of unity around the issue that concerns the Sardinians on territorial continuity. The territorial continuity must be a conquest for residents and non-residents, in order to guarantee development to our Region, to a part of Italy that has been defined here, also by others, as one of the most beautiful, interesting and prospective in terms of development. I conclude, Madam President, this explanation of vote in favour of the G1 agenda and in favour of the remaining motions, and for a very simple reason: we want to mark, for the Meridiana workers in particular, at this time, a united position which goes beyond the differences that we are often forced to stress in this House. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u64	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, today we are talking about Sardinia. In some interventions it was remembered what Sardinia is: a wonderful land, a land of conquest, a land conquered by those who came from outside, who bought the land from the shepherds and built a lot in this region. They are the same ones that have had and still have in hand the fate of the aerial connections. Sardinia, for me who are Campania, is a wonderful region and should be put in the shoes of those who live in a region that presents the problem of arriving on the continent (as, as we know, is an island), while territorial continuity is a right, it is not a conquest. It is a right, like those provided for in the Constitution of a unitary State. I repeat: it is a right, a right to continuity, it is not an achievement. However, we have listened to the Government's words, including on the points of our motion, and I wanted to reflect here on what happened. Speaking of the story Meridiana, I remember that Meridiana owns 100 percent of Air Italy and that, according to some data, 10,700 tracts of Meridiana are operated by Air Italy, while zero tracts of Air Italy are operated by Meridiana. This too should make us reflect on the fact that it is always the same box; and inside this box something moves. And when something moves in the same box to me it comes to mind what happened in 2010, when a gentleman brought out of Italy what once, even with its immense limits, was a great company. That gentleman's name is Marchionne and I think back when, in the famous agreement of Pomigliano, he made the new contract, beyond the national bargaining, blowing up a cork. From that story, which is important and which we should remember, a model has developed and that model, in a theoretical way, should be opposed, because it has allowed to ignore a whole series of rights that had been acquired, such as the collective agreement. We went to a system that also took FIAT out of Confindustria. We should remember these passages, because in this case perhaps we are doing something similar: it is the same company that fires and hires with a new contract. I don't know if that's right, it sounds crazy to me. On the other hand, on that separate bargaining was then put a beautiful colored piece, with a maneuver of the Berlusconi government in August 2011, when that type of negotiation was raised according to law and we presented a bill to abolish that crap and I think we are not the only Group to have done so. We should go back to our steps and understand what happened. We can also think of what happened with Alitalia (and not only): the bad company, the good company; we play games, but behind whom? Behind the workers. When do we take a firm stand in doing things? There are some interesting motions, but always a little 'water roses. The problem with what is happening in this House is that we often put a veil to cover our inefficiencies and what we cannot do. The government should take a position and be decisive, it should have the strength to impose the will of the people on that of the private. If we have forgotten that the will of the community is stronger than that of the private, perhaps we have forgotten what we are doing here. We have to think about these aspects, or else we always come back to the same point: it makes no sense that we are here. Since there is a part of this House which refers to liberal principles, we must respect the rules in a liberal system. Are we complying with these rules or are we changing them in the race to make sure that they conform to what we like or need? Perhaps we should restore a number of levels of law, and we should work on that. When the Government gives an opinion contrary to point 4 of our motion, our wrists are shaking, because it means that the Government does not take a position and that is what we cannot accept, because it is absurd. How do we get out of this? Let's talk about the Meridiana crisis. Well, as has been said, flights have increased. They increase flights and what do we do? We fire the workers from a box and, as in a Chinese box game, in another box owned by the first box, we reassume the workers with another contract by moving the company, with 850 workers who are in Sardinia, to Malpensa. What are we talking about? When are we gonna stop letting the privates do whatever the hell they want? When do we restore a system of rules? As I have already pointed out in this House, we find ourselves in the strange and absurd condition that, in order to be revolutionary, we demand compliance with the rules! It seems to me an oxymoron: it is absolutely antithetical revolution with respect for the rules. However, the situation is so messed up and so bad that we, in order to be revolutionary, ask you to respect the rules. That sounds crazy. If that is the condition, we ask the Government to take a position and give a favourable opinion on point 4 of our motion No 337, because with it we return exactly to the rule of 2011. Do we want to get back to this? Do we want to realise that we are wrong and that we must return to putting collective interest in private interests at the centre? If it is true that, as the Constitution states, private initiative is free, it can never prevail over collective interest. We must then restore a system of certain rules in which one avoids and continues to prevent the workers from playing Chinese boxes on the downside, because someone earns more and more and someone takes it in that place! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u67	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, the Group of the New Right Centre cannot but agree with all the reasons on the G1 agenda and, at the same time, do not express its satisfaction at the unity of intent shown. I therefore request that the text of my explanation of vote containing the reasons for this satisfaction be handed over and that the New Centre Group vote in favour of the agenda before us. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u68	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text of its explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u71	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Firstly, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the G1 agenda, which replaces the motions tabled by my colleague, Mr Floris, the representatives of the PD, SEL and the Mixed Group. The debate has shown that there is unity of intent and that the differences concern only the nuances; for this reason we will also vote in favour of the motions tabled by the other groups. Transport is always fundamental for the freedom of the person and for the economy, and this is all the more true for Sardinia. It is important, therefore, that the Government collaborates with that Region to find rational and efficient solutions to ensure the freedom of Sardinian citizens to move and the economy to develop according to their own possibilities. Appropriate air and maritime service must be ensured. I would also point out that Meridiana's problem is humanly dramatic: there is a risk that about 1,650 out of 2,300 workers will lose their jobs: a dramatic situation. We must find rational and modern solutions that assess whether and how the company has a future but also that take into account the human dignity and the right to work of about 1,650 women and men who have no blame for the dramatic situation in which the company is located. We truly hope that the Government will move, be active and, together with the Region, identify rational but humanly acceptable solutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u74	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Del Basso De Caro, today's debate on the Meridiana affair takes place at a very difficult time for air transport and, consequently, for workers in the sector, but also at a very delicate time for the ongoing negotiations between companies, trade unions and the Government. Parliament has a duty to make a contribution in this context, with the intention of facilitating the establishment of a solution to a negotiation which, on the other hand, has elements that make it seem objectively impossible. I believe that Parliament and politics more generally, if they want to fully exercise their role by making a contribution to the government engaged in this difficult negotiation table, cannot think of doing so by taking partisan sides with either side, uncritically marrying the reasons of one side and opposing those of the other. Unfortunately, we are faced with two dramatic reasons in my view. On the one hand, the protection of employment, the strenuous defence of their jobs for more than 1,600 workers, as has been pointed out. On the other hand, those of a non-deferable structural reorganization for an airline that represents a piece of history of air transport in this country, which I believe we cannot afford to fail; and I am convinced that the company itself does not want it, as it does not want, because it can no longer afford it, to cover the huge losses it has suffered for years with the current organizational structure and the current flight capacity. The new industrial plan starts from a new repositioning of the society, both in its bases of flight as in the renewal of the fleet aircraft, and above all in the organizational models, with a drastic and dramatic reduction of staff. It is a plan aimed at putting the company back into Bonis for a functional restart to a new development of the flight company in a future time and on new assumptions. Meanwhile, however, there are 1,600 workers. In the face of this situation, who of us does not agree with the invocation that the Holy Father addressed (and I am thinking first of all of politics), when he strongly hoped that a fair solution could be found that takes into account first of all the dignity - a concept repeatedly taken up in today's debate - of the human person and the indispensable needs of so many families? And then when he added, almost as a supplication, when he met the workers made redundant from Meridiana "Please, do I appeal to all those responsible, no family without work"? What more is there to say? The problem is that we, with all due respect, are not the Pope, and even if we manage with words rather than with facts, we are still asked to indicate a solution that can be travelled to a rebus that - I repeat - has the connotations of the impossibility in terms of full conciliation of the interests at stake. Yet right from here - if we want to be serious - we must start, asking each of the parties involved to give up a piece of their prerogatives and legitimate interests, in the knowledge that for every legitimate and justified reason there are also, in a recent time, behaviors, actions and situations perhaps not quite impeccable - I believe - for each of the parties involved, as many interventions have called for. Our role requires us then to turn to the Government (I think everyone, with a spirit of maximum collaboration) in this thorny and very difficult situation, asking for a few things, essential and prosecutable. I should like to point out at least three of them, as they have been included on the unified agenda. First of all, the guarantee of territorial continuity, especially for Sardinia, but not only (I also think of Sicily and the other islands). Then there is the rigorous analysis of the industrial plan; there is no specific competence of the Government from the point of view of verification, but a serious and rigorous analysis I think it can offer further answers on the negotiating plan. Finally, there is the safeguarding of employment, with measures and accompanying tools from work to work. They are - as is clear - three issues that are being held and that are answered precisely from a very careful examination of the industrial plan that Meridiana society will present. From this will come in fact the guarantee of the effective territorial continuity for a territory like Sardinia that cannot tolerate ulterior penalties from the point of view of the connections with the continent. From this I believe and hope that, in the folds, there may be some adjustment of the pitiful numbers that seem not to want to give way. It is clear that in the foreground for the Government remains the issue of employment and in this sense we are really asking for an extraordinary commitment for a Region that has had no longer sustainable occupational mortifications. Meridiana's staff is, precisely for the professionalism and skills he possesses, a resource that cannot be dispersed. For this reason we believe it can be easily employed in other productive settlements that must necessarily be located in that territory. This Government - and more generally Italy - owes it to it, for a behavior that historically, when it was not distant to the needs of development of that Region, was characterized in predatory and - as we know - sometimes also vexatious. In this sense it must really change towards the politics of this country. It is for these reasons, which I have briefly represented, that the Democratic Party Group will vote with conviction on the agenda G1 which unifies the first-signed motions of Senators Lai, Uras and Floris, also agreeing to the other motions presented. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u75	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. As far as motion 329 is concerned, I would ask the first signatory, Senator Crosio, if he confirms his intention to accept the rewording proposed by the Government. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 329 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 329 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As far as motion 337 is concerned, I would ask the first signatory, Senator Serra, if she accepts the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u76	President, I accept the rewording proposed by the Government, but I would ask, if possible, for the split vote on point 4 of the device, on which the Government has expressed an opinion against it. I would like this to be voted on, precisely because of what has been said today about the dignity of workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u77	If there are no comments, we shall proceed to the separate vote on motion 337 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). I call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premise and points 1), 2, 3, 5 and 6 of motion 337 (text 2), tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 4 of motion 337 (text 2), tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Lai and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u80	PHASE (PD). Madam President, I rise at the end of the sitting to represent the need and urgency of this House and, through its kindness, to the Minister of the Interior, to respond to the immigration issues. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u81	I would ask colleagues in this House to lower their voices and those who are leaving the Chamber to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u82	PHASE (PD). Thank you, Madam President. I must say that the Government in part has already intervened yesterday, partially resolving a problem that has arisen, with the transfer of about 110 asylum seekers from a shed in Gorizia in Milan, assisted and followed by the Red Cross. This has prevented possible situations of difficult control and management of the structures, which insist on small urban fabrics, as is the case with the reception centre for asylum seekers (CARA) in Gradisca d'Isonzo. Despite all the efforts made and while taking advantage of the positive response to the question time by the competent Minister and the good will of associations and the world of volunteering, all this is broken against the lack of structural responses and - I would stress this - against the inadequacy of the procedures for assessing the requirements for the recognition of the effectiveness of the status of asylum seeker. This implies the obvious and foreseeable consequence that too long waiting times will lead to a prolonged stay in the territories and structures of temporary reception, leading to overcrowding, the primary cause of a deterioration of the living conditions of migrants, restricted there, but also of difficulties for social and health workers and public security and, more generally, of the urban context. I believe that the answers given by the Minister need further study. With my question 3-01217, I asked for the strengthening of the Dublin Unit in order to make the examination of applications for recognition of status effective and timely, with the benefit of international protection, and for the introduction, now that we are in the process of implementing Law No 146 of 17 October 2014, of the possibility for the territorial commissions to directly instruct that part of the procedure currently devoted to the Dublin Unit alone, in order to avoid that the failure to comply with the deadlines prescribed for the examination of applications entails to Italy the definitive unsustainable burden of taking on all the pending positions, which are equal to more than 90 percent. Finally, it is requested that, where appropriate and possible, the principle of relocation laid down in Article 8 of Community Directive No 83 of 2004 should be introduced with due consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u85	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, on 13 November 1981, during a normal police check at Milan Central Station, police officer Eleno Aniello Viscardi was killed. At such a difficult moment of suffering for the Forces of Order, which are put at the center of many controversy, I like to recall a servant of the State who, at the age of twenty-five, sacrificed his life to ensure the security of the country. In March 2010, the President of the Republic, following these events, awarded the gold medal to the civil valor of Agent Viscardi. On the 33rd anniversary of his death today, it seemed to me right to remember that in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u86	The Presidency supports this important remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u89	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, today's Official Gazette has published the text of Decree-Law No 133 of 12 September 2014, coordinated with Conversion Act No 164, of 11 November 2014, the so-called Italy unblock. As my entire Group has already pointed out in this House, the rules on drilling contained in this decree-law will give the green light to greater activities in the field of hydrocarbons in a large part of Italy. In particular, in the upper Adriatic, in Abruzzo, in Basilicata, in the Canale di Sicilia and in Emilia-Romagna, for a total of 32,000 square kilometers of new territory involved. I repeat the figure: 32,000 square kilometers of new territory involved. With regard to the situation of Emilia-Romagna, which will see 70% of the territory involved in the mining of hydrocarbons thanks to this new rule, we want to urge the Minister for Economic Development to answer the question 3-01263, at my first signature, concerning the report of the International commission on hydrocarbon exploration and seismicity in the Emilia Region, in which the experts of the committee came to the conclusion that it cannot be excluded that the oil extractions caused the shock of 20 May, which, in turn, would have determined that of 29 May, which caused the greatest number of victims. We believe that now, with the increase of these mining activities, which will take place thanks to the release of Italy, it is right to provide the citizens with the truth. We believe that the time has come for the government to clarify the results of the ICHESE Commission, so as to put an end to the confusion generated in recent months. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u90	We will ask the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u93	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, unfortunately, alluvial events are continuing to reap victims. After the Ligurian spouses died the other day and the elderly Biellasi died yesterday overwhelmed by a landslide, already remembered by colleagues, unfortunately I have to communicate that last night an elderly man who was mooring his boat in Lake Maggiore was overwhelmed by waves; dispersed, was then found. Also, last night a young municipal employee of thirty-six years old, of Crema, in an attempt to divert the waters of a roar to avoid the flooding of a nearby restaurant, was overwhelmed and his body was recovered only at dawn this morning, after five hours. We understand that this is not the time, since we are at the end of the session, to ask for a minute of recollection, but the Group of the North League...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u94	If you will allow me, instead, I was considering exactly that, having asked the question, despite the reduced presence of senators, the minute of silence we can observe it. I also imagine that, at the opening of a next sitting, we will resume the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the Group of the North League wants to express a feeling of deep condolence to the families of these victims, but let me stress this. In the Lombardy Region from 17 July to the end of August, therefore in a limited time period, were affected by alluvial events 314 Municipalities, which reported, between public bodies, families, private and economic activities, damages for 88 million. Immediately Governor Maroni asked for recognition of the state of emergency in the government, which had long been awaited. Well, on October 30, the government resolved the state of emergency, but in the face of the demand of as many as 88 million euros, it recognized only 5.5 million: 6% of what required. I denounce then how they squeal the words of Minister Galletti, that just the other day, on the occasion of the general states on the hydrogeological disaster, he said that in our country, therefore without making any difference, there is no culture and a cultural revolution is needed. We reject this assumption because there are different types of territory. Then Minister Galletti said that the resources are there and must be spent immediately and well. This stride with the recognition of these crumbs, a begging [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which certainly does not represent a response to the needs of the Lombard territories. These EUR 5.5 million are even more than the EUR 47.8 billion of residual liabilities that the Lombards give to the State every year, i.e. taxes that are paid and that do not return to their territory. I want to denounce this situation; one thing is the word, one thing is the facts. Frankly, we of the North League, that we have noticed, we did not expect much, also because the Prime Minister Renzi had announced 2 billion euros the day after the flood of Genoa, but in the release Italy, on the Fund for national emergencies, have been allocated only 50 million euros to meet not only the needs of the Municipality of Genoa, but also the different Lombardy, Piedmontese, Tuscany, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and even Apulian territories. Therefore, we express deep disappointment because this response of the Government certainly does not satisfy the municipalities, territories, families and Lombard enterprises. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u96	By distinguishing, therefore, between the political assessments, it is important and just to observe a minute of silence to commemorate the dead of last night. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-351.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.55 p.m.
