ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1417.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin my speech on judicial psychiatric hospitals on the very basis of the resolution adopted by the Health Commission. In this it is noted that the process for overcoming the OPG and the homes of care and custody has not yet come to completion for several reasons. However, we have reached a stage where it is necessary to release, without delay, all subjects still admitted to the OPGs. Decree-Law No 211 of 22 December 2011 placed at the centre of attention, inter alia, the realization of residences for the execution of security measures, the so-called REMS, in which to carry out the security measures referred to in Articles 219 and 222 of the Criminal Code. It is a mistake to make the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals coincide with the realization of the REMS in order not to replace the current OPG with many mini psychiatric judicial hospitals. If this were the case, the same inefficiencies on the therapeutic, rehabilitation and resocialization level would again be produced, which have always been the great limit of psychiatric judicial hospitals. In order to avoid this, REMS will have to be only part of the treatment path of the criminal patients. Path that must start at the place of detention, continue in the REMS and then in the health facilities of the mental health departments or ASL, with the possibility to continue at the patient's home. The first step is the strengthening of mental health departments in order to create the optimal conditions for the reception of dismissable subjects. We must monitor effectively and continuously that in the regions they do not increase in a reckless way the places of pure internment, without these having a therapeutic function. This would lead to relegating to those places all those who are considered socially dangerous subjects. It is essential, instead, that an effective take-up by the mental health services present on the territory is carried out in order to obtain the realization of a path that tends to social reintegration (although partial) of the subject considered socially dangerous by the judge. It is certainly also important to implement programmes for the protection of mental health in penitentiary institutions, ensuring the functioning of psychiatric sections within prison institutions. This is to welcome prisoners suffering from mental disorder (Article 148 of the penal code), but also those mentally handicapped prisoners (Article 111 of the penal code) and those to whom psychic illness must be established for a period not exceeding 30 days (Article 112 of the penal code). This further extension until 31 March 2015 is the example of our bureaucratic insufficiency and inefficiency. The deadline foreseen by the current legislature, 1 April 2014, was not adequate, especially for the implementation of the structures by the Regions. The emphasis is always on the construction of reception facilities for socially dangerous subjects, the REMS. On the other hand, in the Health and Health Commission, absolute priority has been given to the final take-over by the mental health districts of the persons currently admitted to the OPGs and considered already "dismissable." It was also decided in the Commission to pursue the dual purpose of affecting access to the REMS, to monitor and limit the number of admissions, since the new institutions came into operation and to exploit the overall problem of the implementation of security measures. In order to carry out all this, it is essential to have a directing booth, in which all the institutions involved in the process of overcoming the OPGs are involved, in order to monitor, coordinate and stimulate each phase of the project and with the obligation to report every three months to Parliament. The regions must activate training modules for operators, for the creation of therapeutic-rehabilitative programmes for persons subject to security measures. After the release from prison there will be a health surveillance at the "relationship of care," greater for the patient's stay in the REMS and progressively less with the increase of the subject's collaboration, until it becomes that of all the patients in charge of mental health services. Finally, the main aspects to be deepened for the realization of the paths derive from the encounter of the two different knowledges and their organizations, the medical one and the legal one, that in order to realize the overcoming of the OPGs must dialogue on the concrete situations. I would like to end with the contribution we have received in 12a. The Commission, during its hearing on 19 March 2014, on the figure of the peer support expert in mental health. The peer support expert is or has been a user of mental health services, which draws from his own experience of illness a strength that can provide a different perspective with which to help other patients face their own therapeutic path. In the delegation, led by Dr. Marco Goglio, one of these experts, Alessio Spadaro, spoke for most of the hearing, impressing the whole Commission for the great humanity and passion with which he involved us. It is precisely thanks to his recovery that has involved us, it is the same personal history of the expert in support among equals to be a model to inspire other users to gain trust and hope and be helped to find their own path of healing. According to his words, recovery is healing. Healing is a journey; a journey that cannot be undertaken alone nor, much less, with someone who preorders the journey, tracing maps and obligatory passages. Healing is an absolutely personal construct, but it implies the presence of others, their witness, their understanding, their custom and a similar experience of pain. We also apply these words of Alessio to patients admitted to the OPG, with whom I wanted to close my intervention. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u10	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u11	Madam President, once again these parliamentary classrooms are forced to address the issue of psychiatric judicial hospitals by examining a decree-law that provides for the further extension for their closure, since the deadline set at 1 April 2014 could not be completed. Although I understand the reasons, essentially based on the complexity of the procedures for the realization of the structures of new conception intended to accommodate people suffering from mental discomfort who have become responsible for criminal facts already initiated or not, the widespread opinion that emerged during the work of the Commissions gathered and basically shared by everyone, also - I must say - with some discomfort, is that it is necessary to conclude the journey, as originally planned, with the end of the following of the extensions, which certainly does not benefit a democratic, civil and guaranteeing system which is certainly ours. Madam President, I would like to avoid unnecessary repetitions, which is a waste of time, partly because I consider the speeches made by the two rapporteurs in the afternoon sitting to be absolutely exhaustive, and I therefore ask you to be allowed to submit my written statement. Allow me, however, to express my satisfaction at the work that has been carried out by the Commissions meeting, which has developed with great serenity and harmony, a clear sign that the issue we are dealing with today, relating to the OPGs, is particularly felt by everyone. The sensitivity that has been manifested has also allowed, to the outcome of the work of the Commissions, to make in the amending the improvements to the original measure that certainly allow to look to the future with more serenity and more confidence also on the topic of the extensions, that we hope are finally finished, therefore giving rise to those intentions that have been manifested for a long time, but that for the reasons of which I have already spoken has not been possible to fulfill.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u12	The Presidency authorizes you to give your written statement so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u13	Madam President, with the 1975 reform of the penitentiary system, the term judicial asylum was changed in the judicial psychiatric hospital: a new label with a technical taste that did not serve to hide the horror and degradation behind these structures. In fact, nothing has changed: today the psychiatric judicial hospitals represent centres of segregation where, with hypocrisy, the mere isolation for rehabilitation therapeutic activity is sold. These places are contradictory, hybrid, halfway between medieval prisons and hospitals from horror movies, with age-old and never-solved organizational problems. They are forgotten where people, expelled from civil society and dehumanized by massive pharmacological treatments, passively accept a destiny of brutishness. They are earthly where the seed of alienation takes hold, because the crowd is implicitly harmful and is a healthy bearer of a sin: that of being different. They are the emblem of physical and psychic isolation and contentment; they are unhappy islands where the Constitution is rag paper and the right to care, health and life of so many sick people is literally ignored. People who are in psychiatric judicial hospitals ignore the reasons for their detention, because they do not recognize their sense of sense: this is the most contradictory element that nullifies their function and increases their usefulness. In Italy, currently, there are six psychiatric judicial hospitals which, in common language, are called criminal asylums. One of these is located in Montelupo Fiorentino: it has a capacity of 188 people, but it hosts more than 200. Another is located in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, and here too there are more than 200 people on the 150 planned. The remaining four are in Naples, Reggio Emilia, Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto and Castiglione delle Stiviere. In most of these structures there is a situation of overcrowding and degradation. In Italy more than 1,000 people are locked up in psychiatric judicial hospitals: 20 percent of these could, or rather, should go out and be placed in different structures, because the majority of prisoners are guilty of minor crimes and cases of serious crimes are really limited. Despite this, the relegation machine continues to move increasingly uphill, on slippery legal wheels that mark an uncertain path, that of the exiles without return. The last parliamentary inquiry in this regard highlights a chilling picture: walls and ceilings with shod and falling plasters; doors and windows with cracked glass; filth and food residues scattered everywhere; torn blankets and sheets, dirty and insufficient; presence of urine on the floor; toilets reduced to one unit and the size of one square meter; invasion of rats in the sewers, sometimes even in the common rooms. And yet, naked people covered only by sheets and taken away from human practices of personal hygiene, widespread hematomas, forced bed with tight bindings to hands and feet, physical coercions that recall the atrocities of the criminal manicomas of the early twentieth century. Everywhere, a feeling of complete and inhumane abandonment. Yet in 2003 the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 253, was clear: The need to protect the community could never justify measures which would be detrimental, rather than beneficial, to the health of the patient. Therefore, if, in practice, the coercive measure of hospitalisation in judicial psychiatric hospital proves to be likely to cause damage to the mental health of the infirm, it could not be considered justified even in the name of such requirements. In the year-end speech of 2012, Giorgio Napolitano described psychiatric judicial hospitals as "a real horror unworthy of a newly-civilised country." Despite these severe warnings, however, on March 31 of this year, President Napolitano issued, pursuant to Articles 77 and 87 of the Constitution, the decree-law containing the urgent provisions in question, placing his signature on the slippage of the closure of the six OPGs active at national level. However, the extension of the deadline for the definitive replacement of judicial psychiatric hospitals from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 has in itself the risk that the horror will degenerate further. Every time this closure is postponed, a situation of legal regression and debasement of the human dignity of the internees is dramatically prolonged. How many more extensions will there be? How long will it take to wait before the word ends this theater of referrals? We are in the presence of a situation that can only become even more cruel and that is symptomatic of a persistent lack of adequate health facilities in our country. Again, the state fails, uses without too many regrets the already over-abused instrument of the decree of urgency and puts the legislative body before the inevitability of impellencies that could be managed differently. We hear that we could not do otherwise and that this was the only way to go, but the insane mind that committed a crime cannot be condemned to an endless hell! There must be a concrete proportionality between the measures imposed and the actual social danger of the non-deductible crime. In contrast, virtual life sentences are issued against them, the keys to their narrow cells are thrown down as they did in the Middle Ages. Why subject these people, who have the same dignity as others, to remain between filthy and nauseous licks, not assisted by health care personnel, forgotten by all? The truth is that to date, in our country, there are no centres that can adequately accommodate subjects that are no longer socially dangerous, but need assistance. And then we prefer to repeat unsustainable situations, waiting for a recovery, a change, a manna that certainly does not materialize if we remain with consert arms. We are talking about another mockery, the daughter of laxism and the continuous self-indulgences that this Government continues to give itself, whistling away at the neglects, the marginalized, the disadvantaged. The decree of the Ministry of Health of 1 October 2012, in establishing specific structural, technological and organizational requirements for the new psychiatric residences, has not taken into account the state of structural backwardness in which the Regions pour in, which fail to implement the program due to a slow and opaque use of the funds allocated. It was not considered that the overcoming of disused planned structures is not merely a regulatory and administrative act, but requires a variety of actions and the collaboration of all those involved, in addition to the necessary funding. We hope, therefore, that the new structures (the so-called REMS, residences for the implementation of health security measures) will function very quickly, in order to achieve the health and rehabilitation objectives assigned to them, through the adoption of therapeutic-rehabilitative programmes and social inclusion based on real evidence of effectiveness. I repeat: real tests of effectiveness! It is necessary to maintain high levels of protection and, at the same time, to maintain the suitability of the structures to respond to the different psychopathological characteristics of the patients. There must be equipment to facilitate leisure, educational and above all rehabilitation activities. I repeat with force: these structures must not be places of no return, where the infirm minds are forced for decades, without any regard for their reintegration into the community. These structures must become places of therapy with specific figures of high professional profile. These structures must be places where people's fundamental rights are respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u15	Madam President, the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals is no small thing, so much so that today, with the decree under discussion, we have to approve the granting of an extension - fortunately only for a year - in order to allow the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to complete the measures and structural interventions already planned, aimed at ensuring the therapeutic-rehabilitative assistance for the recovery and social reintegration of interned patients, coming from judicial psychiatric hospitals. This measure of extension, even if inevitable, deeply saddens me, because to postpone once again the closure of the OPGs, places which are unworthy for a civil country, as President Napolitano has defined them, is grave in itself, but it would be intolerable if it were motivated by a question of public works first, also because in the REMS (residence for the execution of the health security measure) programmed by the Regions 910 places are foreseen, a number greater than the current inmates in the OPG, since fortunately in recent years the mobilization that has been reversed the trend of increase of the internments, that currently are 836. Of these inmates, about 31 percent are subject to a temporary security measure, while just under 70 percent are perpetrators of low-profile crimes. Only in December 2010 there were 1,400, so there was a decrease of more than 400 units, also due to the strong awareness determined by the Commission of investigation on the health system of the Senate, the so-called Marino Commission, by the harsh words of President Napolitano, by the mobilization of many associations, such as "Stop OPG" and by the passionate trip of Marco Cavallo. In 2010, the Commission denounced the living conditions of internees with heavy words. The reports on the inspections carried out led to a strong awareness of the issue, also on the political level, which led to the launch of Law No 9 of 2012, which provided for the closure of the OPGs before March 2013, then on April 1, 2014; today we will vote an extension to 31 March 2015, but vote on it without thinking of rules that introduce precise constraints, that favor the resignation and the measures alternatives to the detention, that brake the improper entrances and put an end to the extensions from the security measure, due to the failure of the institutions, that should take charge of building an adequate therapeutic-rehabilitative individual project, would be really unacceptable and against the spirit of Law No 9 and of the same law n. 180 of 1978. For these reasons, in the Health Commission we voted on a resolution with a view to making a contribution to ensuring that the REMS that will be implemented do not replicate the contradictions and inefficiencies of the therapeutic resocialisation and rehabilitation that have always afflicted the OPGs. The REMS are places that, without prejudice to the cultural and legal model of reference, even if newer, ordered and sanitised, risk remaining places of suffering, separation and custody and reproduce, in spite of law n. 180, institutionalization, mental discomfort and social danger. If we do not intervene with determination, we will only have moved the problem to a newer and cleaner container, but we will not have achieved the right goal, which is the development of an effective network of mental health services that allows the responsibility of the mental health departments of people with programmes and resources reserved to it. We are aware that a profound change can only take place when the Rocco Code of 1930 comes into effect and the revision of the concepts of reliance, social danger and security measures; however, we must ensure that the extension we are preparing to vote, even if it is the result of errors, delays and failures, can become an opportunity: to arrive at the end of the further extension with a very small number of internees. The resources made available by the Government for the Regions, about 180 million in capital account to build the structures and 55 million in current expenditure to support the management, could be used by the Regions themselves in a better way, first to improve the structures already existing, modifying within a pre-defined period the programs already presented, while the resources for the current expenditure could serve to build therapeutic-rehabilitative projects tailored to each individual person, with the help of all institutional subjects and social compañeras present in the territories of belonging. We are also convinced that a genuine governance of overcoming the OPGs is necessary with the establishment of a steering booth in which all the institutions involved are represented, with monitoring, stimulus and coordination functions and with the obligation to make a regular report to Parliament. This governance is fundamental to avoid having to vote again on another extension or, worse, not to see the overcoming of the OPGs to public works problem. It is therefore essential that the REMS be considered only part of the path of care of the patients who are guilty of crime, a path that must include, in addition to the strengthening of territorial services, a careful regional monitoring of the treatment paths, the training of dedicated staff and the strengthening of psychiatric assistance in prison where, in addition to the serious problem of overcrowding of the environments, health care is absolutely lacking and precarious. I hope that the amendments tabled by the Health and Justice Commissions will be accepted as they give the decree under discussion greater credibility and allow us to hope that the path we have taken will actually lead to the cancellation not only of buildings but also of a system of assistance that does not work and that makes us ashamed to belong to a country that wants to call itself civil. I also hope that the adoption of a reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be possible, especially with regard to security measures and the judgment of social danger. If not, we will have betrayed the hopes of so many people who, instead of being cured and inserted into therapeutic-rehabilitative paths, will have been abandoned to themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u16	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u17	Madam President, we are here to examine a decree-law dealing with yet another postponement of the long-awaited closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals. Last year, in these times, we were in a similar situation and I remember that last May we reached the definitive approval of the decree-law to postpone a further year of the closure of the OPGs. We must therefore ask ourselves what action has been taken by the Regions, the Government and the Parliament, as far as it is within its competence, in order to prevent the situation being reached today, that is, the umpteenth postponement - I repeat - of the closure of the OPGs. It is necessary to do so, it is essential, in order to avoid falling back on the mistakes that have been made. It must be said that in the course of this year the institutions I have mentioned have maintained some continuity, except for some regional exceptions such as Basilicata and Trentino-Alto Adige, Südtirol: the regional councillors are the same, the Minister of Health is the same - Minister Lorenzin, who, while changing Government, remained at the same Ministry - and also Parliament is the same, as are the members of the Commissions. Where was he wrong? Who made the mistake? Probably everyone. From the text of the decree in question it can be deduced that the greater responsibilities fall on the Regions, which will now have more time to fulfil their obligations, under penalty of the commissionership. But are we sure the government couldn't have done more? Having provided in last year's decree-law a mere recognition of the situation, with the obligation to submit a report to Parliament by 30 November last last (date not respected) was little, too little. Let us remember that these delays are paid with great suffering by the many patients who are still hospitalized, as well as by all taxpayers for the greater burden they will incur. In this case time is not only money, but also suffering and pain. Let's see now what is new about the measure: in six months' time it would trigger the possible commissioning for the defaulting Regions; moreover, it is established the duty for the judge, also of surveillance, to verify if instead of the hospitalization in an OPG can be adopted against the infirm of mind a different measure of security. I also hope that this six-month deadline to fulfil the legal obligations of the regions (which, however, we remember, have had years to respect them, since the first legislative interventions date back to 2008) will be reduced to three months, as some amendments to our examination today provide. Having said that, I wonder why the Government needs this additional instrument of commissioning it is already in possession, as Article 120 of the Constitution is applicable, which guarantees it a substitute power in case of failure of the Regions and of any other local authority. I repeat, this is stated in the Constitution in Article 120. In addition, the Government also has a legislative instrument, namely Article 8 of Law No 131 of 5 June 2003, which specifically provides for cases where it is possible to intervene in place of the defaulting institution. In the report presented to Parliament last December (so not by 30 November, i.e. late) we read that the Lombardy Region (I take this case because it is the Region in which I was elected and where I live) provides between 20 and 32 months for the preparation of three new structures in Brescia, Milan and Como, for 120 beds, and the adaptation of the current OPG of Castiglione delle Stiviere. This resolution of the Junta is of 14 May 2013 and previews an expense of beyond 33 million euros; for completeness of information, the subsequent deliberation of October extended also to a possible support for the necessities of the Valle d'Aosta the objectives of the Lombardy Region. Therefore, it is clear already that the Lombardy Region is in guilty delay if we calculate even 20 months from May 2013; therefore, in six months (or, as I hope, in three months) the government verification will therefore be negative. I therefore invite the Government to immediately commission the Lombardy Region (I say this as an example), if we are already certain that it will not be able to respect the scheduled times. That is, we risk to meet again next year of these times to discuss yet another decree of extension of the closure of the OPGs. We value those who are responsible and try to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u18	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u19	Madam President, we are intervening in this debate not without pointing out a certain regret for the further extension of the stay in our territory of these so-called places of horror, as the President of the Republic of Naples has called them. We hope that this will really be the last extension, even if at the same time we must take note of the effort made by the Government that, in view of the repeated failures of the Regions, according to our modest opinion provides two important innovations in the decree under consideration: the Commissariat of the Regions (although, as has been said, the Government would already have had the opportunity to implement it for the failing Regions) and the duty of the judge to verify if, instead of hospitalization in psychiatric judicial hospitals, a different security measure can be adopted. Therefore, Madam President, in the light of what has not been done in this last year, the extension has proved to be almost an inevitable, compulsory and at the same time appropriate choice. However, we would also like to express some reasonable doubt about the construction of these new structures called REMS (Residences for the execution of the security measure) for two reasons. In our opinion, they will be very expensive, it will take years to achieve them and they will even be ineffective, with the risk of repeating the experience of psychiatric hospitals and not solving problems. On the contrary, as some say, the real risk is that there will be no room for law, but they will continue to be considered as serpent pits and not places of equality and social inclusion, or to represent definitely so-called modern lagers, far enough from the eyes so that they do not disturb the quiet living and do not embarrass the public modesty. We have another and different thinking. We are convinced that the real problem is the need, no longer procrastinable, to completely overcome the legal mechanisms that have led to exclusion and isolation, as well as the scientific ones - let me say - such as the right to treatment, which has sometimes become an artate method and which, in some respects, has allowed the system to keep the psychiatric judicial hospitals standing. The Health and Health Commission, chaired by Senator De Biasi, in my opinion has worked very well and has approved a very important resolution of commitment to the Government, which traces the necessary and important paths such as, for example, the blocking of extensions to April 2015 or the obligation to the Regions to arrange, by May 15, 2015, the transmission of the individual programs of disposal of the inmates to March 31, 2014 with timely documentation to overcome the hospitalization in psychiatric hospitals. This provision will also be subject to verification at the LEA table, and sanctions or prizes will be provided to the Regions, depending on whether or not they will comply. Another path identified is the unlocking of resources to recruit staff for the national health system, the prohibition of security measures in future REMS or the Commissariat of the Regions that, at the date of April 2015, will still hospitalize people in the OPGs. And again, very important, the establishment of the steering booth with monitoring and coordination functions: however, we hope that this will not become a plethora, which decides not to decide. We hope, instead, that it can accompany the Regions and the ASLs in the path of overcoming the OPGs, and that it can also promote protocols of collaboration between the health companies, the mental health departments and the judiciary, so that perital advice can be guaranteed and, therefore, we can arrive at alternative measures and also resignation. All this, of course, will involve investment in resources to strengthen mental health services, providing them with staff, especially nursing, well-trained, so that there can be quality management of the psychiatric patient. That is also why, Madam President, we do not see very well the potential cuts in health and also this delegation to the regions on potential cuts, because we believe that, in the end, we can retrace a path whose logics have distinguished other governments. Such cuts, therefore, would inevitably damage especially the less well-off groups and would not allow to give answers to those who are hosted in the OPGs and who will never have a future. We therefore need certain rules and commitments which, once and for all, favour the implementation of alternative measures to exclusive and socially useless forms. So, there would be a lot to do right away. For example, ad hoc sections could be created, at least in the prisons of each region, so as to be able to recover the subjects who are hosted in psychiatric hospitals that, at the same time, could be immediately closed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Aiello, I invite you to conclude. AELLO (NCD). I shall conclude, Madam President, by reserving the right to continue my reasoning in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u21	Madam President, with this measure today we also decide to extend by one year, that is to say to 31 March 2015, the deadline for the final closure of the PNGs and their replacement with the new health facilities. But why do we need a further extension? The simplest answer would be that the Regions have requested it as they have not provided for the realization of the provisions of the decree, that is, the REMS and the organization of the custody to the Departments of mental health of the territories belonging to those who are considered in the conditions of exit from the OPGs (and from the REMS themselves, when there will be). However, we would be ingenious and we would escape our role as legislators and politicians if we did not admit that, alongside those guilty delays of the Regions, there is one more thing, I refer to the fact that today attention to the problems of mental health is absolutely insufficient: from politics, from institutions in general, as well as from a part of the world and professional knowledge. We have to say that there is a general theme, which consists in the fact that attention to all forms of discomfort is lived in a general way with difficulty, sometimes with insufferance, certainly with insufficient attention from those who, on the other hand, have to face this issue. Certainly, in times of crisis the social discomfort increases and it is certainly more difficult to identify and support the necessary interventions. But this does not justify the deployment that is sometimes recorded on these issues. We have a duty to start from the very discomfort in order to recover the ability to build a solidarity, cohesive and inclusive society. We need - and this is the fundamental point - a new pact between politics, institutions and professional knowledge, so that the issue of mental health can return to having in planning and management that priority assigned to it by Article 32 of the Constitution, which states: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community. Talking about culture and services related to mental health is no other matter than the issue of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals, but it is the essential condition for such closure (which must become truly binding, without further extensions) to be effective and for not replacing current psychiatric judicial hospitals perhaps better structures, but thought and managed with the logic of segregation. For this reason, it is important that, alongside the approval of this measure (which not only provides for an extension, but introduces particularly innovative elements), the Ministry immediately grants to the Regions resources in part current (that 55 million euros per year, which are still in the Ministry's coffers), planned and allocated for the recruitment of personnel to be allocated to the strengthening of DSM, which will have to be able to define individualized therapeutic treatment programs and also to welcome those who will be discharged by the OPGs and then by the residences for the execution of the health security measure. In fact, such treatments are not only health programs, but also undertake the definition of activities of territorial integration, of social and health networks, of reconstruction of family relationships. People who will no longer be assigned to the REMS, but territorial services will need not only a health care, but will also need, for example, to have places of residence: not all will have a family or, in any case, a family to return to, and not all families will be able to receive; even where the family exists, it will have to be supported by public services. This is why the amendment (which has been approved unanimously and which I hope will also be approved by the Assembly) which provides for the possibility for the Regions to amend by 15 June 2014 the programmes already submitted concerning the structures, in order to qualify the DSM and to contain the number of beds, thus providing the possibility of paying attention also to those alternative places to the REMS, to those realities that are and will have to be between the REMS themselves and the family home. Therefore, it is equally important - I stress - the obligation for the Regions to communicate to the Ministry of Health, by 1 October 2014, the state of implementation of the structures. In all this, the issue of strengthening DSM is essential. I quote only one fact: the Italian Society of Psychiatry notes that today in Italy there are 17 million Italians with problems of mental discomfort and that 1,200,000, i.e. 2 percent of the population, has an active file at DSM. This same Italian Society of Psychiatry, in a survey presented in November 2013, has emphasized that, in recent years, the active staff of DSM has suffered a very strong reduction, estimated at around 50 percent, of its employees; instead, today DSM are increasingly complex and articulated structures, that in recent years, compared to the reduction of staff, have seen increased skills and the users in charge. Unfortunately, today many DSM operators are precarious, with the consequent difficulty of not having professional continuity both in team work and in the continuity of treatment. The closure of the OPGs - which the Regions and the Government have the obligation to implement - makes the strengthening of territorial services even more urgent and urgent. That is why I insist - and I appeal to the representative of the Government - that the Ministry should immediately grant the regions those EUR 55 million allocated in part current for recruitment and at the same time, within the health pact that is being prepared, the theme of mental health is put by the Government to the Regions at the centre of the pact itself. In the same way, I believe that the Regions must immediately activate the recruitments, covered - precisely - by those 55 million euros, and address the issue of training aimed at the design and organization of therapeutic-rehabilitative paths and the needs of cultural mediation. In this respect, I would like to stress once again the importance of that amendment which clearly states that it must not be a suitable element to support the judgment of social danger (and therefore sending the only lack of individual therapeutic programmes to the OPGs today and to the REMS tomorrow). Parliament, the government, the regions and all of us have a duty to approve this measure and, above all, to implement it, with the commitment not to call for further extensions. I would like to thank the Health Commission for the important work it has done over the last few months. I am thinking of the various hearings with the representatives of the Regions, as well as the resolution approved or the conference on the issue of the OPGs, which today allows us to respond to the request for extension of the Regions, but with the identification of precise and precise conditions and actions. They are aimed at promoting resignation and alternative measures to detention, putting an end to those extensions of prison measures, largely due not to the social danger of people, but to the carelessness and impossibility of those institutions that should have taken charge of building an incredible individual rehabilitation project. To definitively close the OPGs today is a duty of civilization and solidarity; a duty that arises from the fact that no patient must ever be exposed to the risk of suffering damage to his health because restricted in a place that does not have the appropriate characteristics to really exercise a healing function. In the same way, no operator must be forced to work in an environment where there are no adequate conditions to exercise his mandate of care and assistance to users. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u22	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u23	Madam President, today we are faced with a situation that was predictable, as has been said in many previous speeches. It is clear that in a country like ours the fact that there are recurrences and postponements is certainly not something surprising, so it is not appropriate that I now focus on the reprobation of this bad custom. It is much more important in fact, in the face of such an important and delicate subject, to try to reason, as other colleagues have done, on what are the reasons and the issues that make it so profoundly difficult to resolve and dissolve this which is constituted as a knot of pain and difficulty, and which really concerns the last, the most forgotten among the forgotten. It seems to me that there are two different obstacles in this process: both at the cultural level and at the operational level. From the cultural point of view, today's society, as indeed yesterday's society - and hopefully not tomorrow's - has a difficult approach to mental illness, which is already in itself a source of isolation for the sick; let alone what becomes problematic when this disease induces behaviors of rupture with those rules of social coexistence thus leading to the marginalization of the sick. This triggers this painful spiral, which has found its epilogue in what were once called criminal handles, then OPG, without the change of name in fact allowing them to become structures of real care (we hope that the creation of the REMS is not a further change of name): a spiral from which it is clear that it is very difficult to get out, all the more difficult than to enter it. In this context it is clear, therefore, as Mrs Mattesini also said, that what is required must be a global approach and that this is the only way forward. This approach must be collective, lasting and not only concern health and judicial aspects, but must concern society as a whole. I believe that in this measure and in the debate before it was brought to the Chamber, in all the work that has actually been done over the course of a whole year, and as it emerges today in general debate, the risk is that the matter will turn into a sort of dispute between health and judicial aspects. I think it is necessary to get out of a dialectic between doctors and magistrates, because this then leads to those operational difficulties I mentioned earlier. I would like to give some examples, because these difficulties are also reflected in this provision. Let us take the definition of social danger: an amendment calls for the establishment of social danger to be carried out without taking into account the individual, family and social living conditions of the criminal, but we also know that these conditions are anything but irrelevant to the maintenance or, worse still, the reconquest of mental health itself. In the same way, when the problem of protective custody arises, the question is: in the structures of the hospital psychiatric service or in the erectile REMS, which should actually have a different function? Again: the spirit of the law was to bring the sick back to their context, surpassing the six OPGs located on the national territory and attributing to each Region the responsibility for the cure and spark of the reintegration of the recovered patients. But the report to Parliament last December shows - as Mr Orellana has already pointed out - a great disparity in the way in which the regions have dealt with this issue. At the end of the examination of this measure, whatever its outcome - it will probably be approved - I believe that we must all have the objective of giving those certainties that the measure obviously did not give and of making serious commitments in the strict monitoring; in the clarity of the nature and function of the REMS, so that they do not become mini-OPGs; the determination of capacities and willingness to adapt both the penal code and ordinary prisons through a reflection on prison health. We need to consolidate the cure with every instrument rather than detention. Above all, the problem must be tackled not from the point of view of illness, but of mental health, with every form of analysis of the theme of aid, support and investment in prevention, care and protection. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u24	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u25	Madam President, at the end of 2011, in the wake of indignation, inevitably caused by the spread of footage on inhuman treatments to which internees were subjected in some of the OPGs and in Italian nursing homes, legislative measures were adopted converted into law in February 2012 (the famous Law No 9 of 2012). It was established that, within a year, the OPGs would have to close down. The program for the closure, in truth extremely vague and inaccurate - has always forgotten the house of care and women's custody of the prison of Sollicciano, perhaps because women, but I don't know - provided the opening in each Region of residences for the execution of the prison security measures, the so-called REMS, to health management only and with the possible external control of the police forces. It also provided for therapeutic and treatment programmes, including residential programmes where appropriate, to reduce the judicial internment of psychiatric patients who have committed crime through their treatment by the Department of Territorial Mental Health. By March 31, 2013, the OPGs should have closed, but in a year we have already reached the second extension. This has happened because, with all the evidence, the program for overcoming the OPGs has been formulated by those who did not have sufficient technical competence of the matter. As this incompetence remains, it can easily be expected that in 2015 a further extension will be made for the closure of the OPGs. How can one think, in fact, of dealing in approximate and confused terms with such a delicate and explosive matter as that of mental suffering in the places of detention? How can you think of closing the OPGs by leaving unchanged the rules of criminal codes and criminal procedures that govern criminal liability, rebuttal, expertise and the application of prison and non-convict security measures? Furthermore, it must be made clear that the problem of OPGs and serious psychic discomfort in detention places cannot be tackled and resolved only by talking about OPGs. The patients who were interned in OPG in Italy were 1,170 at 31 March 2014, of which little more than 800 were acquitted by total or partial vice of mind (internates ex Articles 222 and 219 of the penal code). In Annex A) to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April 2008, containing guidelines for the transfer of health care to the Ministry of Health, we find it written that one tenth of the prisoners suffer from serious mental illness, such as psychosis and severe depression. As all the serious research carried out in Italy and around the world points out, these are estimates by default. However, even considering only 10% of prisoners with psychosis and major depression, we would currently have another 6,000 serious patients in ordinary prisons who receive even more inhumane treatment than those who receive OPG internees. The problem of overcoming the OPGs must therefore be addressed at the same time as that of mental health care in ordinary institutions of punishment. In order to do this, in order not to resort to the usual unnecessary extension at the end of March 2015, it is necessary to proceed in a different way from now on. First, it appoints in a very short time a multidisciplinary committee of real experts in the field (up to eight people) to amend the parts of the Code of Criminal Procedure and not the specific working group provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April 2008, which has already proved not to be effective. Secondly, these amendments have been approved in a short time. Thirdly: implementation, within three years, of all the relevant measures indicated by the amendments, such as the establishment and construction of the REMS; the strong involvement of the territorial mental health departments; the important strengthening of mental health care within the ordinary prison institutions; the adoption of what, in the draft law of the Regions, was defined as the probationary reliance on mental health services; the establishment of reduced custody sections or departments intended for defendants sentenced with mental illness occurred during the detention measure. Without these measures, the overcoming of judicial internment will remain a mirage and the number of internees will continue to grow, as already happens in the OPGs of Naples and Secondigliano, and psychiatric patients who commit crime will continue to receive the inhumane treatment they currently receive in the OPGs and prisons by the regional health services. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u26	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u27	Madam President, even today, three years later, it has not been possible, except because of extensions, to solve the dramatic problem of the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. On the part of governments there has been no monitoring such as that which assures this Government about the situation of these 1,000 people and we hope that, once again, the Regions will not forget the people secreted in the OPGs. This umpteenth extension has been defined by many State shames. The spotlight on the OPGs turned on after the survey started in 2008 by the Committee of Inquiry into the National Health Service, to investigate in the field of psychiatry and pathological addictions. There was no difference between political majorities and Decree-Law No 211 of 22 December 2011, which was subsequently converted into Law No 9 of 17 February 2012. The law provided that the security measures of hospitalization in psychiatric judicial hospital and the assignment to nursing homes were carried out exclusively within the structures the requirements of which are established by decree issued by the Minister of Health, adopted in agreement with the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. During the last parliamentary term, with regard to the amendment to the bill to convert the decree-law on justice, there were some concerns about security. Parliament, with great force, this time must state its firm intention to heal a stigma. The sick psychiatrists are as sick as the others are, and they return, when they are so framed, to be treated with the same attention as the others; and I remember that this is not a great drama in economic terms. It is necessary to amend the current system which allows the safety measure to be applied once and for all, providing for the periodic re-evaluation of health treatment and the establishment of public intermediate care facilities. The Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service has carried out a survey of psychiatric judicial hospitals and has shown with dismay the sanitary degradation of many structures, the total lack of adequate care and the unacceptableness of some detention measures, so as to arrive at the provision of seizure measures at two hospitals. The investigation revealed the practice, which violates the rights of freedom enshrined in the Constitution, to extend the admission of those who have lost their social danger to the OPGs, in the absence of a therapeutic project and of a taking charge of the patient by ASL. It is therefore necessary to provide for early action aimed at adapting the premises and equipment of the OPGs, introducing a new organisation of health care, a closer link between the judiciary and territorial psychiatric services, the creation of public intermediate shelter facilities, the review of individual cases and the development of an individual rehabilitation project. The insanable contradiction of a measure based on the binomial prison-maniac managed in places that produce suffering, degradation, violation of the dignity and fundamental rights of people can no longer be tolerated in a civil country. Even today we are witnessing the odious survival of these places that do not cure, but are limited to containing people whose care no one wants to take on, even when it is established that the social danger that has caused its internment is lacking. The responsibility for solving the specific penitentiary problem must necessarily be shared with other institutional entities, reaching complete health care, on the model of Castiglione delle Stiviere, overcoming the presence of the Prison Police, often engaged in non-its own tasks, and entrusting its complete management to the National Health Service. Any recovery and, in any case, the right to care in structures which at the same time protect the safety of citizens must be ensured. And on this Force Italy will watch. In fact, the judge's duty is to check whether, instead of hospitalization in a psychiatric judicial hospital, a different measure of security provided for by law can be adopted in relation to the infirmity, capable of providing adequate care for it and dealing with its social danger. Similarly, the supervisory magistrate is expected to do the same. And here again there is the problem of the civil responsibility of the magistrates, who should carefully evaluate the state of the patient, in order to avoid cases of release of socially dangerous subjects, precisely because of the carelessness of some surveillance judges, as has often already happened. I hope that after all the efforts and work that have been done over the years, it will not happen again that the agreements made will not be maintained. On this subject the government did not move with the usual speed. Maybe because it's just 1,000 people who don't vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u28	Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u29	Madam President, since many of my fellow Senators have already pointed out several aspects of the bill under discussion, I will try to be quick and not repetitive. The measure under consideration today is intended to add a further, truly inescapable, inevitable and definitive piece to the long-standing question of overcoming and therefore closing psychiatric judicial hospitals. As already defined by the rapporteurs, the process of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals had an important impetus in 2008 with the guidelines for interventions in psychiatric hospitals and nursing homes, included in Annex C of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April of that year. Those normative guidelines have been supplemented with successive agreements and provisions and redefined further by Decree-Law No. 24 of 25 March 2013, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 57 of 23 May 2013. All the acts of direction and the regulatory indications that have followed over time regarding the health part provide for the adoption of programmatic measures with the proactive involvement of the mental health departments and this in order to make concrete the taking into consideration of health and care of all subjects - prisoners and internees - with mental disorders. The health responsibility of the regions takes on particular importance vis-à-vis the subjects - authors of facts constituting crime - acquitted as suffering from mental disorders; subjects to whom is applied the measure of security detention of hospitalization in psychiatric judicial hospital or of the assignment to home of care and custody or other interventions alternative to the measure of detention security, such as the custody of the territorial health services. With Law No 9 of 17 February 2012, and subsequent amendments, it is still confirmed what has already been outlined in previous acts of direction and is further defined the organizational and functional structure of the services to be carried out. Also under Law No. 9 it is also defined the allocation to the Regions and Autonomous Provinces of special financing, both in capital account and in current part, in order to realize what is identified. Each region, among other actions, had to establish, in one of the prisons of its territory, a specific section dedicated to the intramurary protection of the mental health of the restricted persons in the institutes of the territory of competence; it had to realize regional residential structures for the subjects to which the measure of security of hospitalization in psychiatric hospital judicial or assignment in house of care and custody or in residential sanitary structures for the execution of the safety measures (the so-called REMS). Above all, however, the regions had to prepare individual and personalised therapeutic, welfare and rehabilitation programmes, both to reduce as much as possible the permanence of those involved in the internment regime, and to implement interventions aimed at the inclusion of these subjects in the territory of reference and, therefore, in the social context. It is therefore obvious the particular importance given to the involvement of health and healthcare workers; relevance and attention - constantly repeated in all legislative regulations - to the realization of what is laid down, in the evident awareness that without such involvement it is difficult to overcome the logic of imprisonment, marginalization, social concealment of the phenomenon and the culture of stigma. To confirm what has been said, I recall Law No 57 of 23 May 2013. For the implementation of what is planned, by way of derogation from the current provisions relating to the containment of staff expenditure, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, including those that have signed the return plans from health deficits, subject to permission of the Minister of Health assumed in agreement with the Minister for simplification and public administration and the Minister of Economics and Finance, can hire qualified staff to devote also to the therapeutic-rehabilitative paths aimed at the recovery and social reintegration of interned patients from psychiatric judicial hospitals. Those operators are essential to ensure the functioning of the psychiatric sections inside the prisons; to ensure the functioning of the residential health facilities for the execution of detention measures (the REMS); to facilitate the discharge and take-over by the services of the mental health department of the persons to whom the measure of security of hospitalization in judicial psychiatric hospital or of the assignment to the home of care and custody is applied. Through those operators, in fact, therapeutic, welfare and rehabilitation programs can be prepared that can develop in a continuous and coordinated way, with the taking charge of the health of each individual subject, from the moment when it is the recipient of a detention safety measure. The mandate for operators - nurses, professional educators, doctors, social workers - is to activate every initiative aimed at the discharge of the patient subjected to a contentious measure or detention safety, including it in specific therapeutic, welfare and territorial rehabilitation programs. It must not be forgotten that that person is a patient of the mental health department and that, as such, he must be treated, assisted and included in a care process like any other patient, even if in collaboration with the administration of justice, where competent. It is therefore particularly significant what is reiterated in the bill of conversion of the decree-law that we are examining today and it is fundamental that it is given binding implementation both to the recruitment of health personnel already planned and defined, and to the organization of training courses for operators in the sector aimed at the design and organization of therapeutic-rehabilitative paths and to the needs of cultural mediation. An adequate number of doctors, nurses, educators and other socio-sanitary operators operating in multi-professional logic, not only will contribute in an absolutely significant way to the resignation from the OPGs, now, and from the REMS, after, but will avoid those re-collections and re-institutionalizations that with this bill you want to overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u30	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u31	I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u32	Madam President, I speak very quickly. Together with my co-rapporteur Dalla Zuanna, I have listened to the speeches that have been made and, as we have stated and as widely planned, the fundamental issues on which the debate has focused are those relating to the confrontation, so to speak, between two constitutionally protected interests: on the one hand, the protection of the person - also held, even interned, even supervised - for the necessary aspects of dignity and respect for the same and, on the other hand, the security needs and, therefore, the protection of the community against criminal acts that are serious or very serious. From this point of view, therefore, some of the amendments prepared by the Commissions meeting 2a and 12a have taken charge of these reports, also in an attempt to intervene, as organic and systematic as possible, on this complicated and delicate matter, which travels between the Code of Criminal Procedure, for the part concerning the measures relating to detention for sane people, and the aspects which concern, instead, the particularity of social danger. These aspects should therefore be combined, as should the profiles of the ordinary court and those of the supervisory tribunal. As we proceed with the presentation and examination of the amendments, we will also take into account the minor changes made to some of these amendments individually.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u33	I call the rapporteur, Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u34	Madam President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u35	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only make a few quick reflections. The decree-law under consideration is born, as has been indicated, from a chronological necessity, a deadline, and therefore, being an extension, we are not at the peak of good practices in the normative and administrative life of our country. This extension, as many have mentioned, has also been determined by the implementation of a plan for overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. I would like to remind this House that that rule was born - you will allow me the metaphor - on board a regulatory vehicle such as the so-called decree emptys prisons, in a context that may not have been that of a broad debate, such as this type of structure and this sedimented administrative history - which obviously appears today, in a very acceptable way, out of time - would have required. Surely there have been delays, and it seems to me that the same report, which was sent to Parliament a few days late, as indicated, compared to 30 November 2013, had pointed out very precisely and precisely what the delays were, what the projects were, which regions had pushed a little more than this type of programmes and which others were in a situation that was certainly more complicated from this point of view. Although this decree-law has followed the passages made necessary by a chronology that you yourself pointed out in the discussion, I must say that the Government has collaborated very much for this extension to be included in a decree-law of easy conversion and has worked very hard to ensure that some elements of a very important and roboating cultural debate in our country are already contained in this operation of conversion of this bill. The monitoring system has been greatly strengthened, and it has been introduced, as you will also notice from the amendments we share and on which we have, I hope virtuously and positively, collaborated with the Commissions, more penetrating instruments of sanction in the institutional relationship that must always be correct, avoiding undue incursions into competences that are regional, but certainly recalling all levels of the Republic to a responsibility with respect to this issue. There has certainly been a path of overcoming the OPGs with a clearer definition of the REMS, and it seems to me that in one of the amendments that have been accepted by the Government there is a fundamental passage in cultural terms, which is the one relating to the definition of the social danger of these subjects. In this sense, although it is a step determined by an unfulfilled deadline, I would like to stress positively the work that Parliament has done and also the attention that we have paid to this issue, as Senator De Biasi, President of the Commission, to whom the Government has participated, is well aware, which has been very important for the adoption of a resolution that has determined the institutional and cultural contours of the work that we are developing today. The Government has tried to be careful and to participate very carefully in that process of debate within the Commission. Not only do I believe that all this work that has developed over the past few days and weeks will produce the conversion of a decree of extension, but much more believe in the spirit of a debate that, before being political and institutional, is very strong in cultural terms in our country and that we have tried to listen with the attention it deserved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u37	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments to it, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u38	Madam President, I attach great importance to Amendment 1.1, which deletes point (b), and I would like to remind the House as a whole of the commitment we made a few years ago in giving a negative judgment to psychiatric judicial hospitals. We identified then, as Senator Manconi will recall, who supported the opportunity of a shorter iter for the suppression of psychiatric judicial hospitals, a path that had to last even two years, providing funding for the regions for interventions on the National Health Service that amounted to 55 million in 2013 and 38 million in 2012. Well, as I scroll through the accompanying report of the decree-law, I do not take any element of assessment. It is only said that some regions have not completed the path of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. But in the Commission - not having been present at the first sessions devoted to this measure - I have heard that, apparently, that money from the Ministry of Justice would not have been spent, because the regions did not request it. If so, then I understand the difficulty for which that letter b is introduced today, reasoning in completely different terms from the cultural point of view: it is said that the judge, if he is to apply a security measure, sends the prisoner - semi-firm or mentally ill - to a structure other than the psychiatric hospital, except that - take care - there is not a structure suitable to ensure the care that the psychiatric hospital can guarantee him. If so, then why are we suppressing psychiatric judicial hospitals? It is not possible to have this difference of assessment put back to the judge! In fact, they will eventually have to say: "Mah, the psychiatric hospital is the only one able to assure that cure." Do you realize that it is something that squeals with logic and with Italian? Moreover, if this decree-law only postpones the extension until 31 March 2015 (and I remind everyone that we are at the end of April 2014), do you realize that therefore the Government, as expected - and here I agree - will even have substitute powers if in the next semester the Regions have not intervened? I cannot therefore understand not only the need for this letter b), but also that of a series of amendments adopted by the Joint Commissions which provide training courses and interventions by the Regions. I would like to understand whether we have to give the feeling that the postponement to 2015 is a falsehood and that it is a measure without content, in which once again we postpone the term with intermediate interventions, that they guarantee that this structure will continue for years and who knows when we will have a National Health Service able to replace psychiatric hospitals judicial. For this reason, I stress the need to approve amendment 1.1, which responds to the following philosophy: if we are to vote on the conversion of the decree-law (and we must do so in order to extend the extension, since certain works have not been completed), let us content ourselves with the unbridled text of letter b), and with the second paragraph, which gives the Government the possibility to intervene and replace the Regions where they do not provide. Entering everything else means not wanting to eliminate psychiatric judicial hospitals. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u39	Madam President, in relation to everything that has been said about the difficulty and malaise with regard to the postponement of the overcoming of judicial psychiatric hospitals, as anticipated in the general discussion by Mr Orellana, in the two amendments we have signed, we propose that the time for monitoring should be limited, so that the regions have more stringent and shorter deadlines.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u40	Madam President, I would like to briefly outline the two amendments signed by Senator Manconi and myself, namely 1.13 and 1.15. Both go in the direction of eliminating the idea of internamento sine die of the subjects considered socially dangerous. Amendment 1.13 in particular provides that the final detention security measure cannot be extended to those internees who need a territorial responsibility and an alternative security measure, and that this cannot be done simply because of the lack of territorial responsibility. Amendment 1.15, for its part, envisages linking the final detention security measure to the time set for the detention penalty for the crime committed. The idea is that security measures may not last longer than the penalty that would have been imposed on the offender in the event that the offence was found to be attributable. For this purpose we ask to link the application of the security measure to the time set for the prison sentence, except for the crimes for which the law establishes the sentence of life imprisonment, a measure that we believe represents in our law the legacy of a conception of the penalty not as an instrument of rehabilitation and reeducation but as an ultimate instrument of revenge by the State and that for this reason we hope can be eliminated in general from our system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u41	Madam President, Amendment 1.18 provides that, with reference to paragraph 2, first sentence, of Article 1, after the words "judicial psychiatric hospital" are added the words "with particular reference to the implementation of therapeutic-rehabilitative pathways aimed at the recovery and social reintegration of patients who are interned" are added. The aim is to clarify the obligation for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to report on the state of progress of the implementation of the therapeutic-rehabilitative pathways aimed mainly at the recovery and social reintegration of interned patients. The objective we want to achieve with this amendment is to clarify that the completion of procedures aimed at overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals must not only be aimed at the establishment of the REMS but also at the realization of a rehabilitation path for the subject. Amendment 1.21 instead proposes to insert in paragraph 2 of Article 1 an amendment to Decree-Law No 211, according to which after the words "qualified staff" to be dedicated, contained in article 3-b, paragraph 5, of the decree, the word "also" is deleted. We want in fact that, with reference to the containment of the expenditure for the qualified staff to be dedicated also to therapeutic-rehabilitative routes aimed at the recovery and reintegration of the internees, it is specified that the derogation provided by the norm is conditioned to the fact that the recruitment of qualified staff is aimed specifically at the realization of therapeutic-rehabilitative paths. However, if this amendment were to be rejected by the Government, we are also prepared to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to ask for some attention from the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Azzollini, with regard to the contrary opinion expressed by the Budget Committee itself on Amendment 1.11 (text 2). I propose an amendment to the text of the amendment to add, after the words "no new or increased burden on the budget of the State" to the following: "in the context of the resources already allocated". It is an amendment to which I attach great importance. First of all, because, in the face of yet another extension, we need it to be filled with content, and the content of the training is fundamental: without the training of the operators it will be very difficult to guarantee the therapeutic pathways required. Secondly, the amendment also addresses the issue of immigration, to which I believe we must pay attention. When, in fact, immigration is also referred to the difficulties of linguistic understanding; therefore, there is also a need to form cultural mediators who are able first to discern who is serious, who really has mental pathologies, who does not have them and, secondly, to apply therapeutic paths close to the cultures belonging to the internees. Otherwise, it would be really very difficult for these subjects any rehabilitation path. Thirdly, I would add that there is a problem regarding the safety of citizens such that, if there are cases such as that of that gentleman who does not speak Italian and who has peaked people in Milan at 6 am, it is quite clear that, until there is someone who interprets his language, it will also be very difficult to establish the levels of punishment. With this rewording, I would therefore ask President Azzollini and the Committee on Budgets to go back to the opinion expressed, because it is really crucial for a proper overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals. Otherwise, in fact, we will find ourselves with an extension that will have only a part of the contents, which will be exclusively criminal, while I think that the social, health and rehabilitation part must be the heart of this extension, which we hope is just the last.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u43	Madam President, as has been announced, there has been a rewording of amendment 1.2 of the Commissions. As Commissions, we took responsibility for the observations, which we shared and shared in part, of Senator Caliendo in relation to letter b) of paragraph 1 of the decree-law of the Government. In particular, reference is made to the provisions concerning the infirmity of mind and the semi-sickness of mind. In order to respond also to the indications that came to us from the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 253 of 2003 and also to resolve in this transitional phase in particular the doubts cases, the Commissions had, during their work, replaced the aforementioned letter b) with the text that results from the fascicoletto of the amendments prepared for the Chamber. At this stage, accepting indications that have occurred during the general discussion and taking into account the content of amendment 1.2 as well as amendment 1.6, which essentially intervened on the same subject, we have done the reconjunction or in any case the rewording of amendment 1.2, which has been re-absorbed in itself by amendment 1.6. Therefore, Madam President, if you will allow me, I would point out what the amendments are, and I have already given the written text to the secretariat of this House, including for the transmission of the budget to the Commission for the ritual opinion. However, in order to remain in the proceedings of our work, I read the new rewording (text 3) of amendment 1.2: "In paragraph 1, replace letter b) by the following: " (b) after the first period the following are added: " (this is the part of merit) " 'The judge provides for the application of a security measure, even on a provisional basis, other than admission to a psychiatric hospital or a nursing home, except where evidence is acquired from which it appears that any other measure is not suitable to ensure adequate care and to cope with its social danger, the determination of which is carried out on the basis of the subjective qualities'" (thus skip the adverb's uniquely) '" of the person and without taking into account the conditions referred to in Article 133, second paragraph, number 4, of the penal code. In the same way, the supervisory magistrate shall ensure that he intervenes in accordance with Article 679 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.'" I conclude by saying that we have handed over the text to the Secretariat of the House for forwarding to the 5th Commission as well as to the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of this rewording, which is text 3 of amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u45	Madam President, as rapporteur, I propose a rewording of amendment 1,15, signed by Senators Manconi and Lo Giudice, who would thus absorb amendment 1.5 (text 2). The logic of this reformulation is to meet certain needs. The first, as has been well said also in the intervention of Senator Lo Giudice, is to avoid, as far as possible, the so-called white life sentences of people who are not able to understand and want but who, with continuous extensions, find themselves to remain years and years within the OPG. At the same time, however, the objective is to avoid opportunisms, i.e. to avoid attempts, through the simulation of mental illness, not to serve the sentence and to have shorter periods of permanence. The last point, of course, is to avoid risks to public security. I therefore proceed to read the proposed reformulation for amendment 1.15 which, at this point, would absorb amendment 1.5 (text 2). [[Brusio.]] Madam President, it is not possible to work with this confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u46	Colleagues, we are doing a work on the text. We therefore need attention and a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u47	Please, Senator Dalla Zuanna. BY THE ZUANNA, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. The new text of amendment 1.15 reads as follows: The definitive prison security measures, including the admission to residences for the execution of security measures (i.e. in the Rems) may not last longer than the time set for the prison sentence for the offence committed, having regard to the maximum edittal forecast. Article 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply to the determination of the penalty for such effects. For life sentences, the rule of the first sentence shall not apply. That is the proposal of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u48	The Presidency calls on the authors of amendments 1.15 and 1.5 (text 2) to express their views on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u49	Madam President, on behalf of Senator Manconi, the first signatory to amendment 1.15, I accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteurs, stressing that we would have preferred to maintain that passage of our amendment which stated that, for the offences for which the law lays down the sentence of life imprisonment, Article 222 (2) of the penal code applies. However, with a view to achieving a common wording, we accept the wording proposed by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u50	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 1.5 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u51	I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to give his opinion on the reworded amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u52	Madam President, from what I understand to this point, there are four rewordings of amendments: amendment 1.2 (text 2) proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Casson; then there is the new wording of amendment 1.15, tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Dalla Zuanna; finally, there are amendments 1.9 (text 2) and 1.11 (text 2). Discussing with President De Biasi and Senator Dirindin, we have endeavoured to find a new wording on Amendment 1.11 (text 2) in order to meet the objections raised by the Budget Committee. For Amendment 1.9 (text 2) there are still problems. Senators De Biasi and Dirindin made me understand the meaning of the amendment, but as it is formulated it is not good and therefore the opinion against it remains, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. This is a classic innovation: there are new courses, which - if I am not mistaken - are called personal discharge programmes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u53	They are called individual discharge programmes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u54	Mr Azzollini (NCD). I'm a quid novi, so they need cover. If we work on, as we have done with Amendment No 1.11 (text 2) we can try to formulate a text that satisfies the Budget Commission. I mean, with regard to amendment 1.9 (text 2), which was endorsed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance because that amendment was carefully discussed. We must therefore think calmly about it. Therefore, Madam President, under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot express my views. In order to help the House, I can urgently convene the 5th Commission at the end of this House so that tomorrow morning you can have the opinions, but the number of amendments tabled and the issues raised do not allow me to give an opinion now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u55	We take note of the assessment made by the President of the Budget Commission. It seems to me that these are central amendments in the context of the measure. Therefore, these amendments are forwarded to the Budget Committee for evaluation. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u58	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to inform the House quickly of what has happened here in the Senate today in connection with a recommendation from the Government in recent days. This morning there was a demonstration in Rome, at the Esquilino, by the 512 students (in fact, lacked students) agents of the State Police, who claimed the right to complete the path that should lead them to be public security agents, police officers. This is a well-known issue, which has been signed with several formulas, questions and other acts in the two Chambers. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u59	Colleagues, I'm sorry, Senator Candiani is trying to talk. The sitting is not over yet, and I therefore ask you to allow him to speak. Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I said that several acts were presented in the two Chambers, which nevertheless stressed the importance of finding a solution to this issue. Mr Rossi himself, in recent days, has taken the trouble in this House to follow up on this matter. Today, with Senator Pezzopane and other senators, we met here in the Senate with a representative. On this occasion I intend to give voice and a first follow-up to that meeting. Now the government needs to play its part. In this case we, as political forces, are setting an example in the sense of looking beyond the different political positions, in order to find a solution. However, it is necessary that the breakthrough - if there is to be - be more than good, with fast times and practical answers. For our part, as the Lega Nord Group, there will be attention and support to any initiative that gives Expo 2015 the necessary resources, in terms of security, that have long been expected, and to these people, these resources for the country, the possibility to dress the uniform for which they have carried out a legitimate competition. I believe that there will be a meeting in the coming days and that we will also be followed by other representatives of this House in order to be able to meet the Government in an official manner. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u63	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, I rise to support what Mr Candiani has said and to inform the House of a very positive meeting that we held just now with a large delegation of eligible students and winners of the State Police competition. These young people, with their union representatives, rely on the common sense and ability of the Government and Parliament to give a rapid response, because if the response is not rapid the effort made will be useless. Therefore, I appeal to you, President Lanzillotta, who is now chairing the session, and to your fellow senators representing the government to act quickly. With the delegation of the young eligible students and winners of competition we have assumed an appointment with the various ministries competent, and on this front we are activating in these hours. I hope that there will be the support of all political forces to urge Minister Alfano and Minister of Defence to resolve this which is an easy-to-solve problem and which would immediately respond to the security needs not only of Expo 2015 but also of other emergency areas. I repeat that it is truly surprising that, while we adopt laws that tend to save state resources, in the face of a competition already carried out, we are making another competition that will not give an adequate response in certain and necessary times for Expo 2015, when instead there is the possibility of giving a quick response at zero cost.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-236.ana.u65	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.25 a.m.
