ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 17 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u4	The next item is the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator or Senator will write on his card a single name. He or she who obtains the highest number of votes will be elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call has been made, the ballot boxes will remain open until 12 noon while the Assembly will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. He asked to vote first, and the Presidency granted it, Senator Lai. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. Let us now proceed in alphabetical order. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. (The voting operations followed). I declare closed the vote of the senators present at this time in this House. I would remind my fellow Members that the urn will remain open until 12 noon to allow those who have not yet voted to do so. (The urn remains open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u5	I greet a representative of the Pinerolian Workshops in Pinerolo, in the province of Turin, who is following our work from the gallery. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u8	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, the House is taking up its work. I call on those who still have to vote to do so, one at a time, without disturbing. DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, as it turns out that the 5th Commission has not yet delivered its opinion on the amendments to the Decree-Law on urgent measures to overcome psychiatric hospitals, in order to improve the organisation of our work, I propose, on behalf of eight senators, that the agenda be reversed and that the motion 1-00148 on the treatment of Alzheimer's patients be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u9	As there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00148 tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators on the treatment of Alzheimer's patients. I call Senator De Biasi to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u11	Thank you, President. [[Brusio.]] If it were possible to have some silence...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u12	Colleagues, please. I urge only those who still have to vote to approach the urn. Everyone else is begged to sit down and be quiet, otherwise you can't listen to Senator De Biasi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u13	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, allow me to begin by thanking the Health and Health Commission, which unanimously tabled this motion, of which I am first a signatory as President, and which, I repeat, has received the consent of the entire Commission. I would also like to thank those colleagues who have asked to sign this motion. This is a very positive fact which, in my opinion, has the significance of pointing out the urgency of this disease. A global survey shows that dementia and Alzheimer's diseases are more afraid of cancer. People are particularly frightened, and in a general way (you can understand this), by a pathology that in the coming years will see a doubling of cases around the world, and not only because of the ageing of the population, a trait that affects our country very closely: we know that Alzheimer's also affects people under the age of 50. There is therefore a particularly urgent need for prompt intervention, as far as our country is concerned, by the Government. We know that the guidelines on Alzheimer's are already under discussion at a technical table, and we hope that they will be adopted as soon as possible. We allow ourselves to raise some points of discussion that can then be satisfied with these guidelines. The first thing that I think should be said about context is that in order to treat Alzheimer's, we must first of all deal with an early diagnosis, which is not always carried out by the structures of our National Health Service. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u14	I would ask all the senators and senators in this House to lower their voices. I ask for this, please, also because the issue is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u15	DE BIASI (PD). Yes, here too please, if I may, I would like to ask my colleagues who are taking care of the OPGs not to do so right here. That's not possible! As I was saying, Alzheimer's is a disease from which at present it does not heal, although we know that scientific research is identifying progressively more appropriate drugs. At present it is one of the classic neurodegenerative diseases that slowly loses memory, slowly loses the faculty of language, slowly loses sense of self, and perhaps it is because of this lack of self-awareness that it is a disease that scares in a very particular way. The world's data is shocking. According to a study by the World Center on Alzheimer's disease, Alzheimer's disease international, published by the scientific magazine . "The Lancet", there are 24.3 million people with dementia in the world today: 4.6 million new patients per year, one case every 7 seconds, and the figure is set to double in the next twenty years until, in 2040, to 81.1 million people suffering from Alzheimer's disease. In industrialized countries it is expected that the disease will grow by 100 percent, while in some countries in Southeast Asia and the Western Pacific the growth will be even 200 percent. According to data from 2011 Alzheimer's patients in Italy would be one million, with an annual increase quantifiable in about 150,000 new cases. On the basis of these alarming figures, I believe that our call to Governments, to the scientific and medical world and to public opinion to become aware and act accordingly is not in vain. Our country has a very fast aging rate, with a very alarming demographic trait, but I would like it to be clear that the answer cannot be a contentious response: we have very serious problems that primarily concern the support of families and the training of doctors and health personnel, so as to build around the Alzheimer's patient an environment that is favourable. Favorable to what? [[Brusio.]] Ma'am, you're having a hard time. Can I tell you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is also a problem of respect for everyone. Let's see if with this fourth call we can have some silence. Please, Senator De Biasi. DE BIASI (PD). Let's try. I was saying: it is a matter of building a favourable environment for people with Alzheimer's disease. For a long time it was thought that it was sufficient for the sick person to remain at home, in the family, within the family ties. This is no longer the case: we know that there are improvements, of course temporary, but at least there are no regressions, the more the Alzheimer's sufferer is placed in a social context. It is therefore very important that the intervention is not exclusively within the family, in the family, in the home, but also that the person affected by Alzheimer's stays in a day center, in a socio-sanitary center, in a health home, that is, in a territorial place where he can receive from the outside stimuli that help: there is no doubt about this. Secondly, we ask for an early and timely diagnosis; a pharmacological and non-pharmacological use, therefore an intervention that moves on a broader keyboard; the reliance on territorial teams that are able to work with specific skills; the availability of socio-sanitary structures of temporary reception, also as a form of relief, as is quite evident, for families. We also call for innovation, if possible - I understand that it is very difficult in this country, but also in this House - the way in which we relate to neurodegenerative patients... [[Brusio. References by the President]] We see it in so many other diseases, but the problem with Alzheimer's is that it's all seemingly normal, but it's not. Therefore, it would also be appropriate to provide for residential places specifically dedicated to these people. There are already good, good practices in our country. I believe, however, that we can improve, so much so that we definitely ask that Alzheimer's should be concentrated in the LEAs, that is, there is the possibility of intervention by the National Health Service in a specific way. Finally, we call for health education aimed at the population to improve their awareness and the correct ways to relate to the structures of the National Health Service and its operators. Two last considerations. The world of research uses very appropriate terminology for the brain. The English expression is: "use it or lose it" (or use it or lose it), which could actually be extended to many other cases, but in particular we are talking about Alzheimer's. Therefore, I believe that the continuous stimulus is one of the most important methods of care and support that there are today, even more important than a rather backward pharmacology. Finally, the last consideration I want to borrow from a very beautiful book that wrote Giulio Scarpati, a theater man that we had the pleasure of having in this Chamber on the World Theater Day, on which there is a long letter to his mother, suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Scarpati, in his considerations, on the other hand, says something very important, that we must not forget. It is true that these people at some point no longer recognize them; but we recognize them and through distant memories that with an incredible effort to make the remote part of their memory work, these people bring out also us to evoke a distant past that we had now put in a corner. I believe that this is the link between the scientific, medical and emotional aspects, which we absolutely must spread among the population. We must be ashamed; we must not be afraid to talk about it. This is a matter that should enter fully into the public debate. It is a sensitive subject, but only because it goes through people's lives, not because of the social embarrassment it can bring. Therefore, any economic, design, support, solidarity and active intervention effort may help us to overcome the fear of the other, in which we see the greatest miseries we fear. Finally, I believe that one should say that one loves these people with Alzheimer's, because through them we can also fully understand suffering, and understanding suffering is the first step in being able to cure it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u16	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u17	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr De Biasi for the presentation of a motion which concerns a central issue, an extremely sensitive disease which has its own evolution, its own course, from the beginning to the end. Unfortunately it is being observed that it also affects many women who have also been active in their working lives. Sometimes it is difficult to distinguish from the diagnostic point of view between dementia and Alzheimer's to get free treatment. We have signed this motion with conviction and in my speech I would like to focus in particular on the difficulty of approaching this disease. It is almost always borne by the family, who often, due to lack of knowledge or above all - and this is the most serious - because of lack of means, does not find necessary support at the level of the national health system in public structures (not to mention the private ones). I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, especially in the preterm phase of the disease, these people need assistance not so much psychiatric - on the point you get confused - but constant, twenty-four hours a day because; as you know better than I, there are people who disappear: they are at home, they open the door and they leave. Very often, in fact, the elderly who disappear, and sometimes are no longer found, with the torment of family members, are sick of Alzheimer's who do not remember the address and wander around the cities. Sometimes, with a little luck, they are found, sometimes unfortunately they are not. There is, therefore, also this social alarm. The facilities can be valid, but almost never provide 24-hour assistance; then you have to find additional staff to assist the person. It can happen to find valid nursing staff, but also people who unfortunately exploit situations, such as when they come home and take an hour and a half for an IV, which normally takes forty minutes, to request a greater compensation. Clearly the patient at the mercy of these situations cannot say much. Then I remove the consequences of phlebitis and anything that can happen with a needle in a vein. It is very important to deal with this disease, which unfortunately affects even the youngest, with serious damage to work and especially to the family. It is important, therefore, to prepare an adequate preventive work and to activate services capable of providing assistance to families that sometimes fail to understand the signs of the disease and thus to arrive at a timely diagnosis. In addition, support for the family is important especially in the terminal phase, the violent one, which, as is known, is almost always up and difficult to control: it is difficult to find caregivers who can stay close to the patient and who are able to control such a pathology. I would therefore like to thank the members of the Senate Health Commission for having, with the motion before us, given their attention to this issue. I hope that the government will commit itself to these social and complex issues which unfortunately affect many families. We know that there are some drugs that can act in advance on the disease to delay its course, but there is still no cure. This is why it is also necessary to promote research. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups and Senator Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u18	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to my colleagues from the 12th It is not just a matter of treating a patient but of giving support to those who are called to care for the patient and who see their lives turned upside down, whether it be a parent, a son-in-law or a father-in-law. Mine is a direct experience, having had to attend, unfortunately, two elderly people, husband and wife, affected by Alzheimer's disease, and I tell you that we have not seen much in terms of care: in that exhausting care work we had to compensate for the shortcomings of the public service, first of all in the search for staff able to assist patients of this type, who require 24-hour care for 365 days a year. For this reason, the addition of family members, children, relatives, whose ordered living is overwhelmed by this disease, which is a real social disease, for the relapses and for the impacts that it has on a large number of people in Italy. I do not want to criticise the document presented, which is perfect for how much a motion can be. In this debate, however, it is good to specify certain aspects so that it is not included in the list of good intentions which, as you know, pave the way to hell. In Italy there is a lack of information. The Ministry, Agenas, the Higher Institute of Health, with their departments and joints, engage hundreds and hundreds of people, but our country is characterized by an essential feature: we never have data on performance - in this case it is about providing more services of different types - and less we have epidemiological statistics. From this lack of information comes another serious insufficiency: so far we have not been able to calculate the cost per patient. The motion therefore refers to the only reliable data, the European ones, which indicate an expenditure of EUR 21,000 per year, which I believe is strongly underestimated. The first thing that should be done is then to stimulate the Minister, the Ministry and all agencies dealing with health statistics and epidemiology, not only to find data, on population samples, relating to the exact incidence of the disease, but also to make a mezzanine examination of what the sick person or relatives of the sick person want when it is necessary to provide a cure. I am talking about my personal experience: if we had not been a wealthy family and had not been able to compete with our resources, we would not have been able to assist two people affected by Alzheimer's: one of us, luckily, is still alive while the other left us after fifteen years of illness. We had to wander among caregivers, outsiders, without having a point of reference or an office in charge. The only assistance we had, in addition to palliative drugs, was the fact that once a month we were deposited at home a pile of diapers; after that, we did not see anyone anymore. If we cannot do much, in the blackberries of what the motion wishes, that is, this chain of interaction between basic doctor and socio-sanitary district to intervene specialists and nurses, why not imagine using a part of the non-health but welfare fund, which is very often wasted in some regions to cure the elbow of the tennis player or to take certain subjects with disabilities and put them on a bus and carry them back and forth to pretend to do something, ending with doing - this is the sad truth - the caretakers of these boys? Why can the State fail to finance it in the form of tax and tax relief or mere economic relief? Better still, why doesn't the State take care of the problem considering the many unemployed, the many young people hunting for a job, the many nurses who can't be hired because of this damn shifter block that has been afflicting Italian health for ten years, but especially those Regions submitted to the debt recovery plan? In short, why not make multi-annual performance contracts to these persons qualified to play the role of caregivers, who do not necessarily have to be people who live in hiding - as is almost always the case - and who are found in the form of a caporalate on Sunday at the points where they meet and then meet the families who need a carer? Then we come to meet the families: the first thing a Alzheimer's patient needs is the one who pulls him out of bed, puts him in an armchair, cleans him up, looks after him; after that come the drugs, the specialist visits, the health part, which is irrelevant because we do not know the aetiology: we do not have a drug that can achieve sensitive improvements compared to this pathology, if not a slowdown that many times lengthens the hardships, the precariousness. I've seen dozens of people die of decubit plagues in bed because they had no relatives, and if they had them, they didn't have the economic power to make 1,500-2000 euros a month available to organize a turnover of people who assist these patients. You see, colleagues, we are known in the world for our imagination, for our ability to solve problems, even with strokes of genius and imagination; Mr Undersecretary, let us then make sure that we help the families, who are asking precisely this: let us ensure that the abandoned hospitals - assuming that we are able to release them effectively and not only on the massive plans presented at the tables - can be given priority to taking care of this type of sick people. We must, therefore, strengthen hospices and health homes for the elderly and, where this is not possible, we must provide financial aid to families for the care of these sick people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please finish your speech. D'ANNA (GAL). In Campania - I would like to stress this in conclusion - there are about 7,000 fewer nurses in the hospital facilities. Therefore, we must first unlock the competitions (the famous 15 percent of the turnover of the so-called Balduzzi decree) and ensure that the staff hired - precisely - with the release of the turnover can be dedicated to the sick of these pathologies: it would be the first good and concrete thing that we would be able to do. [[Applause from Senator Langella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanièce. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dementia is without a doubt one of the diseases that is worrying and engaging our society more, both from a medical and socio-assisted point of view. The cognitive deterioration caused by atherosclerotic disease or Alzheimer's disease slowly leads to an inexorable impairment of all the noble functions of the human mind, to reduce the person to a real plant. It is easy to imagine the deep pain of family members and the important social and welfare burden, which involves an imposing economic commitment if we want to guarantee quality levels appropriate to care. The motion under consideration - which focuses its attention on Alzheimer's disease, but indirectly involves the wider problem of all dementias - engages the Government on points that can be shared, from prevention to research, from taking care of hospitals on the ground to the problem of therapies. I would like briefly to address two aspects which I consider to be at present a priority in relation to this serious disease. The first is research and the second is taking charge on the territory. With regard to the first point, research, I believe that, precisely because of the lack of knowledge on the etiopathogenesis of this disease, the Government should support researchers, because this commitment would be a very important step. In fact, as you know, not knowing fully the causes of this disease, in the current state the prevention and the medical therapies unfortunately cannot affect in an effective way, as it happens, in some ways, with the prevention of the dementias on atherosclerotic basis. The second point is taking care of patients on their territory. It is essential to create a network of structures, Alzheimer's nuclei (which are well represented in some regions), to take care of the most acute cases, such as when there is wandering or when there are important psychomotor agitations, but for not too long periods of time. In fact, once the disease has been stabilised, the heavier cases must be welcomed into structures for long-term patients. In addition, specific training must be provided for personal assistants or so-called caregivers. All this in order to offer families an alternative to housekeeping, if they could not manage the most difficult cases, or to be able to take advantage of highly qualified staff, if there was the possibility to accommodate the patient in the family. I believe that a particular effort must be invested and concentrated on families: the wives, children, husbands of such patients are subjected, more than in other diseases, to emotional and psychic stress that lasts years. Therefore, interventions are desirable, special projects in support of families such as relief projects, first aid projects, but also the promotion of moments of aggregation and meeting promoted by the praiseworthy Alzheimer's associations, now spread throughout the territory, which are a particularly happy moment of volunteering practiced in our country. These associations, besides having the task of representing together with the institutions a meeting point for families, also represent a form of solicitation for the institutions. In conclusion, in stressing how important all the arguments contained in this motion are, I would like to point out that there are, however, priorities that we believe should be pursued. We therefore hope that the Government will commit itself to these two points. In thanking President De Biasi for promoting this motion that we have gladly shared and signed, the Group For the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE underlines its support for this important motion. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u22	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of environmental pollution on human health are well known to all. The environment interacts closely with our organism. But the environment in which we live is a complex system, a system that is becoming increasingly dangerous for the presence of pollutants, toxic substances, carcinogenic and mutagenic that, in addition to penetrating our body directly via respiratory or skin, penetrate through the ingestion of food, the milk of fruit meat and often accumulate in our tissues. The environment in which we live is now mortified by a series of events, many of which are manslaughter, others unfortunately arson that often add to many events. This results in a deadly mix of substances. Often we know little even the only effect of one of them, let alone the whole. I want to refer in particular to heavy metals, dioxins and similar dioxins that act as endocrine disruptors or disruptors that, even more subtlely, act on DNA by altering, according to some studies of epigenetics, not the sequence but the activity of the same. All this becomes dramatic, if it were true what I heard, namely that there would be the presence of these substances in the amniotic fluid of the fetus and, even, around the egg cell. In practice, we may be changing future generations. Studies are multiplying all over the world. We should also start to monitor what effects all these substances have on our organism and to deepen, especially in risky areas, if there are correlations between them and diseases such as dementia and autism, since they are less monitored than possible relationships with the environment. I have read in some studies of the dangerousness of aluminium and other so-called heavy metals on the nervous system. In particular, I have read that they could represent a cause or a cause in the onset of dementias, on the rise in all countries of the world, degenerative diseases of the nervous system and even Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. I have read of so much damage that has been caused over the years by the use of substances such as pesticides, phthalates and tricyclic hydrocarbons. My belief is that the environment can no longer be separated from the disease and that it is absolutely necessary to have a watchful eye towards prevention and the famous criterion of prudence, with particular attention to the serious and rational study of diseases in relation to the exposure of the substances that I mentioned earlier. Speaking in particular of the land from which I come, the so-called Land of fires, in Campania what better opportunity - it is said - than the complex and heterogeneous environmental disaster present to attempt here a toxicological analysis on man and aimed at certain substances? I am referring to substances in the environment, in the soil, in foods and even - as has been shown for dioxins - in breast milk. One could - as we have already tried independently - monitor and study the presence of these substances in the hair and blood, also for scientific and prophylactic purposes, to look at any pathologies that may occur in people after a few decades. What better opportunity than the recent state appropriations, the famous EUR 50 million, to monitor also from a toxicological point of view the population of the Land of fires and not only? I say "not only" because the Land of Fires is not the only one to have suffered insults: even in other areas it has buried everything and unfortunately they are not included in the decree. There's enough evidence in literature to throw this rock of mine into the pond. I am not a doctor, but I have documented enough about it: there are really too many coincidences regarding the increase of some diseases or the concentration of some of them in certain areas of our country suffering from particular criticalities. I would like to conclude by saying that we are often ready to look at the environment in relation to cancer which is perhaps the disease that scares us the most; on the contrary, we must bear in mind that cancer is probably only one of the diseases that the environment is in some way favouring or causing, while there are others such as cardiovascular, degenerative and endocrine nerves, which together create many damages, of which we often know nothing or almost nothing. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u25	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank President De Biasi for proposing a very important issue to our attention, as well as all the colleagues who are members of the Health and Health Commission. Turning to the Undersecretary, I would stress that we do not want today's exercise to remain a rhetorical exercise, running the risk that the motions will become just a moment of intercourse to stop. Our Commission, because of the particularity of the issues it evaluates, has an important characteristic: as we have never done in the past, neither today nor tomorrow we will ever get rid of the situations we are discussing with numbers, because we are talking about people and families; we are talking about sensibilities that inevitably impact on the social structure. The numbers were quoted earlier by President De Biasi: they are important and represent the point from which inevitably to start making a structural reasoning. Dear Undersecretary, the motion, as presented, has the ability to create a complete and comprehensive path. In particular, two are the essential parts of its device (the descriptive part has already been well represented): I consider points 3 and 6 central), because they define two paths not simply technical but of structuring a system. We need an organized system for both research and epidemiological monitoring. However, I will be brief, partly because my colleagues in the Commission are really prepared, and perhaps I am to a lesser extent. Undersecretary, take the four words I am about to make as a personal recommendation. There are two essential points. The first concerns the part of the monitoring, which is very simple: if you do not know where the problems are, you do not organize an effective and efficient network. The other is the organizational structure, which should identify the tools (such as the revision of the LEAs) and also all that passage, linked to therapeutic forms, of support for the family. I think that important words have been said today. Alzheimer's is a type of disease that normally sees the isolation and parking - I use this bad word - of the sick person in the corner of the house, becoming these, a problem. It cannot, however, and must not be a problem, because the sick person, as President De Biasi has already said, is a person who perhaps does not always recognize us, but whom we know. Probably this sick person is a relative of ours, he is the father, the mother, the uncle: he is one of those who have allowed us to be alive and present today. The Ministry, after this motion, will have to undertake as soon as possible to operate two steps: the first is a passage of ethical verification regarding the consideration of the type of disease; the second is to give an immediate response. I declare with absolute serenity that we have joined this motion and have signed it: we really hope, President De Biasi, that it will not remain a dead letter. Today, a House of Parliament expresses itself unitedly on a serious problem: we hope that the Government will consider us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u26	We greet a representation of towns and citizens of the City of Capannori, in the province of Lucca. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u28	Madam President, every ten minutes an Italian loses his memory. Every ten minutes an Italian remains free of nerve cells in brain areas vital to cognitive functions. Every ten minutes an Italian erases his own history, his own past and the immediate present, obscuring his own identity. Every ten minutes an Italian no longer recognizes the members of his family, he no longer remembers the names of his children and grandchildren. These are the data that emerge from the most accredited research on Alzheimer's. According to the Ministry of Health, the causes of Alzheimer's are still unknown, but many factors increase the risk of developing this disease. The most important reasons connected with its rise are represented - and I quote only a few - by the advanced age, by family history, by head traumas and by the way of life. To date, there is no cure for Alzheimer's: the treatments available allow to relieve the symptoms and, only on some occasions, to slow the progression of the disease. The patient, as the disease progresses, shows an inability to deal with and solve the simplest problems, he struggles to express himself with his loved ones, he is unable to develop interpersonal relationships. There are progressively more and more extensive areas of the brain, especially those destined for remembrance, and together with them the relationships with the neighbor and with the outside are extinguished and the reactivity to the stimuli weakens. The Alzheimer's patient is destined to remain alone, victim of alienation from circumstances, and becomes a stranger to his own family. In Italy, many, many of the elderly are suffering from dementia and Alzheimer's. Here, let's stop on this point. The elderly, in fact, are all too often abandoned by families just when they worsen their health and are no longer self-sufficient. They are left to a destiny of marginalization and are violated their human right to live dignifiedly the last years of their journey, surrounded by those who should love them. Hard studies show that having a dynamic approach to everyday life, cultivating social relationships and, in general, being surrounded by those who love us, means keeping themselves active mentally. It is one of the ways to delay the onset of dementia. The caring attention of the family is a real protective shield for the manifestation of neurodegenerative pathologies. In this way, the efficiency of the neuronal circuits and the so-called brain reserve are naturally amplified, i.e. the brain's ability to activate the alternative neuronal circuits. This is why we must not leave the elderly alone; elderly people who are all too often, lightly, parked in hospitals and nursing homes. It is here that the support of the family is an indispensable act of love, an exchange between generations, a gesture of gratitude between young people and those who preserve the heritage of experience and wisdom. According to ISTAT, the ageing population, particularly the elderly population, will result in a further increase in the number of people with dementia. In thirty years - let us say - there will be more than three million people in need of care and uninterrupted care in Italy alone because of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Yet, to date, there are no diagnostic tests, really effective drugs and a training tailored to family and caregivers, i.e. those who are most in contact with the sick. For this reason, here and now, it is necessary to include Alzheimer's among the priorities of national public health, through valid healing actions of the pathology. For a country like ours, in a condition of constant prolongation of life expectancy, the password should be "prevention". Another key priority is to facilitate access to laboratory tests and instrumental examinations by all social groups, especially the less well-off. This neurodegenerative disease must be the subject of thorough research which must be adequately funded, without savings. There should be constant monitoring of epidemiological spread and widespread awareness-raising actions. We need home care, a guarantee of economic support from the State and the involvement of competent figures, continuously updated. The right to health should always be guaranteed. In conclusion, Alzheimer's is a disease that needs not only a cross-cutting consideration, but also and above all a real, reliable and lasting institutional commitment. But that is not enough. In order to ensure adequate protection for the sick, there must be three fundamental elements: solidarity, support, substance; solidarity from the community, support from the family, substance from the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u29	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u30	Madam President, I too would particularly like to thank the President of the 12th Commission. There are two ways to politically address the issues. Often and willingly governments manage the emergency, and the emergency of these times is the everyday life. But on the issue of Alzheimer's, I believe that we cannot tackle the problem only from an emergency perspective, because, given the data that have been mentioned (one million people in Italy suffering from Alzheimer's disease; 150,000 new cases every year; a report by 144 elderly people per 100 young people, which will be 280 elderly people per 100 young people in forty years' time), no one can say that we cannot and must not make plans for this. In my opinion, it would be irresponsible not to deal with it in a concrete and meaningful way. 11:27 a.m. (Following Zuffada). One of the key topics is research. It is clear that scientific research can make a significant contribution, not only for the detection of the disease, therefore through early diagnosis, but also possibly for a cure hypothesis. We do not limit providence, but so far scientific research has shown that today it is difficult, if not impossible, to heal Alzheimer's. Therefore, it is necessary to equip themselves in a meaningful and concrete way in order to be able to meet the needs of families (as well as the sick) when they have a family affected by Alzheimer's. We must also act on the issue of information, which I believe is fundamental, in terms of lifestyles. In fact, as stated at a conference held at the Higher Institute of Health last November, numerous evidence available in terms of primary and secondary prevention identify seven potentially modifiable risk factors associated with the onset of Alzheimer's disease: diabetes; hypertension in adulthood; obesity in adulthood; smoking; depression and poor physical activity. Therefore, prophylaxis should be done from a health point of view, acting on these predisposing factors. In addition to the diagnosis there is the problem of how to treat and secure Alzheimer's patients and also families. It is a question of putting in place the so-called integrated management, which is fundamental. In the first place, it is necessary to prepare the staff called upon to care for these people, giving concrete help to families. I live in Lombardy where lately I notice a significant difference from the recent past. In the past, a family member approached the so-called RSA (health care) because the family was completely occupied, since the son, daughter or wife worked and therefore, having no time needed, could no longer care for the family members. Today, on the contrary, in the RSA we notice that the waiting lists have been considerably reduced and the presence of sick people in these structures is basically linked to their non self-sufficiency, otherwise we try to keep them in the homes. As far as Alzheimer's disease is concerned, however - as Mr D'Anna said - this is not possible, because there is a need for continuous and professionally adequate care to ensure that these people are better assisted. Therefore, it is necessary to have the famous Alzheimer's nuclei, in order to have access to which, on the contrary, due to the increase in the elderly population and the number of Alzheimer's patients, the waiting lists are long. This raises the question of the conversion of health structures because of a change in the composition of the population. Therefore, planning and intervention are needed, and this request must be addressed in particular to the Government, because Alzheimer's is not an emergency of the near future, since, in fact, it is already a reality, as the numbers show. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u31	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, I would like to join my voice with that of other colleagues who have already spoken and to bring to this House the voice of families and those suffering from dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Man has always wondered about the meaning of life, and through poetry, literature and philosophy he has dealt with it. Seneca wrote that life is divided into three phases: what it was, what it is, what it will be. Of these phases, the one we live is short, the one we will live is doubtful, the one we lived is sure. And it is precisely the security of the past, that is, that heritage of memories, experiences, relationships, that these pathologies attack, seriously undermining memory and depriving the person affected of the supports, of those connections necessary to live the present and imagine the future. They are foundations that fail to generate that discomfort, that fear and even that terror that shines through the dumb and dumb gaze of the dementia patient and Alzheimer's disease. It does not exist in nature - we know - an easy disease, and Alzheimer's is certainly a complex pathology. It is not a diagnosis that indicates an immediate risk to life: however, it is an irreversible diagnosis, a condemnation, to date, not to heal. It is a long, very long, highly disabling disease, although the first symptoms may appear even mild, and in many cases, to family members, even funny. To stumble in the memory of the name of the grandchildren, the name of the daily newspaper that has been read from a lifetime or the address of the home are symptoms that the sick tends too often, out of shame, to camouflage and that it is difficult to read in the necessary immediacy. We forget the names, the meaning of the actions, what happened yesterday and even an hour ago; then come the dangerous behaviors with the water or gas taps. Then there are the escapes, in an attempt to go to a house, the one that appears in the most distant memory and that is never that of the life lived with the companion or the companion or with the children, that is, those people with whom the daily life has been shared and who today appear to be strangers. It becomes difficult, therefore, to find words, to put them in line to formulate a thought, to imagine a speech, to express a feeling. Just as it happens for the sick, the dementias and Alzheimer's disease completely question the family, its relationships and its organization. The times of life and work - it has already been said - must be reviewed for the necessity of a constant and continuous presence, 24 hours a day, every day. Just as the sick person is isolated from the family and society, the family also tends to suffer isolation, precisely because of the complexity of this pathology, starting - President De Biasi, Mr Undersecretary - from the terrible name of dementia, so weighed down by a negative social judgment, as well as of course by the difficulty of interaction of the sick person with the family and the family with the sick and with the others. Families experience very high psychological and physical stress. No disease is a private fact: this, for sure, is a pathology that calls for public attention. As has also been mentioned in the illustration of the motion for a resolution of this disease, the World Health Organization is concerned with the high number of people affected and the projected increase in the coming years, both in developed and developing countries. We also need to talk about it, and it is important to talk about it today: the very fact of doing so means that we still need a lot of work. The path narrated by the difficult coexistence of the disease accompanies the requests well expressed in the motion, that is, the early diagnosis, the promotion of scientific research - to get to drugs and therapies that go beyond the current ones, which are solitudes and delays of the pathology path - the updating of the basic doctors and operators, as well as health education campaigns. It is important to know that a technical working table has been set up in this respect. Finally, there are points highlighted in the motion that I want to stress because they express necessity, well resumed, that go beyond the simple assistance, necessary and indispensable, on which we must have resources, money and skills, and try to remedy the loneliness of the sick and families, also aiming at the overall care. A general project to treat dementia is therefore indispensable, starting from clinical aspects, such as diagnosis and treatment of pharmacological and non-pharmacological, developing in parallel specific services dedicated to the different stages of the disease, to family problems and to the places of treatment. For the patient and for families it is important to create a system that takes into account the global, environmental and social situation of the individual, ensuring a global responsibility. The availability of socio-sanitary structures dedicated to the various phases of the disease, to the temporary reception, as well as to relief centres, indispensable for such a long and impacting pathology and psychological stress for the family. It has already been mentioned, but I would like to stress it once again, that it is important to provide for stable epidemiological monitoring, so that any necessary initiative can be taken to create an integrated network of services: it is an indispensable tool for planning the right policies. I conclude by thanking President De Biasi for the initiative he has taken: we need to talk about this disease, to break down walls and prejudices, because the well-being of the sick and their families passes also and above all from here. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u33	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u34	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u35	Mr President, Senators, the motion - and I say this with regard to both the text and the illustration of President De Biasi - proposes commitments which can be accepted by the Government and calls on the Government in particular, but also for Parliament and, I hope, for the echo that this debate will have, all the actors involved in the difficult and complex organisation of the network of social and health services in favour of the many people affected by this disease and the enormous number of people involved in their assistance. I therefore hope that the echo of this debate will stimulate and strengthen the work that so many institutional actors, despite the complexity of the times and within the limits of the financial resources (which are always on the agenda of these matters), will be able to put in place further on our national territory. In order to give an opinion not only ritual I would like to point out some points of the motion and of the debate that seem particularly qualifying, and that we share, on which I quickly point out the timely opinion of the Government. First of all, the network of social and health services is the basis of work, given the many difficulties and the many differences that exist, in the sense of not being appropriate possibilities both of care and care for patients and of accompaniment for families in this difficult condition. In recent years there has been a push in this direction: for example, as a Ministry we census that the number of Alzheimer's assessment units has grown a lot, and those currently existing in our country are about 500, compared to the 50 or 60 that were up to a few years ago. We still have to work on this, but it seems to me to be a good thing. The same applies to the updating of essential levels of assistance. The draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the updating of the essential levels of assistance which, as you know, is being assessed, in the sense in question and is engaging in difficult and complex work the Conference of the Regions and the Government, provides an update also for this type of assistance, putting at the expense of the Health Service not only the residential treatments, but also the semi-residential ones, according to the perspective indicated in many of the interventions carried out. Similarly for training: although the Government has organised 179 training events, it will take care to request the National Commission for Continuing Training in Medicine to pay particular attention to the training of practitioners in this specific field. Even on research, of course, you can do much more. The basic data convince us that we are moving in a sufficient direction and, with the elements that I will show you, we will take care to strengthen in the coming years both current research, as defined in the national programmes, and final research. As you know, current research is mainly the subject of the activities of the institutions of hospitalization and care of a scientific character, while the targeted research is financed in our country through calls, which obviously demand financial resources, transparent and effective evaluation systems, but also the protagonism of the subjects indicated to be able to participate and present projects, subjects that are our universities, the National Research Council and other research bodies, both public and private, and, as planned specifically, enterprises, public and private. Despite these limitations, we measure that, on targeted research, 25% of the last call for projects that have been funded is related to programmes that relate to neurodegenerative diseases, and we calculate that at least 35% of current research projects, which are curated by the institutes of hospitalization and treatment of a scientific nature, are basically in this field. Of course I realize that this motion produces a push and establishes further commitments, which we will try to implement also with the future work that we will be given to achieve. For these reasons, the Government shares the motion and gives a favourable opinion on the commitments indicated in it. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u39	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before us presents its own biomedical and ethical value, and yet it is not enough. The relevance is dictated by its immediate sociopolitical recognition. In the face of an increasingly serious and widespread clinical situation, the institutions can and must offer and guarantee personalized welfare levels, and the motion (thanks to President De Biasi for presenting it) guarantees a response that we can define fulfilled. On the etiopatogenesis, I do not dwell, because of the complexity of biomedical analysis, of the vast bibliography and of the current research. On the other hand, it is much more important for me to stress the bioethical and biopolitical aspect underlying this motion. There are several keywords, but among them, above others, I would like to mention in particular assistance and responsibility. As the Latins have taught us, assistance comes from settling, which means not being ahead or behind, but next door, and I believe that in addition to representing medical, nursing or socio-sanitary activity it has its own socio-political value, because in being side by side, sharing and accompanying one declines the vocabulary of community democracy. The language and relationality of the person with Alzheimer's have its own characteristics. The subject seems to be isolated, far away and averted from the grammar of our everyday life, our so-called colloquial majority. Yet the person with Alzheimer's talks, transmits us feeling and feeling far away and, perhaps, dormant, gradually forgotten, yet present in interpersonal and intergenerational conversation. It is that personal history that challenges us and questions us, to which we must assure that family and social acceptance that is the foundation of the dignity of life, of the dignity of the life of every person. Evidently I speak of intrinsic dignity, not of the one attributed, which very often finds the expression quality of life as synonymous. In fact, by using quality of life we would immediately be inclined to give a negative meaning to the person with Alzheimer's disease. Instead, the quality of life in this case must be synonymous with intrinsic dignity. It is precisely in the name of that intrinsic dignity, of its objective and ontological personal and collective recognition that outlines and configures the figure of our democracy, of a biopolitical dimension that does not serve to control and dominate bios, but that, through the dimension of bios, finds the recognition of personal identity in its other dimensions, spiritual and psychic. And, therefore, dignity belongs to everyone and, even more so, to the weak and the defenceless: it is precisely in the name of these that the foundation of the motion is recognized that is being submitted to our attention today. The few arguments I have put before this House, which could have been richer, call for responsibility. Calling me once again to Latin, this word comes from responding and means giving a complete answer even to those who are unable to express a question in a complete way: ours must, instead, be a complete answer. That is why we shall vote in favour. Thank you again to President De Biasi and I also thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PI, PD and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u42	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group will vote with conviction in favour of the motion on the treatment of Alzheimer's patients, because this seems complete and far-sighted. We believe that the emphasis on early diagnosis, which is proving to be effective in slowing down the course of the disease, favours neurophysiological processes and cerebral plasticity that remain possible even at an advanced age, contrary to what was thought only a few years ago. It is important for early diagnosis to enter fully into the new ministerial guidelines, which appear increasingly urgent. Alzheimer's, even if it is not curable for now, is not an inevitable destiny, but a pathology that can be fought. Slowing down the course is also possible to achieve considerable savings in time, money and suffering, alleviating the need for care on the part of family and structures. We also believe that it is very important to promote research on these issues: epidemiological, basic and clinical research. Research allows advanced therapies to be put in place, but it needs specialized and networked centres, where doctors and researchers are not overworked and can approach the care activity to that of research. Already today in Italy there are research centers on the demences of world excellence: they must be supported and multiplied, pushing them towards the best international standards. Finally, the fight against dementia must be seen in an integrated way. For example, a recent study shows that senile deafness is closely related to brain loss due to the dramatic decrease in external stimuli on the brain. Proper treatment of senile deafness can therefore contribute to the fight against brain decay. In conclusion, we hope that this motion will stimulate the government for a change of pace on brain treatment and decay. Once again it is not so much and only a problem of money, but of health culture and health organization. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u45	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I repeat my vote in favour of the motion, stressing my position. I believe, in fact, that rather than moving at scientific level on prevention and early diagnosis, we should ensure that this motion, albeit with its limitations, is practical. We should ensure that families who assist Alzheimer's patients can receive economic incentives or, better, have the availability of ad hoc personnel, properly trained through training courses, for the help and help they need for these patients who, besides living a tragedy in the first person, represent a devastating element for the lives of families, relatives and those who care for them. I would like to remind you that in a recent report by the Catholic University the burden on families for medical care has more than doubled over the last ten years, from 11 to 24 euros. Continuing this step, the health system will become an elitist system, because most of the benefits - even in this case provided in the LEA - are due to conditions necessary for non-pharmacological, therapeutic or rehabilitation interventions, but of an exquisitely charitable type, not only for the sick but also for the families - I repeat once again - who carry this type of patients. We do not understand why among the many subsidies granted by the State - just imagine the large number of training courses that the Regions finance at all spy for the socially useful workers or for other categories that use social shock absorbers - it cannot be expected to use these resources to create agencies that provide nursing or welfare staff to the families that are in charge of these patients. The excellent is the enemy of the good. I therefore hope that this motion will not be relied on by the eating criticism of mice, as is the case with many of the documents that we approve of in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u48	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto). Mr President, from the study of Alzheimer's disease international (as announced this morning), published in the Lancet, there are 24.3 million people affected by this disease, with 4.6 million new cases per year, which will double in the next 20 years to 81 million in 2040. The countries most affected are China and those of Europe, where there is an exponential growth of new cases. I have signed the motion in the vote because I believe that there is a clear need on the part of the sick's family to have a greater availability of specific medical centres and dedicated day centres, as well as the possibility of both external and home care. Let us bear in mind that the absolute number of elderly tends to grow and, consequently, also the number of people suffering from dementia, which entails social costs that will become unsustainable for our welfare system. It will therefore not be enough to promote only health care and training projects: first of all we will also have to do a primary prevention and investigate more and more in the relationship between environment and health, in particular between environmental pollutants and neurodegenerative diseases. Recent advances in molecular biology and bioinformatics have shown that not only nucleic acids but also proteins and, in a sense, all organic molecules are carriers of information that are transposed by cell and nuclear receptors and translated into signals, with activation or blocking of cell and intercellular biochemical waterfalls. We can also remember, in this regard, how it has been experimentally demonstrated, not only on murine guinea pigs but also on primates, such as the exposure in utero to ultrafine particulates and heavy metals opens the way to various neurodegenerative diseases and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease, used as a sentry pathology due to the worrying epidemic increase of recent decades and the now acclaimed pathogenic mechanism. Both the above experimental studies on guinea pigs and primates, as well as the epidemiological studies of Mexican pediatricians and epidemiologists, have brought important contributions to our knowledge of the complex pathogenetic mechanisms that are at the origin of this and other neurodegenerative diseases (let's not forget Parkinson's disease or amiotrophic lateral sclerosis), in which chronic oxidative stress, with all probability linked to prolonged exposure to environmental pollutants (again ultrafine particulate matter and heavy metals) plays a prominent role. Significant contributions in this field have also come from investigations into toxicity related to inhalation of ultrafine particulate matter and nanoparticles that, through the olfactory nerve, arrive at the brain; to the deposition of heavy metals in the telencephalic areas most involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's (especially frontal lobe and hippocampus); to the subsequent activation, by heavy metal deposits, of pro-phlogistic mechanisms related to the release of oxygen radicals and therefore to the deposit of beta-amyloid, which is responsible for the formation of Alzheimer's disease plaques. It is increasingly evident that all this requires the transition to a dynamic and reactive genome model, capable of self-engineering on the basis of information and at the same time disinformation coming from the external and internal environment (especially heavy metals, endocrine disruptors, electromagnetic fields): from a whole flow of information, which, as said, not in a linear and unidirectional way from DNA to RNA to proteins, but rather in a circular way from the environment, to epigenome, to DNA, proteins and therefore again to epigenome and genome. So when we talk about investing in research and innovation, we also think about epigenetics and how important this is in the implementation of primary prevention. Enhancing prevention really means enabling healthcare professionals to arrive at an early diagnosis, through the continuous updating in particular of general medical doctors who more than others can face suspicious cases and act promptly, directing the patient towards the most appropriate treatments, including specific training obligations. A multi-disciplinary and multi-professional approach is also needed involving specialists, general medical doctors, health care professionals, but also family members, who are often faced with a structural shortage in care services, which varies according to the regions of origin, the care and daily management of the patient. For this reason, it is essential that specific information campaigns be carried out to raise public awareness. While it is true that care for people with Alzheimer's disease is included in the essential levels of care (so-called LEA) and that, with regard to health protection, it is a disease included in the list of chronic and invalidating diseases that give entitlement to the ticket exemption for related health care, it is useless to deny that growth in percentage terms with which the phenomenon is expected to expand makes necessary a model of taking care of the patient that goes beyond sectoral interventions. A model that, on the contrary, provides for wider interventions in order to support not only the Alzheimer's subject, but also the family members and healthcare professionals involved in all its forms. Therefore, starting from the environmental and social situation of the individual patient it is essential that this be followed in a coordinated context, where the reception in dedicated social health facilities is accompanied by multi-professional teams with specific but harmonised competences and where the management of the decompensation phases is accompanied by real support, in terms of skills and services, to the primary care providers. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this motion by my Group. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, M5S and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u49	. I declare closed the vote for the election of a Senator Secretary. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes in the adjacent Pannini Room. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Loola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Amati, Angioni, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello Barani, Barozzi, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bianco, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bilinella, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiano, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardinals, Caridi, Carraro, Casini, Casson, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Continenti, Chi, Chiampolilo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Comaroli, Comagna, Compagnone, Conte, Conte, Crimi, Crimi, Cirinna, Ciofi, Cioffi
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u52	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, I want to begin my explanation of vote by stressing how the 12th Permanent Commission of the Senate works: it chooses a subject, it deepens it and, with different sensitivity, it finds a square on the requests to be submitted to the Ministry, with concrete and feasible proposals, with suggestions to tackle a serious problem, such as the one under consideration, and then it brings it to the attention of Parliament. I believe that this methodology - which Senator De Biasi has imposed, as President, on the 12th The Commission - and this must be emphasized because it is proactive and gives rise to a kind of competition between the Commissioners to make our national health service more and more usable. As has already been pointed out, this is a huge global challenge. In fact, while there are 44 million Alzheimer's patients worldwide and by 2050 (i.e. in a few decades) this figure will triple, it is easy to understand that this is a global challenge for all national health services. It is also a challenge for our national service because in Italy there is a million patients, with everything that follows as a relapse, not only on the National Health Service, but also on the impact on families. Before we go into this, I would remind you that the Alzheimer's problem has already been dealt with in this House when we voted on the missing persons measure. In fact, to date, in our morgue there are still more than a thousand bodies not recognized, of which more than 600 are really patients with Alzheimer's: that is, people who have left the house, but have not been able to return. With the old laws, the search for the missing person was very late; therefore, often, these people died and, when found, were not even recognizable by family members. Even today - I repeat - there are about a thousand people who do not have the comfort of a tomb and there are family members who cannot mourn their companion. In Italy this is still a problem and concerns, in 80% of cases, Alzheimer's patients. It is vital for us to be able to do research to understand how to prevent this disease. Today some American research is in very advanced phase and they have identified why Alzheimer's is born, where it is born, how it develops, what happens in the brain and what determines the loss of total autonomy. Well, research must go its own way and this is an extremely interesting path. However, this - and I address the State Secretary for Health - is likely to require economic efforts from health services, including to tackle prevention. In fact, as emerges from the latest results of the research, we will probably be able to diagnose, in 90 percent of cases, the disease three years before its onset; therefore, it may become really interesting to carry out a preventive screening to identify the disease, obviously calibrated on familiarity and on particular situations. It is easy to understand that science will pose a further challenge, which will require ad hoc funding. The fact of being able to discover three years before the possible onset of this disease can help us to use drugs that today can only contain some symptoms, but that, instead, taken in time, could become curative. It is, therefore, an obstacle course, but fortunately we are moving in a global context, precisely because - I repeat - this is a challenge for all health services. Coming to us, we don't know what interacts. Senator Romani has made a wide examination of all environmental factors. I'd like to add another one. We have not yet fully understood the damage suffered by our young people who fill themselves with synthetic drugs; we do not yet have a complete picture of the level of destruction of the brain of these young people who, probably (as some scientific research tells us), will become demented in age not so advanced, but youthful, with additional social costs. You will then understand that when you speak (also in this motion) of prevention you need to do it at 360 degrees also in view of the good maintenance of our brain. The essential levels of care, as well as the exemption from the ticket, are good for the Alzheimer's patient, but when a child, an adult in a mononuclear family, finds himself having four elderly parents with the risk that one or two of them are Alzheimer's sufferers, basic social protection is needed. Unfortunately, in this regard our regions, many regions, are behind and everything falls heavily on the shoulders of the family. Therefore, I would like to say that the New Centro-Rextra Group will vote strongly in favour of this motion, not only because it has signed it, but because we firmly believe that, in the context of the challenge that the Ministry of Health is playing in these weeks on the new three-year level of health, one of the great chapters to be observed (both in terms of resources and training) and the one related to all these neo-degenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's. It was once said that the elders were "little men," and this was part of the old man's oleography. This pathology makes people totally out of reality, dangerous for themselves and represents a major family and social problem. And if we want to consider a civil society, as Mr Romani reminded us, we must take responsibility for it and not leave it to the last; and these people are really the last because they do not even remember who they are anymore. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u55	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens, when the German neurologist (psychiatrist and neuropathologist) Aloysius Alzheimer described the disease that took his name a hundred years ago, he certainly had not thought of starting a story that, long after, would dominate the clinical scenario that today is called the "silent epidemic" of the third millennium. The motion deals with many aspects that I agree with and the commitments that the proposers indicate to the government are concrete and all really important. However, there are two subjects I want to analyse best. This disease affects people of advanced age, even if present forms are present in subjects with certain genetic defects. On these two aspects, namely age and genetic alterations, we certainly cannot intervene. But scientific literature agrees that particular emphasis should be placed on prevention, which makes it possible to limit the number of new cases and to delay their occurrence. As dementia affects a large number of people, defining individual risk factors is an effective global prevention. It is about acting on elements that can be controlled in whole or in part. But there are some conditions, especially those related to lifestyle, to the environment on which it is possible to intervene with significant clinical results. Since they are habits that exert their negative effect slowly over time, interventions are also measurable over the long term and only accurate epidemiological studies allow to highlight risks and benefits. This statement is particularly important, because the citizen expects precise indications that lead to results in the short term. It is clear that investing in primary prevention does not make in electoral terms. The results are perceived in the long run and cannot be spent immediately, while the politician is interested in proposals for immediate implementation. Moreover, prevention is global and does not generate economic interests focused on the few power groups (see the Big Pharma). Research in recent years has shown that the same factors that promote cardiovascular disease also pose a greater risk to Alzheimer's disease: as already mentioned, obesity, high cholesterol and hypertension are risk factors that can be modified today. Recognizing and treating them reduces the risk of developing the disease. Scientific studies published in the most important world magazines show how lifestyles, especially good relational behaviour - are achieved by an increase in the level of education, an improvement in the conditions of manual work and a good promotion of social relations - and proper nutrition can reduce the number of patients, delay their onset and slow the progression of the disease. Preventing Alzheimer's disease is possible by eating foods that contain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, which have the ability to reduce the blood rates of the beta-amyloid protein, such as fish and oily dried fruit (nuts, almonds or nuts). Researchers have found that the more an individual consumes omega-3, the lower the rates of beta-amyloid protein in the blood, and have strengthened the belief that the Mediterranean diet - yes, our Mediterranean diet - is useful to prevent light cognitive disturbances that often pre-empt Alzheimer's. We follow our Mediterranean diet, with our extra virgin olive oil, and not the flagship of Spain; with our fruits, such as Timilia and Senator Cappelli, and not those with registered trademarks of which we pay royalties like Kamut; with our tomatoes, and not those that come from unknown countries that allow the uncontrolled use of pesticides of which we do not even know the existence. I remember that many of those pesticides have now been shown to cause diseases such as Parkinson's disease, diseases that have been declared professional in France. All this underlines that we must pay more attention to our environment: attention than with other motions, such as the one related to the use of CSS in cement factories, we are not here demonstrating. Now the enemies lurking are the epidemics of diabetes and obesity that we are unfortunately witnessing in the West, and not only. These are two potential risk factors for dementia, which have not yet fully invested the elderly population. Unfortunately, it's only a matter of time. Our Mediterranean diet does not enrich - as I have already said - anyone, while it is also a well-established habit of speaking here, aiming at miraculous and expensive medicines. We look for medicines to be beautiful, smart, at the top and to increase our performances, as an advertisement says. I therefore urge the researchers not to spread false hopes, which create painful illusions in those affected by the disease and in their families. True science does not need advertising campaigns, because it promotes itself through the advantages it produces over time. The other aspect that I would like to highlight, in addition to primary prevention, is the psychological support that we must provide to family members. The disease - we have seen it - is progressive, long and really disabling, and not only for the people affected. At this point - if you will allow me - I lower the tone of my voice because, when you enter certain areas of discussion, you really have to be cautious. I'm talking about the end of life. It is necessary to make decisions sometimes suffered that belong to the family, waiting for the biological will to be regulated. In those moments the psychological assistance to the family is fundamental, also because today the vision of medicine is technological and rejects death as an unavoidable element and considers it as an accident, an inability of the treating doctor to be prosecuted then legally. Technological medicine is no longer socially sustainable, nor is it economically sustainable. Having said that, I confirm the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement on this important motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u58	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the widespread and growing spread in the population of Alzheimer's disease, the absence of effective treatment and the enormous effects in terms of the necessary resources (emotional, organizational and economic) that fall on the sick's family make it one of the most serious social impact diseases in the world. More than all degenerative diseases, Alzheimer's also affects family members who have to replace the sick in many activities. In fact, a large proportion of the sick are assisted only by families, bringing all the weight of care and care to bear on them. The most related factor to the incidence of the disease is certainly the age: it is rare under 65 years, while it increases progressively with the increase of age, to reach a huge spread around 85 years, and the epidemiological data in our possession say that in the next twenty years the patients suffering from this disease are destined to double. The course of the disease may be different, in the times and in the synthological mode for each individual patient; the time of permanence in each of these phases is variable from subject to subject and may, in some cases, last even several years. In this regard, I would like to recall a film by director Pupi Avati "A boundless youth" - which did not have the success that he would have deserved for a topic that perhaps not everyone liked to live and deepen on the big screen - which with extreme sensitivity tells an intense and dramatic story. A film full of emotion that highlights the evolution of this disease and the strong impact on the sick's family. In the last legislature, this film was screened in the Zuccari Hall of the Senate for the opportunity that the presidency of the Senate itself gave to the then president of the 12th Commission, Senator Tomassini, to organise an information and awareness-raising event about this disease, which starts almost silently. Also in the last legislature, and precisely on October 6, 2011, the Senate Assembly approved a series of motions, including the first one signed by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri that I shared, as I fully share the motion today at our examination, at the first signature of the President of the 12th Commission, Senator De Biasi, thank you very much. The aim of these motions is to commit the Government to ensuring the necessary welfare homogeneity of people suffering from this terrible disease and to indicate prevention, early diagnosis and information on this disease among health policy priorities. Among the many problems is that of diagnosis: it usually passes over a year to get from the first symptoms to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's. A diagnosis lived like a boulder, which leads family members and patients to hide from others in a rejection of the disease. However, this psychologically understandable attitude prevents the early use of medicines (acetylcholinesterase inhibitors) that produce a symptomatic benefit and, above all, a slowing down of disease progression. The situation in care has improved since the establishment of Alzheimer's assessment units. These centers, present in all large hospitals, allow a free diagnosis and therapy. There are also a number of Alzheimer's centres spread throughout the country and generally financed by municipalities, but it is mainly the patient associations that make substantial contributions with various services such as green numbers, Alzheimer's cafes and many others. The growing incidence of this disease in the population around the world is accompanied by an equivalent growth of its enormous economic and social cost. The annual cost of assisting an elderly person with Alzheimer's (without considering the indirect costs associated with the disease) was about $33,000 in 2009, compared to the $10,000 needed for the care of an elderly person who is not affected. This makes Alzheimer's disease one of the diseases with the largest socio-economic impact, especially in countries where the improvement of quality of life has led to an increase in average life. The most critical factor for the effectiveness of therapies is timing of therapeutic intervention. Among the most current instrumental methods are: positron emission tomography with the use of tracers; high definition magnetic resonance imaging, which allows to quantify with extreme precision some areas of the brain; rachicentesis, a lumbar puncture to take a sample of cephalo-racchidian fluid. This motion aims precisely to promote an epidemiological monitoring action, compatible with the constraints of privacy, which allows to take any necessary initiative to create homogeneity in the integrated network of social and health care services throughout the national territory; to include specific training obligations related to Alzheimer's for health professionals in the framework of the programme of continuous education in medicine; to promote initiatives for the support and development of research, fundamental in the field of neurodegenerative diseases and dementia; to promote specific health education campaigns aimed at the population in order to improve their awareness and the correct ways to relate to the structures of the national health system and operators. The motion we are examining today is an important moment for an organic adjustment of all the legislation that can support patients and their family members in their care, also addressing the complex social repercussions that this disease entails. That is why I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group, hoping that this will be the last time this serious disease is put in the spotlight in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u61	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, thanks to the Health Commission, which has worked seriously and in harmony, and also thanks to the leadership of the Presidency, this motion has finally arrived in the Chamber; it is so important to tackle, in an organic way, the social and health aspects of a terrible and devastating disease such as Alzheimer's, which in Italy records - as Senator De Biasi reminded us on time - thrilling numbers. Worrying data that highlight the need to build a model based on prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the disease, which includes not only care for the sick, but also support for primary care providers, i.e. family members, caregivers, nurses, medical assistants and doctors. We really need a territorial network to support the sick, including all those involved, from the family doctor to specialists, reference centres, home care, day care centres, relief shelters and final admissions. Alzheimer's is the most common and most devastating cause of dementia: it cancels the person, borders him in a world of fear, anguish, hallucinations. The sick person no longer recognizes himself and his family and the latter often fail to support those unpredictable and unmanageable situations that the disease causes. Alzheimer's steals life from the person who is affected and destroys his family, which ends up feeling powerless in relation to the evolution of the pathology. For this reason it is important to vote on the motion under consideration, in which the Government is strongly asked to promote a general plan of care, which follows in parallel the aspects proper clinical and those related to the development of specific services dedicated to the different stages of the disease, to family problems and to the places of care. Scientific research to date has not identified the etiopatogenesis of the disease, although in recent days, visiting the Senate, the Nobel Prize in Medicine, Professor Susumu Tonegawa, has left us well to hope for the progress made. Modern therapies certainly slow down the progression of the disease, but you can't see anything on the horizon that lets you hope for a cure. Hence the invitation to the Government to promote appropriate initiatives for the support and development of scientific research in the field of dementia. We have avoided linear cuts to health in the DEF, but the concern remains that the savings requested by the regions may affect the quality and efficiency of the national health service. I therefore hope that the health pact will seriously address the issues covered by this motion. If this were not the case, the optimistic forecasts contained in it about the ageing of the population would be seriously endangered by what I believe to be a real time bomb, ready to explode if not taken with care and carefully defused. The problem of dementia - as Senator Bianconi reminded us - is global. For this reason, for the first time, the G8 world leaders met in London at a summit to decide how to combat the worldwide epidemic of dementia. The main points of the signed agreement on the measures to be taken were, among others, to identify, by 2025, a cure or treatment that would change the course of the disease, which means: increasing the funds for research and the number of researchers involved; developing an international action plan for research; exchanging information, studies and data; working together to achieve better results; inviting the World Health Organisation and the OECD to declare dementia a threat to public health and supporting countries to affect their health and social systems for people with dementia; inviting everyone to treat people with dementia with dignity and respect and increase their contribution to prevention, care and care. Most governments are unprepared to deal with the dementia epidemic. Up to now only 13 countries have carried out a national plan on dementias and Italy, alas, is not among them. We seek, Mr Undersecretary, at least to remedy as soon as possible, by setting up a care network capable of protecting not only Alzheimer's patients, but also their families and those who assist them, starting from the promotion of greater social sensitivity to the disease, in order to facilitate the diagnostic path and the global responsibility for the patient. For all these reasons, also expressed by colleagues, the Democratic Party will vote with conviction on the motion by which we wanted to give a message of hope to the country and show our commitment to this disease that, according to doctors, is more afraid of cancer. Therefore, Mr. Undersecretary, we will ensure that the commitments required of the Government are fulfilled with the commitment and speed that the country needs. We thank you for your favourable opinion and for the statement that the commitments made in your reply are not ritual, but will have a real and concrete follow-up. Allow me to conclude with a heartfelt appeal by a colleague whose mother, like mine, has unfortunately died because of Alzheimer's disease. Let us all remember that, beyond any research, any medicine, the most effective cure, which costs nothing is alone and only affectivity. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Candiani and Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u64	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u65	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 148, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1417. The rapporteurs, Senators Casson and Dalla Zuanna, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u67	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a brief introductory report on the issues which essentially concern the competence of the Justice Commission. As a preliminary point, I think it is important to remember the framework of this legislation that deals with psychiatric judicial hospitals, because the process for overcoming them began as early as 2008, in particular with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April, which referred to guidelines for interventions in psychiatric judicial hospitals and nursing homes. A subsequent measure then intervened to supplement this decree - which effectively regulated the transfer of all prison health functions from the administration of justice to the National Health Service - with normative and programmatic guidelines that refer to a unified conference and that saw their completion in the law of 17 February 2012, n. 9, laying down provisions for the definitive overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals. I think it is important to remember how this law provision of the beginning of 2012 came about through a tiring and thorough parliamentary work. I remember, in particular, that at the time in the Senate it was necessary to reformulate for four or five times the text of the amendment that wanted to lead to the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals. I would point out, moreover, that in all the acts of address from 2008 to 2012 it is expected, at this point in a homogeneous way, that the Regions adopt a programming that entrusts to the Departments of mental health the taking charge of all subjects with mental disorders held and interned. Before concluding this brief report, I would like to remind you that the whole issue is ancient and refers to the approach of our penal code, the Rocco-Mussolini code, ante-war code and, in particular, to a criminal law approach of a certain type: I recall that we were talking about the ability to understand and to want to be punished, and it was not attributable to those who did not have this capacity. As a result of this, Article 88 of the Criminal Code referred, precisely, to the non-enhancing of those who were totally ill and had no capacity to understand and want, while Article 89 referred to the partial vice of mind, with a decrease for the eventual determination of the criminal liability and for the subsequent imposition of the penalty. This approach to re-use, resulting from these general rules - which within the Justice Commission are also seeking to revise from a more modern perspective, with an amendment of the General Part of the Criminal Code, as from multiple draft laws - has been followed by a series of rules dealing with the subjection to safety measures of persons deemed dangerous. The prerequisites are once again included in the General Part of the Criminal Code, and it is to that approach and to those rules that we must therefore also refer to the changes we are debating today. I would remind you, in particular, that the admission to a psychiatric judicial hospital is provided for by Article 222 of the Criminal Code, as amended over time, especially following interventions by the Constitutional Court, which has a little felled these rules of the Criminal Code. The second main measure on which action is taken today is the one relating to the assignment to a nursing home, referred to in Article 209 of the Criminal Code, for the sentenced person in a situation of diminished capacity to understand and to want for the situations envisaged. I conclude this part by saying that empowerment takes on a specific importance towards those who are guilty of acts of crime that have been acquitted as they are suffering from mental disorders, but to whom the detention measure is applied, as I have mentioned, either in a psychiatric hospital or in a home of care and custody. The work carried out by the Justice and Health Commissions also recognises the delicacy of the matter, because on the one hand the fundamental rights of the individual and, on the other hand, the security needs of the community must be taken into account. In search of this delicate balance, a few years ago, we arrived at the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals, with an attempt to bring these people, who are sick, under the care of adequate people and structures. The fundamental problem is precisely this, as Mr Dalla Zuanna will say, namely to arrive with adequate structures and staff able to intervene without causing harm to the individual or to collective security, especially when it comes to people who have suffered a condemnation or a declaration of social danger.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u68	I call the rapporteur, Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u69	[[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u70	Mr President, the decree-law extends to 1 April 2015 the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals, compared to the date of 1 April 2014, fixed in one of the first decree-laws converted in this legislature. The justification for this further extension is that the State, the Regions and the local health units are not yet ready to welcome in residences for the execution of security measures, so-called REMS, and in housing communities the current and future guests of psychiatric judicial hospitals. In fact, although the amounts allocated appear to be appropriate, they have not yet been paid to the regions, none of which has completed the REMS. On the other hand, housing communities are few and almost completely absent in large areas of the national territory. [[Brusio.]] President, please, I'm having a hard time talking! [[Call the president back.]] At present, the six OPGs currently active host an average of 900 inmates, 300 fewer than five years ago, with a turnover of 600 people per year. The guests are basically of two types: the first group has lived in the OPGs for years and years because the judge continues to extend their imprisonment often well beyond the time of punishment for the crime committed as there are no paths of personalized alternative territorial care. The second group spends relatively short time in OPG, mostly awaiting judgment. In the face of this request for an extension one cannot fail to feel a sense of frustration and impotence. As a result, the Senate Health and Justice Commissions propose amendments to the Government's decree, with the aim of putting an end to this national shame as quickly as possible. Most of the amendments take up the motion adopted unanimously by the Health Commission as the final act of an assigned affair. The main idea of the amending proposals is to empty the OPGs, on the one hand preventing temporary admissions, on the other hand by promoting the exit of the current admissions who do not present social danger, all without bringing any damage to public safety. With regard to temporary admissions, Amendment 1.6, which is mentioned in advance, suggests that the verification of social danger and protective custody of the accused who is ill or mentally ill are arranged and carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 286 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. by temporary admission to the appropriate hospital psychiatric facility of prison health and therefore not in the OPGs, avoiding feeding with new admissions. As regards final admissions, again for the period of extension, Amendment 1.2 (text 2) provides that the court must apply a safety measure other than admission to a psychiatric hospital, except where evidence is acquired from which it appears that any other measure is not suitable to deal with its social danger, the assessment of which is carried out solely on the basis of the subjective qualities of the person. In the same way, it will have to provide the supervisory magistrate when intervening under Article 679 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amending proposal would make it possible to prevent the judicial authority from deriving social danger from the apparent lack of adequate treatment and accommodation in a state of freedom. The imposition of the security measure could at last take place or continue only on the basis of the specific assessment of the personal situation of the infirm in mind and would make it possible to direct the judgment of social danger to the assessment of the individual case and the psychic conditions of the accused infirm in mind; it could not result from the state of socio-economic marginality in which he would be discharged. This would induce mental health services, at least in this way, to develop individualized and personalized therapeutic plans, aimed at guaranteeing the resignation of subjects often admitted to psychiatric judicial hospital only due to lack of concrete alternative situations. Amendment 1.5 (text 2) states that, with some exceptions, future REMS admissions may not last longer than 18 months. After the said period of entry into residence of the person not attributable or partly attributable, a new assessment is made of the continuing social danger. In the event that such danger is established, the surveillance magistrate shall order probation or, alternatively, pursuant to Article 679 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, apply the detention penalty provided for the offence for which it is carried out, reduced by the period of the security measure already carried out. This proposal, therefore, tends to reach the risk that the REMS will become small OPGs, i.e. places of concentration and chronicization of social danger, thus losing all therapeutic and rehabilitative efficacy compared to the vice of mind that has caused non-enhanced. The inclusion of a maximum permanence limit allows to verify in depth the existence of social danger and, at the same time, evaluate the adequacy of the personalized therapeutic plan carried out within the REMS. Any persistence of social danger may be re-evaluated and dealt with by other security measures other than prisons or, alternatively, by committing the ordinary prison sentence in the event of an accident. So this rule prevents any risk of the so-called white life sentences being committed. In the opinion of the Health and Justice Commissions, with the amended conversion of this decree-law, Parliament can make an important contribution to speeding up the emptying and closing of the PNGs, but without increasing in any way the social danger associated with mental illness. Some commendable experiences already present in the territories show that a different approach to the social danger of the infirm of mind is possible, developing individual paths of care and reintegration, limiting the measures of containment and limitation of freedom to the strictly necessary cases only. However, it is necessary to push all those involved to press the accelerator, first making it very difficult, in some cases impossible, the shortcut of hospitalizations in OPG. By converting this decree into law, with the amendments proposed by the Health and Justice Commissions, we will act in this very sense, forcing, as it were, our health system to take care in a personalized way of the last of the last, i.e. people today deprived not only of freedom, but also of a perspective for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u71	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a Senator Secretary: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 252]] Senators got votes: [[Pegorer 139 Vacciano 40 Sollo 12 Bisinella 4 Monti 4 Razzi 3 Santangelo 2 Scilipoti 2 Spread 8 White cards 29 None cards 9]] I declare Senator Pegorer elected Secretary, to whom I wish him every success. [[Applause.]] I'll do a little evaluation. It is worse than a public competition: if eight people compete for a secretary position, and with highly qualified names, there is really a job crisis around.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u72	Mr De Biasi, since you have been asked for the order of business to be reversed, do you think that the general debate should be moved to the afternoon, or do we start it now (in which case we would obviously have to interrupt it)?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u73	Mr President, since it is 12.50 p.m. and since the sitting is due to end at 1 p.m., I think it is appropriate to postpone it until the afternoon, also because of the seriousness of those who are going to start speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u74	The sitting was closed at 1.30 p.m. but the general debate would be interrupted. Do you confirm the proposal? DE BIASI (PD). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u75	I declare the general discussion open. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u78	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, the situation in Piombino is tragic. Italy's second iron and steel site is closing. A city of about 32,000 inhabitants risks imploding; a territory that since the post-war period has focused almost all its survival on a factory that produces steel realizes that shortly more than 4,000 workers of the Lucchini and the induced will be on their knees. After several unsuccessful sales attempts, a fruitless acquisition by the Severstal Group of the Russian Mordashow and a police station, we are today with the hot zone, the blast furnace, which has already stopped casting steel. On the contrary, this night the last casting took place and tomorrow the fusion plant will be loaded in white. On September 27, 2013 I was in that place together with other spokesmen of the 5 Star Movement for a visit inside the steel mill. It's like entering a group of Dante's hell: semi-abandoned metal structures and rust. Mountains of dark minerals, deposited along the road leading to the blast furnace, have condemned the area to a very high pollution rate. Brown smokes from the ovens made the air heavy and irrespirable and the landscape ghostly. In these decades, the city of Piombino has been administered by blind and deaf policies. No serious industrial conversion plan has been presented and implemented. Yet that slice of land has one of the most beautiful and rich in history of Tuscany: just a few steps away there are archaeological excavations of world interest, a millennial city like Populonia, the Etruscan coast, excellent food, fairytale sea, a piece of Italy that had to be valued to create new opportunities for work and development. In the heat of persevering in a policy that relies exclusively on the vote of exchange, that is, I make you work in hell in an unhealthy and high-risk environment and you survive and do not die of hunger (but maybe you die of something else...), no policy of development alternative to the production of steel has been conceived, no plan B of conversion of the territory and protection of the environment and work. In these days the workers even appealed to Pope Francis and the parties, the unions, those who have administered the city and the nation what they say? It took a 54-year-old worker, Paolo Francini, to go on a hunger strike to attract the attention of the national media. Yesterday I was in Piombino before the gates; with Paul I spoke to him: his is a desperate scream, the scream of a city that must regain its dignity, together with that of its workers. Today the reality is this: last night the last casting took place, the hot zone will be turned off in a few days, with the unions ready to tear their clothes. I remember that Italy boasts the strongest trade union system in Europe and the lowest wages for workers. Then someone's gonna ask a question sooner or later. The workers, if all goes well, will have to settle for contracts of solidarity, that is, one alms per month, but it will not be enough for them to guarantee a dignified life to them and their families. Even more dramatic is the risk that is expected, the very high risk of failure, with the consequent loss of social shock absorbers. Piombino thus dies, without any plans for the future. The 5 Star Movement wonders: who should we thank? [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u81	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, Ennio Flaiano argued that the book is the only inanimate object that can have dreams. I like to remember this image on the World Book and Copyright Day that is celebrated today, although, to be honest, the news has remained rather in the shadows on the pages of the newspapers. The book is not a mere object of consumption, as many would like us to believe. However, it is permissible to question. How do they change writing and reading in the face of the great multimedia and technological transformation taking place? How do they change, in a perspective in which the function of narrating in tune with the times and rhythms of the surrounding reality is carried out mainly by cinema, television and the Internet? How does the book object change in the era of rankings, advertising, best seller and editorial fashions, i.e. phenomena that tend to zero the differences between the success and the value of a work? We are a country that produces too many books and reads too little: quantity prevails over quality, information is increasingly replaced by knowledge and, consequently, the capacity for critical interpretation is thinning, creating, unfortunately, a insisted leveling down. Not only that, but, in full digital civilization and in the face of the great transformation we mentioned, the written word, at any level, cannot fail to suffer the effects of emptying, weight loss, a sort of trivialization, in the increasingly deep-rooted conviction that anything, including the most difficult concepts, can be explained, and therefore translated, in simple words. It's nonsense: complex topics require complex language. For this reason, the book, at all levels, maintains a central and irreplaceable function in formation, not only in school: because it shapes the reader, accustomed him to formulate the right questions, refines the intelligence of sensitivity, produces knowledge. Certainly, in the mercantile perspective and of the monetization of the culture in which we live immersed, consumer literature appears more and more like the most exposed face of today's conformism; and, however, a quality literature will survive only if it will be able to cross, making it interpreter, the different languages, according to a strong stylistic brand that returns to the written word originality, uniqueness and thickness. In the face of an increasingly unbalanced publishing on income, which is increasingly hopeless and less and less willing, the hope is that in general the overall level of all cultural consumption can be raised and that the book - in its various variations, between the survival of paper and the great opportunities of digital - continues to represent an opportunity; it is still able, that is, to explain the world in which we live, is a mirror capable of offering an image, regardless of the content it conveys from time to time. So that those who do not give up responsibility in the face of the changes taking place may, in fact, still recognize in the written word, and therefore in the book in all its forms, a fragile place, but certainly a possibility, limited as much as they want, but irreplaceable of truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u84	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, negotiations began in May 2013 on the Free Trade Agreements between the United States and the European Union, the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, better known as TTIP, considered by many to be the most important free trade agreement in history and the world. The questionnaire for the informal consultation on TTIP, open to all citizens, associations and groups, is available on the European Commission's website. One of the disturbing aspects of the agreement is that the incentive to export between the two parts of goods and services - thus also essential services such as, for example, the management of the integrated water service - is based not on the identification of tax barriers to be removed but on regulatory barriers to be harmonised. Therefore, it is likely that European regulations will be adapted to those of the United States which are normally less stringent. In the European Parliament, the Green Group has defined this agreement as a Trojan horse for its impact on the environment, economy and agriculture. Despite the great importance of the agreement, however, all meetings and meetings have so far been secreted. We therefore call on the Government to be transparent about this negotiation and also to take further action and debate so as to provide citizens and associations with the means to make their contribution to this public consultation. We have therefore tabled a question on this subject (the 4-02109) with which we ask the Government to take an interest in this very important affair. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u87	DE SIANO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to call on the Ministers of the Interior, Justice and Cultural Heritage and Tourism to respond to Question No 4-01095 tabled by myself and Senator Longo last November. Three times we have asked the relevant ministries in writing without ever receiving an answer. We therefore ask that there should be a call for a response to the above-mentioned question, which has as its object the phenomenon of building abuse in Campania, and specifically in the Municipality of Capri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u88	Senator De Siano, it will be our duty to urge the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-235.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.02 p.m.
