ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-00881 will be taken first, on compliance with compulsory health treatment procedures. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject outlined in this inspection, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Health, as far as its competence is concerned, is responsible for the activation of lines of intervention, shared with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, aimed at improving the quality of care, in terms of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, in favour of people with mental disorders and their families. The protection of mental health has always constituted - there are evidence of this interest - the subject of great priority attention in the planning of health and social interventions of our country. All policies to designate an organic framework of interventions and to address the major emerging criticalities in the field of mental health have always referred, also in our country, to the strategies that the main European bodies have been developing over the last few years. Italy has always actively participated in these different programming and operational moments, thus promoting the transition from the formulation of formally and culturally shared principles, to the formulation of new policies and the implementation of concrete interventions, and this in all its institutional articulations (state, regions and local self-governments). While aware that the implementation of the regulatory and policy guidelines is not always homogeneous in the national territory, presenting sometimes considerable differences between the different regions, and that the quality of the services is not always a direct guarantee of the quality of the care taken by patients, it can be said that the mental health services to date are nevertheless functionally and sufficiently configured to the needs of flexibility and continuity for the treatment of mental disorders. In mental health services there are various integrated therapeutic strategies of documented effectiveness, but it is the responsibility of the health care professional in the field to issue a diagnosis and to assess what are the most appropriate interventions to be carried out, including the treatment to be taken, both pharmacological and psychotherapeutic. Clinical decisions on the individual patient require the application of recommendations based on the best scientific evidence in the light of the clinical experience of the individual physician and all contextual circumstances. Each person then has the right to accept or refuse a therapeutic proposal. With regard to claims relating to compulsory health treatment (TSO), it is noted that this treatment is - according to the Ministry of Health - an act of dual nature (medical and legal) which, if properly applied, is able to protect both the health and the rights of the person subject to it, providing that mental health services, organised in departmental form, must ensure the take-up and continuity of therapeutic-rehabilitative treatments. It is therefore within this concept that the TSO should be framed as a treatment phase in the context of continuity of care which continues, after its resignation, in other departmental services. The problems mentioned in the parliamentary act do not appear to be attributable to regulatory malfunctions. This Ministry therefore does not consider it necessary to review the TSO from a regulatory point of view, much less in relation to the scope, but rather to monitor its correct application. Moreover, as is well known, in compliance with the division of competences between the State and the Regions, the exclusive competence in the matter of taking charge and health care (as also indicated in the question), as well as in the organization of health services, is at the head of the regional administrations. It should also be remembered at this point that the Ministry of Health, in consultation with the Regions and Autonomous Provinces, drew up in 2013 the National Plan of Actions on Mental Health, a programmatic document considered by all the actors of the relevant system. This document takes into account, alongside the spread of psychic disorders, the emergence of new needs in a rapidly changing social and health scenario, identifies priority areas of need and clearly defines the critical points to be addressed in the field of mental health, both adult and childhood and adolescence. The whole plan provides the basis for the development of actions, the concept of "take-up and treatment routes" that can be used, that can intercept the current demands of the population and help to renew the organisation of services, the working methods of the teams, the updated clinical programmes offered to users. The plan also provides for the possible definition of differentiated instruments and the production of specific guidelines in certain areas, in particular those of residential psychiatric and day-cycle treatments, both in adulthood and in evolutionary age. From this general strategy come other operational documents that I will not quote in detail, which will help to promote greater appropriateness and effectiveness of the interventions implemented by the Regions, which are holders of the organization of the assistance. With regard to the other part of the question, with regard to the specific problems referred to in the same question, the Prefecture of Arezzo, which we have requested, provided the following information. the sanitary director of the USL8 of Arezzo has specified - I quote the communication of the prefecture - that, in the website of the company USL8 of Arezzo is published the relative information to the organization of the business services and the modalities of access (seats, contact details, etc.), also for the services of mental health, including the service of the zone district of Valdarno. The professional curricula and the company's Charter of Services are also published. The section dedicated to the modules is also being implemented, with respect to which Legislative Decree No. 33 of 14 March 2013 specifies that the forms and forms requested by the company for the initiation of the proceedings must be published and, in the case of non-publication, such procedures may be initiated even in the absence of the above-mentioned forms and forms. For the specifics of the pathologies followed by the Mental Health Service - it is always the prefecture that writes - any taking charge of a user is accompanied by all the necessary clarifications related to the psychiatric diagnosis, to the legislation on the respect of the right to confidentiality (with subscription of the relative modules), as well as to the collection of the informed consent regarding the pharmacological therapy or the path of care that is chosen and proposed. In the rehabilitation it is expected that the citizen will be actively involved in the drafting of objectives and interventions. Such involvement leads to the signing of the project, and the service engages with the person interested to share it also with the living family. In the various individual therapeutic-rehabilitative projects, are also defined the time of verification and the modifications in itinere that become necessary. Every cohabiting family member and the person concerned sign the project together with the contact person (doctor, psychologist and professional educator) and also acquire a copy of it. The activity carried out by the company's mental health services is based on compliance with national and regional regulations, as well as national and international guidelines of the reference scientific community. With regard to the provision of services, the entire procedure relating to the supply of goods and services is managed by the body of the health service of the Tuscany Region, constituted for the exercise of the technical, administrative and support functions to the same health companies. Specifically, the process was carried out by the South-East Region of Tuscany, where it is possible to find all the information related to the tender and subsequent procurement of the health, social and welfare services of the USL8. They are indicated - they are all consultable documents - the resolution of the Director-General of the ESTAV Sud-Est of 24 August 2011, concerning the indication of six open procedures for three-year assignments, and the management determination 9 May 2012, n. 231, concerning the award of six open procedures for the three-year custody of health services and social assistance. The prefecture continues to inform us that, having recovered the documents from the USL, regarding services aimed at the elderly and/or children, managed by bodies other than the USL8, the information can be found on the respective information portals. As far as - you will excuse me for the length, but the request for information is very punctual and I try to give an adequate answer - to Dr. Bartolucci, the local health company has specified that the contractual relationship is with the co-operative Koinè, contract contractor and, therefore, has no competence regarding the organizational position of the same cooperative. Compared to economic data, the company proceeds to the publication of its financial statements, which can be consulted, as well as the other information provided by the legislation, in the section "transparent administration" of its website; section that, due to the peculiarity of the subject, is constantly updated and implemented, also in order to make the published information more intelligible to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u7	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, who answered all parts of my question in a timely manner, where doubts were raised about the issues of compulsory admission and the transparency to be given to citizens. In fact, this question stems from a question that has been given to us in relation to specific cases of the USL8 in Valdarno. Thank you for taking into account the fact that there is a website where you can find everything that the interrogators - and in this case myself as the first signatory - asked themselves. We wondered how it was possible that there were no clarifications on the problems, while from his answer it is clear that the municipality, and therefore the health company, have remedyed this. I am therefore completely satisfied with your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u8	The following is question 3-00844, on the correct information on the risks of vaccination. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 May 2014, the World Health Organisation (WHO) stated that the recent re-introduction and spread of wild poliovirus is an international public health emergency. Following this declaration, the Italian Ministry of Health published the circular entitled "Updating the recommendations of immunoprophylaxis in relation to the continuing emergency of immigrants from North Africa and the risk of re-introduction of poliovirus in Italy." The risk of polio emerging in Europe is also considered real by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Italy has so far maintained a high proportion of vaccinated subjects (vaccination is compulsory for new born since 1968) and, thanks to this, has been able to remain free also from other geographically close epidemics, such as that of Albania in 1996. It is of primary importance to maintain high vaccine coverage, not only to reduce the risk of re-introduction, but to achieve the global goal of polio eradication, after which vaccinations can be stopped, as has already happened for smallpox. Italy has also signed the eradication plan with WHO for measles and congenital rubella. The measles vaccine has been available for over 40 years and has a high safety profile. As a result of vaccination measles have been eliminated in many countries, including Finland, Cuba, Mexico, South Korea and Australia. Although currently about 90 percent of children aged one year are vaccinated with a dose of anti-morbillo vaccine (but there are areas with very different values from 71.5 to 96.7 percent), in the 80s and 90s the proportion of vaccinated children was very low and therefore there are pockets of adults in our country, still susceptible to measles, to which it is necessary to orient additional vaccination activities. It should be noted at this point that the presence of a possible causal association between vaccination with MPR vaccine and autism has been, according to the data available for the Ministry of Health, extensively studied, and none of the more than 20 studies carried out in the last thirteen years has confirmed that there may be a causal relationship between MPR vaccine and autism. In addition, the authors themselves of the first British study that launched the alarm later withdrew their conclusions and stated that the data submitted were insufficient to establish a possible causal relationship and, in 2010, the well-known medical journal "The Lancet" which had published the study mentioned above in 1998, formally withdrew the article. In addition, the possible relationship between MPR vaccines and autism has also been extensively analysed by an independent expert group in the USA, which, on the basis of an in-depth review of existing clinical and epidemiological studies, concluded that the evidence available rejects the hypothesis of a causal relationship. Having said that, it is of primary importance to achieve and maintain high vaccine covers. The main reason why some parents are reluctant to vaccinate their children is the reduced perception of the risk of individual diseases, considered non-existent or relatively benign. Decades ago, when tens of thousands of children and adults contracted diseases such as smallpox, diphtheria, polio, the offer of vaccination was received much more positively. The presence of a widespread and free offer, guaranteed by the obligation, has been a powerful factor in the fight against inequalities, offering the same rights to prevention to children born in every part of our country. The safety of vaccines was not questioned because people were more afraid of the diseases themselves than of possible side effects of the vaccines themselves. At present, unfortunately, the reduced perception of the severity of the disease and the increased fear of the risks of vaccination are causing a fertile soil in which the voices of groups opposed to vaccination are amplified. In this context, the Public Prosecutor of Trani has started an epidemiological investigation to verify the possible correlation between autism and vaccines and this evaluation will be entrusted to a pool of experts (a medical examiner, a neurologist and a childhood neuropsychiater). The decision of the Public Prosecutor of Trani follows the judgment of the ordinary tribunal of Rimini of 2012, which had recognized, on the basis of the opinion of an expert expert, that this report exists, contrary to the assessments of the World Health Organization, the national health authorities and many national and international scientific societies that deal with this problem. These situations, widely taken up by the media, amplify the perception of the danger of vaccines and, of course, also help to reduce the scientific credibility of the institutions dealing with this subject, which can sometimes also be called into question by a " pool of experts." To counter these wrong tendencies, we are convinced that the medical community must also provide accurate and balanced information on the risks of diseases and the risks and benefits of vaccinations, assuming that every child has the right to be protected from potentially very serious diseases. Regarding the initiatives of the Ministry of Health, there are at least two important initiatives, one of which is the National Plan of Vaccine Prevention 2012-2014, approved with State-Regions agreement in February 2012, which, among the objectives listed, also has to design and implement actions to enhance information and communication, in order to promote the updating of health professionals and to spread the culture of vaccine prevention as a conscious and responsible choice of citizens. Also the draft national plan of the prevention 2014-2018, currently in phase of confrontation with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, within the "Macro Objective 9" - Reduce the frequency of infections/infectious priority diseases, previews, between the strategies to implement at regional level the communication for the general population and specific subgroups; the training for the health professionals on the priority of prevention identified, and, between the objectives, that to plan strategies of communication of the risk aimed to the correct management and information on the vaccines and the infectious diseases preventable own through the vaccination.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u12	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his timely reply. I would like to make a few evaluations which arise from the statements made earlier in the hearing in the Health Commission by Minister Lorenzin, who recalled, with reference to the European semester chaired by Italy, that, as far as health is concerned, one of the key points will be an information campaign as well as a concrete vaccination campaign. The issue of the increase in diseases that had been eradicated in Europe, especially in some parts of Europe, is a real emergency, as you mentioned in the initial part of your response. The question of the reduced perception of the risks and the reduced use by many parents of the vaccine, I do not say it is an emergency, but it begins to be a serious problem also in Italy. So let us welcome the plans you have referred to as the enhanced implementation of the National Vaccine Prevention Plan 2012-2014 and the definition of the National Prevention Plan, which I also think is time-consuming enough. It is indeed necessary to provide for an information and training campaign for all citizens, using all the tools we have available, from "advertising progress" to important activities aimed at all citizens, to be done even at particular times when there is a greater sensitivity than the relationship with children. Compared to the planning of agreements in the State-Regions Conference, I think how important it would be to make formation and information in the moments of preparation for childbirth, when planning motherhood, fatherhood, the birth of a child, as well as at the very moment of birth. In these moments there is, in fact, greater attention and a greater capacity to receive information which must be as correct as possible. I think, for example, that, speaking of children, it would be really important to establish an important alliance, favoured by the Government, the State and the Ministry, among the fundamental professionals of the sector and, therefore, the pediatricians, through the promotion of important activities to be done with the Cultural Association of Pediatricians, the Italian Society of Pediatricians, as well as the Italian Federation of Pediatric Doctors. Italy, among other things, is the only country in Europe that has the figure of the basic pediatrician. We must therefore enhance and further use these figures because pediatricians are the main connoisseurs of the whole family and health path of the unborn child who is becoming a teenager and an adult. The theme of an important pact that restores a strong credibility to professionals is not a small matter because we in Italy have already had and, unfortunately, we still have an awareness of the enormous difficulties that arose when a certain way of doing information or distorted misinformation, created panic, referring to particular states of mind of the citizens. I am thinking, for example, of the Stamina case, which is one of the cases, such as those mentioned by the Undersecretary and which I also referred to in the question, in which, faced with a less sensitive attitude to the risks by many parents, there were courts, such as that of Rimini, that of Pesaro and others, which instead affirmed the existence of a causal relationship between the vaccine and autism. In essence, it is necessary to return to medical knowledge the scientific and authoritativeness that are the fundamental point in order to be able to stem the fundamental risk of returning to diseases that have been eradicated, all the more with the things that are reported to us. I refer - as an indicator and not as a negative figure - to what often comes to us with the tragedy of immigrants and people who come from countries where this type of health trail is not there; we therefore need to protect these citizens who arrive in our country, while avoiding that certain risks may reappear. I would therefore like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, and I hope that on the commitments already in place and on the others that he has announced there will be a rapid journey, because the issue of children's health is crucial.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-00977, on the committees of national scientific qualification for university professors. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u14	Madam President, the honourable Member refers to a matter known to the Ministry's offices. As pointed out in the parliamentary act, article 8, paragraph 6, of the decree of the President of the Republic no. 222 of 2011, provides the deadline of five months from the publication of the notice for the conclusion of the work by the commissions established for the evaluation of candidates for the national scientific qualification of university professors of first and second classes. Already during the operations for the first part-session, this deadline had been subject to some extensions, made necessary by the novelty of the procedure, introduced to implement the forecasts of Law No 240 of 2010, due to its complexity and the high number of candidates. The administration is conducting an in-depth reflection on the subject of national scientific qualification, also with a view to a possible future revision of the same discipline. For this reason, taking into account the need posed by the honourable Member, a measure has recently been adopted which, in the more than announced revision of the framework, has been extended to 30 September 2014, without interruption, the deadline for the completion of the work of the committees appointed for the 2013 part-session. This measure, which was necessarily to be taken by means of a legislative act, was transposed by Article 14 of Decree-Law No 90 of 24 June 2014, which contains urgent measures for administrative simplification and transparency and for the efficiency of judicial offices (OJ No 144 of 24 June 2014). The same article provides, moreover, pending the revision necessary to improve the procedures previewed for the attainment of the national scientific rating, the suspension in derogation to the previewed from article 16, paragraph 3, letter d), of the law n. 240 of 2010, of the indiction of the procedures relative to the next part-session for the year 2014. The same provision sets at 31 March 2015 the date by which the calls of the second-range professors related to the extraordinary plan for the years 2012 and 2013, thus allowing the resources allocated for the extraordinary plan to be used also to call those who will be qualified at the end of the second round. I would like to assure you that the Ministry will continue to follow this issue, in order to arrive at the solutions that will be considered most appropriate, also by comparing themselves with the proposals that will come from the parliamentary offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u17	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I can only be satisfied with the answer, but I am encouraged by the intervention of the Undersecretary to underline the full sharing of the need for a thorough revision of the licensing system because this has shown some very insurmountable limits that result in a type of selection that does not guarantee positive effects especially with regard to humanities with the median system and with the reduction of everything to numerical evaluations while we have to evaluate intelligence, skills and preparation. From the other point of view, this system, rather than simplifying the procedural model of recruitment of university teaching staff, ultimately complicates it by introducing this localized competition that, in the context of crowding those entitled to the possible call, shadows a two-level selection with great problems from the point of view of an orderly and effective selection of staff and the creation of real career spaces for university staff. In this also lies a further reflection on the same way of thinking about the selection of university staff in a logic that must overcome the contrast that occasionally arises between the call of university professors of career and the call of the great personalities, which should not take place in a modern university. One final consideration. Announcing the suspension of the second round of 2014 and the postponement to March 1, 2015 of the term for the call of the associate professors, you mentioned the topic - which not only concerns the associated professors - of the missed calls related to the financial criticality, that have affected many of the suitable of the 2008-2009 rounds and that now come to interest also the qualified. I believe that there must be two criteria in this respect: it is not possible to combine or equate the situation of the eligible persons with that of the qualified persons. The eligible have acquired a suitability that is more than one rating, they have acquired it before. There is a legally protected expectation and constitutionally relevant expectation which should be taken into account, not least because a conflict between Renzo's chickens should not be created, but a solution must be found that gives a balanced possibility of access. I believe that from this point of view the measure ventilated by the minister Giannini, that is to say to eliminate the organic point for these calls to invariance of budget, means to put the universities in front of only one question: whether or not they want to use their own resources to call the suitable ones, without burdening on the organic point, which then more generally concerns the possibility of calling the universities themselves. On the other hand, if it is right to favour the members and give access to the qualified, I believe that these passages must be made for a problem of fairness but also for the problems of a university system that cannot be allowed to disperse the intelligences that it has selected only because of a very dramatic economic and cyclical budget, which has closed the possibilities of calling.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u18	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u21	CASALETTO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to ask a reply to Question 4-00741, which was sent last August 2013 to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and to the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. The question is a question that concerns me closely because it asks for clarification on the famous Villa Reale in Monza, which, together with its park, represents a jewel of the neoclassical period of world value. In 2010 the public consortium that manages it - composed of Ministry of Cultural Heritage, Lombardy Region, Municipality of Monza, City of Milan - has decided to entrust its restructuring and management to a private subject, to be identified through a restricted tender announced on March 17, 2010 by Infrastructures Lombardy, the SpA that presides over the valorization, management, alienation and maintenance of the real estate of Lombardy Region. In this question, together with other colleagues, I asked what initiatives the Ministers of competence intend to take in order to promote the establishment of a technical commission super partes that will verify the effectiveness, consistency and quality of the interventions carried out and to be carried out in the Villa Reale and that carries out activities of direction and control on the subsequent management of the monument by assigning it to cultural activities, as also provided for in Article 8 of the act of free transfer of the Villa to the Municipalities of Monza and Milan of 1996. I was still asking if the Ministers would not wish to take action with the relevant administrations to ensure the protection of legality and the environment with regard to the restructuring and relative management of the monumental complex.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u22	The Presidency will request the answer to your question, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u23	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-271.ana.u24	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.39 p.m.
