ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 13 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u7	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, violent storms have once again hit North Italy and in particular Lombardy, Piedmont and Liguria in recent days. The wave of bad weather caused, in addition to considerable material damage, the death of three people: a 70-year-old man and his 16-year-old nephew, victims of a landslide that destroyed their home in Cerro di Laveno, in the province of Varese, and a 21-year-old girl in Alba, in the province of Cuneo. Moreover, in Liguria a man is still missing, overwhelmed by the flood of a stream. On behalf of all my colleagues, I express my profound closeness to the people affected and my gratitude to all those who, with generosity and dedication, are engaged in relief operations. I call on the House, in remembrance of the victims, to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1527, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u9	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already adopted by the House last June, concerning the extension of Italy's financial participation to multilateral development banks for Latin America and the Caribbean. With this bill, Italy honours precise commitments made over the last few decades in the international framework which have been expressed, with regard to the Caribbean Development Bank, in Law No 198 of 17 May 1988, which refers to Italy's accession to the Bank's founding agreement, adopted in Kingston, Jamaica, on 18 October 1969, and subsequent amendments and resolutions, and their implementation, and to the Inter-American Development Bank in Law No 191 of 13 April 1977, concerning its accession to the Bank's founding agreement, adopted in Washington on 8 April 1959, as well as to its amendments and their implementation. With this measure our Country confirms its interest in global economic development, with particular regard to areas considered, culturally and economically, of primary importance for our Country: not least because of the presence of a substantial community of Italian origin. Moreover, the strengthening of our contribution to the two banks will be able to implement our ability to affect the development policy in that area and determine new positive repercussions on the Italian economy, both for the possible direct participation of national companies in the tenders financed by the loans provided, and for the effect of the indirect stimulus to world trade. In fact, an important fact, reported by the Government, during the parliamentary examination of the measure, is that over the last three years, through investments financed by the Inter-American Development Bank, our business system has been able to count on interventions for several million US dollars. Another consideration must be given to the recipients of the funding that this House is called upon to approve. The Caribbean Development Bank is a regional financial institution founded in 1969 in Barbados, currently made up of 27 member countries, including Italy, since 1988; its main objective is to reduce poverty in the Caribbean region by granting loans to governments and private entities, as well as providing financial and technical assistance. There are more than 15 countries in Central America that have benefited since its foundation from the possibility of using loans and assistance in the various areas of its commitment, such as the fight against poverty, the development of human resources and sustainable growth, in particular in the mining sector, social services, finance, distribution, energy, transport and communications, tourism and manufacturing. The Inter-American Development Bank, based in Washington, is the largest regional multilateral development institution set up in 1959 and currently consisting of 48 Member States, including Italy, since 1977, with the aim of contributing to the economic and social development of the Latin American and Caribbean countries. In its 55 years of activity it has proved to be one of the most important development aid institutions capable of catalysing and directing large flows of resources to the region. Its institutional tasks are the fight against poverty, the development of social infrastructure, support for the development of the private sector, the financing of technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of development programmes. To date, the Bank has financed operations in various sectors, mobilising financing for projects worth more than USD 200 billion. These are, therefore, interventions of certain importance for Italian foreign policy in a framework of active participation in global development policies. It should also be noted that participation in the capital of banks and multilateral development funds is an integral part of public development aid, as is also provided for in Article 5 of Law No 125 on the reform of international cooperation, adopted last August. This investment, by committing an important share of the resources allocated to our public development aid, as has been pointed out in the discussion of the text in the House and in the discussion that took place at the competent Senate Commission, requires from the operational plan a strengthening of the collaboration between the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which deals with relations with banks and multilateral development funds, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, in order to verify also the results of such financing with a view to greater transparency, as the Italians ask us and as we now believe necessary. The decision to honour the financial commitments entered into and, indeed, to increase them quantitatively in the coming years therefore represents a challenge that Italy must seize, also valued the interest that our Country has always reserved to the new economies. The bill to the attention of the House was supplemented by the discussion held in the House with two new articles added to the original bill of government initiative. In particular, paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Law No. 49 of 1987 on the cooperation of Italy with developing countries has been supplemented, introducing criteria of transparency, effectiveness and monitoring of the effects of interventions; then, the last period of paragraph 2 -bis of the same article 4 of the above mentioned law is replaced, providing for the drafting and transmission to the Chambers, by March 31 of each year, of a report concerning the activities carried out in the previous year. As is well known, the debate that led to these additions to Law No. 49 of 1987 has intertwined with the discussion and the enactment of the new law on international cooperation for development, namely Law No. 125 finally approved by the Senate on August 1, 2014. It should be pointed out that it will, however, enter into force, together with its implementing regulation, fully replacing Law No 49 of 1987, probably only by August-September 2015. In fact, at this date we arrive to sum the limit of 6 months previewed for the writing of the statute of the new agency for the cooperation (from the publication in the Official Gazette of the new law, happened in August 2014, that is to say by February 2015) and the ulterior 6 months from the entry into force of the implementing regulation of the agency, arriving therefore to the date presumed of August-september 2015. The current year, therefore, is to be considered as a transition towards the effective entry into force of Law No 125 of August 2014, which will happen, as said, presumably in about a year. Therefore, with the approval of this bill and also thanks to the changes made to the still existing law n. 49 of 1987, some of the novelties regarding the criteria of transparency and effectiveness of management expenditure and development cooperation interventions will be anticipated, which will be further specified with the entry into force of the new law on international cooperation for development (in particular, with the provisions of article 12, paragraph 4). On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the debate on this bill in the relevant Senate Commission has taken due account both of the changes made by the House to the draft law under consideration and of the new law on international cooperation. As mentioned above, the bill consists of 3 articles. The paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 1 authorize our country to participate in the capital increase of the Caribbean Development Bank, through the subscription of 9.353 shares for a total of 56,414,864.22 US dollars, of which 12,413,320.92 to be paid in four installments, for an estimated total cost in euros 3,064,153 for 2014, in euros 1,532,077 for each of the years 2015 and 2016 and in euros 3,064,153 for 2017. The subscription of the capital increase, approved by Resolution 4/10 of 19 May 2010 of the Board of Governors of the Bank, will allow Italy to maintain its share of 5.73 percent unchanged. The coverage is ensured by the resources referred to in Article 7 (3) of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, converted, with amendments, by Law No 214 of 22 December 2011. It should be noted that the euro-dollar exchange rates will be determined on the dates of individual payments. Paragraph 5 of Article 1 also authorizes Italy to subscribe 9,800 shares in the capital of the Inter-American Development Bank, of which 238 paid-up shares for a total of $2,871.097, to be paid in accordance with the procedures determined by the governors of the Bank, and the remaining $9,562 calls. The unit price of the shares is set at just over 12,000 US dollars. No fluctuations in the nominal value of the shares are therefore possible. It is laid down that such subscription shall be made within the limits of the resources already authorised for participation in the capital of that Bank. Italy, therefore, will increase its share in the capital of the banking institution, from 1.896% to 1.965 percent. These actions became available due to the failure of the Netherlands and Venezuela to participate in the latest capital increase in 2010. Article 2 provides for the two-year convening of the Italy-Latin America and Caribbean Conference in order to strengthen the development of Italy's relations with Latin American countries. Article 3, as widely specified, amends paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Law No. 49 of 1987, including the aforementioned criteria of effectiveness, economicity, unity and transparency of management and intervention expenses, and supplements paragraph 2 -bis with the passage to the Chambers by March 31 of the report concerning the activities carried out in the previous year, drawn up, according to the dictions of the time, by the Minister of the Treasury, the budget and economic planning, in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Finally, it should be noted that the title of the measure was also incorporated during the examination in the Chamber, establishing the precise reference to the multilateral development banks of Latin America and the Caribbean. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u12	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, as Vice-President of the Group, (as our Parent Company has been expelled), I would like to point out that we have just left the Chamber following what we have said many times in recent weeks, because we do not think it is any longer sustainable to express a false solidarity in this House, when, instead, we do not make the appropriate rules of law or, in any case, take initiatives, in order to combat the hydrogeological failure, which is now rampant. It is clear that we cannot go on like this. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] At this point, whenever solidarity is shown in these ways, we will not be present in this House. We expected, at least today - since you are champions of the decrees - the immediate enactment of a decree-law of urgency (which is the only reason why a decree-law should be made) to heal the Italian territory and finally to touch, in a uniform way throughout the national territory and finally, the problem of the failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u13	Thank you, Senator Scibona.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u15	Mr President, the rapporteur has already explained a great deal of the content of this measure, which, although it is certainly not a large one, is, however, a testament to the way in which matters are dealt with when it comes to international aid: not money in the rain, but the participation in the capital of banks that help our entrepreneurs and companies with Italian capital, or often mixed capital, to operate in those territories. These banks, in fact, are a point of reference for the communities that in those areas have created activities, activities that are in close contact with companies in our territory, because often to guide them there are relatives, friends or acquaintances of subjects and entrepreneurs who operate in our country. This must also be emphasized because the in-depth debate that took place in the Commission has certainly helped everyone to understand the real consequences of such a measure. It may seem, as I said before, a marginal measure, but the market in Latin America and the interesting Caribbean market are among those that today - if you think about the statistics of the BRICS countries - sees companies reward. Just this morning, in our newspapers there was the news that managers of those companies are more paid than managers of companies operating in our country. In fact, those markets see rewarding the effervescence of economies that do not have the laces and laces of our economy, that do not have the bureaucratic constraints present in our country, that therefore do not have those financial laces, due to the absence of banks that make the banks, present instead in our country and that the Government has not been able to face and resolve despite the money that the Italian banks have received from the European Central Bank. In addition to its original purpose, I believe it is important to stress an aspect relating to the measure under consideration, namely the content of Article 3, inserted in the Chamber, which carries out a transparency operation, especially in letter b). It states that the Chambers must be informed about what is done by these institutions, and above all they must be able to understand whether there is actually waste and bad management of the institutions themselves; which can also happen, but certainly less so than large banking groups in our country, and I could mention many. Another point to highlight is that a concept is finally being reaffirmed, which should also be clear for those who work within the economic and financial world of our country and the whole of Europe, especially in the context of the great Western democracies where some wrong choices have been the first reason for the crisis of the world's economic and financial system since 2006: I refer to the need to be inspired by criteria of effectiveness, economicity and transparency in communicating and managing all interventions. This is crucial. Unfortunately, I have to stress one more point, at the end of my brief speech. We insert these right indications and give these correct addresses in a measure such as the one under consideration, which concerns financial institutions operating outside our country. In many cases the same arrangements are also provided for by us, but we often forget to have them implemented and checked if the Italian financial institutions actually work in the interests of our people, our economy, our companies or instead in the interest of someone else who is very distant, but probably very close to the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u17	Mr President, I take the floor briefly on this measure - it will then be Senator Minzolini who will explain in explanations of vote the Group's position on the measure as a whole - because, since it is aimed at a greater Italian presence and a development of Italian activity in the Caribbean area, I wanted to point out that, while we put this sum anything but secondary given the times (56 million dollars) to participate in a bank for the development of Latin America and the Caribbean, at the same time we close the most important Italian embassy in that area, that of the Dominican Republic, a country where there are a large number of residents, a large number of members of AIRE and many other non-registered Italians, as well as an important trade exchange. The closure of this embassy means that the reference one becomes the Panama Embassy, which is 1,600 kilometers away, requires the payment of air tickets of significant cost and, moreover, those who live in Santo Domingo to go to Panama must have a visa. We are therefore faced with an intervention that is truly counter-tendant. I believe that the amount needed to keep the embassy in Santo Domingo open would be much lower than what we are now lurking to recapitalise a bank. Moreover, while another bank can do what a bank can do, what our presence of diplomatic support can do in terms of effective guarantee cannot be provided by other bodies. I therefore ask the Government, even though I did not formally present an agenda, to take account of this intervention when the deadline for submission had expired. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u18	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u19	Mr President, the measure before us contains provisions concerning participation in multilateral development banks, i.e. banks for which many countries, such as the very rich Italy, invest public money to promote the development of other countries, in this case Latin America and the Caribbean. Well, when they say we're a generous country, we're not kidding. Of course! Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of paradox. We're getting ridiculed, and none of us have the courage to admit it. On the contrary, some of us are not afraid to say that this measure is yet another act that will cause Italy to sink towards the abyss. But the government is careful, so much so that in the analysis of the impact of regulation we want to psychologically threaten the reader. Yes, because, once again, it is stressed that the failure to adopt this measure would result in serious failures on the part of our country. And Italy would never fail to fulfil its international commitments! But failure - I wonder - to whom? And then, do Italian citizens know that previous governments have signed international commitments that will affect their pockets? Eh no, that cannot be said to citizens, but above all to Italian entrepreneurs who have been harassed by IRAP and VAT. Never! The important thing is to help Caribbean entrepreneurs, so they need our help. The important thing is to reduce poverty in the Caribbean region. Then who cares about poverty in the Italian nation? Who cares anyway? I really do not understand the urgency of adopting a measure like this, which, among other things, is absolutely not ratification. As you know, the Foreign Affairs Committee operates in the referee when there are ratifications of international treaties and conventions. Yet there are cases in which the Commission is suddenly asked to intervene in the referee as if there were an imminent deadline, so much so that the Italian State collapses! In fact, continuing in this way, by approving measures of this scale (especially financial), I do not say that the collapse will be imminent, but certainly inevitable. In fact, it would be avoidable, but I don't think most people want to bail. Rather, right here I would like to point out the paradox in which this majority fell, which is then the same one that supported the Led Government. Paradox of which, unfortunately, Italian citizens are unaware, but which they should be aware instead. In essence, that's what happened. Article 3 of this provision provides for two amendments to Article 4 of Law No 49 of 26 February 1987. This law brings the new discipline of the cooperation of Italy with the developing countries, which the Senate of the Republic has dealt with this summer. I remind everyone that with Act No. 1326, today Act No. 125 of 11 August 2014, the Parliament, approving the text of the reform of the field of cooperation, has foreseen the overcoming of the aforementioned law, which dates back to 1987. Beyond any kind of political assessment of the measure, in the light of the speedy approval of the aforementioned Senate Act 1326-A (repeat: reform of international development cooperation), as well as the content of the draft law that we are discussing today in this House - in compliance with an international decision of the year 2010, therefore not urgent - I would like to stress the dichotomy of the Government and the majority in relation to the experiment of political action in the field of international development cooperation. If, in all haste, you have felt that you have to exceed the provisions of norms dating back to twenty-seven years ago, with the measure under consideration, even contemporary in temporal terms with the reform approved, (the draft law under consideration and the draft government law for the reform of development cooperation were both submitted in February 2014) you are proposing to Parliament to continue to use large funds to modify the same dated norm, of which, moreover, another Senate Act, has already decided to exceed it; moreover, to comply with a non-urgent international decision. The 5 Star Movement can't understand you. You are contradictory and, although we have pointed this out to you, so much so that colleagues in the House have been able to suspend your examination until the reform of cooperation is approved, today in the Senate we have to point out again some inconsistencies. I would like to remind the citizens a little sceptical that on the occasion of the reform of cooperation the opposition of the 5 Star Movement was responsible, so much so that they contributed to the writing of the 5 Star Movement with more than ten amendments, all approved, which, although passed to history as a victory of the Democratic Party, were the result of a constructive dialogue and not of the obstructive attitude of which you used to accuse us. However, what I would like to highlight is yet another favour that you are doing by re-financing the relevant shares of the CDB (Caribbean Development Bank). Although the aim is commendable, that is to contribute to the economic growth and sustainable development of the countries members of the Caribbean region and to promote economic cooperation and regional integration with particular attention to the least developed states, let us not forget the state in which our country is located, which, according to everyone, owls, rosy men and wizards, is in recession and with a public debt skyrocketing. Now, I ask you: instead of allocating more than EUR 41 million to the Caribbean which, without offense to anyone, is not Mozambique, millions that we do not have, among other things, because we do not think that we are going to allocate this amount to refinance the funds for health protection or for the protection of the territory, increasingly torn by atmospheric events of not indifferent exceptionality? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the remainder of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u20	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u21	Mr President, I would just like to address my colleague who has just spoken to the effect that, precisely because of the objections you raised during your speech, I have already pointed out in my report the relationship that exists today between the entry into force of the new International Development Cooperation Act and the changes made to the existing law on cooperation. In fact, with the changes made to the current development cooperation law, Parliament, and in particular the House, has already introduced elements of transparency and clarity in relation to the actions to be taken. I therefore believe that the objection raised by the senator in this case is entirely, if I may say so, ultronea.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u22	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u23	Mr President, I welcome the reply as well as the rapporteur's report. I would like to make just one comment with regard to the debate: frankly, it seems difficult, in view of the prospect of ratifying today - I hope - Italy's participation in these two development banks, to define a decision that we must take, to be precise, since 2010, that is, since we have participated in the choice of increasing the capital of the banks themselves. I honestly feel that four years is enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u24	I would like to say that the Presidency has received, and is being distributed, the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and its amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u25	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1 and 1.3. Amendments 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 were rejected by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. Amendment 1.9 was opposed. If Senator Lucidi agreed, he could withdraw and propose a special agenda. Also on Amendment 1.10 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. In the case of Amendment No 1.12 too, I propose that a special agenda be presented instead, on which the rapporteur's opinion would be favourable. The opinion is opposed to Amendments Nos 1.14 and 1.15. The opinion was also opposed to the additional amendment 1.0.1 and proposed to withdraw it with the possible submission of an agenda, on which the opinion would be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u26	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u29	LUCIDES (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). With regard to Amendment 1.9, the rapporteur proposed that it be transformed into an agenda. Do you accept this proposal, Senator Lucidi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u31	Yes, Mr President, and I also welcome the same request for amendments 1.12 and 1.0.1, which are thus transformed into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u32	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.9 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.12 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.0.1 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. LUCIDES (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u33	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3.1. With regard to Amendment 3.2, I propose that it be withdrawn and transformed into an agenda, with the following changes: to replace the words "conditioned to respect" by the words "coordinate" with the words "coordinate." If the proposer agrees that the amendment should be turned into an agenda, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u34	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u35	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the proposed rewording of amendment 3.2 on an agenda containing the proposed amendments?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u36	I accept the rapporteur's proposal and turn Amendment 3.2 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G3.2 agenda will not be put to the vote. I call for the simultaneous vote on Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the final vote. I would remind my colleagues, out of knowledge, that a group meeting is scheduled for this evening and if we can contain ourselves in the speeches, we are doing everyone a favor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u41	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I refer to what was said earlier in the general debate and I say that our Group will abstain from voting, in line with what Mr Marcolin said in the Chamber of Deputies at its sitting on 12 June. The Group of the North League will then vote in abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u44	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise quickly to say that we will vote in favour of this measure and do so, in fact, on the basis of a fundamental political principle, namely that we mean the role of multilateralism exactly in this way: when there is a measure, which deals with an issue that is also far from us, but which tries to intervene in a geographical area of the world where it is right to do so and where it is possible to make a contribution to the economic and social development of that country and, of course, also to foresee an improvement in its living conditions, we tend to be in favour. That is also the case here. I must also say - I take a few seconds, without too much controversy - that I find a little instrumental the thesis according to which, since there is an economic crisis in our country, then we must avoid making interventions of international cooperation. If this idea passes, Italy must give up foreign policy, given the condition of economic difficulty that exists in Italy, and I do not think at all that the issue resolves, precisely by removing money from international cooperation and using them to intervene on social measures in Italy. If we are to intervene on social measures in Italy, money is taken elsewhere, certainly not from international cooperation interventions. I say this, of course, with respect to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, but to pursue this political argument seems to me to be a very dangerous element in terms of political culture. I would ask them to reconsider this point, because it introduces an idea according to which a country, whatever it may be, because it lives a condition of social and economic crisis, must renounce to intervene on foreign policy and international cooperation. This idea, in my opinion, introduces a very serious political-cultural regression, with all the most innovative and progressive foreign policy theses that have been imagined throughout all these years. So be careful to say things that can also find a little 'easy consensus, but are instead largely instrumental. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u47	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, the Senators of the New Centre Right Group will vote in favour of this measure. With regard to the appropriateness of this measure, even without the elegant irony that characterized the intervention of the representative of the Government, it was indeed four years, and even two legislatures, that the measure waited to become operative. With regard to the subject that preceded me, compatibility or incompatibility with the new rules on cooperation, it seems to me that the rapporteur, Mr Pegorer, has said everything that has to be said and thought about. Hence, with full conviction, our vote in favour so that the measure can finally become part of our system. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u50	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I have two texts before me. The first is that relating to Law No 125 of 2014, which reads in the title page: The General Declaration on International Development Cooperation states in Article 5 that the management of multilateral funds is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, the first paragraph reads: "In the context of the PSC Italy's financial participation in the activity of international bodies and in the capital of banks and multilateral development funds". The other text, on the other hand, is the measure that you will shortly approve, which contains provisions concerning participation in multilateral development banks for Latin America and the Caribbean, and provides for an intervention of about 12 million dollars for the Caribbean Development Bank and about 3 million dollars for the Inter-American Development Bank. So, we're talking about a figure of about $15 million. Someone, like Senator De Cristofaro, could say that it is little. But for us it's a lot of stuff, because if it's true that the sea is made of drops, then probably even a flood is made of drops. I'll stop here in the comparison. It is not so important to understand the meaning of these numbers, but to put them in a general context to see whether they are isolated cases or not. I would therefore like to point out that Italy's participation in the various multilateral development funds last year alone amounted to EUR 1 billion for the World Bank, EUR 156 million for the Global Environment Fund, EUR 319 million for the African Development Fund, EUR 127 million for the Asian Development Fund, EUR 58 million for the International Fund for Agricultural Development and EUR 4 million for the Caribbean Development Bank. Our intervention in non-European financial activities (which are rarely dealt with in depth) seems to us at least inappropriate, especially at a time like this. It is not clear what projects we are talking about, but we know that they are very expensive projects. While we are aiming at activities such as micro-credit for the population, millions of euros are spent here on development projects. It is also necessary to bear in mind the differences in costs between our country and the recipient countries. In the Foreign Affairs Committee we have blocked the measure for a few months and rightly so because it overlaps with the new international cooperation project. We were the only ones who asked and pointed out that a law was being amended in this text that is being repealed; that is, we are approving a text that refers to a law that will be repealed in a few months' time. With our amending work we have asked for clear transparency on reporting (which we have asked for are preventive and not blank cheques), and we have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for more detailed information on the beneficiaries of this funding. Finally, with a further amendment, we called for our participation in the Caribbean Development Bank to be withdrawn. This is one of the fundamental reasons why the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against this measure. In conclusion, I would like to respond to Senator De Cristofaro by stating that we have essentially asked for transparency and clear reporting on projects. I remember that our question about the type of projects was not answered. Therefore, we do not know at this time what projects will be financed. Certainly they are huge projects: we are talking about millions and millions of euros that, compared with the cost of living in those countries, make us understand their true scope. Often they are projects similar to our TAV, but with much less resources available. We therefore call for action to be taken in a sustainable way and for transparency criteria to be adopted, and above all logic and common sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u53	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a measure concerning our participation in the development banks of the Latin America and Caribbean area. In particular, it is a matter of signing about 9,000 actions of the Caribbean Development Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, for a total value of about 57 million dollars. It is reasonable to deal with the relations between Italy and the American subcontinent in the wider context of regional dialogue between the European Union and Latin America, and this is expressed in the constant will of our country to deepen dialogue and collaboration with the countries of the area. It is certainly also important for Italy to continue its efforts to relaunch and strengthen relations with the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, because of the traditional presence of large Italian communities of Italian origin and also of important economic interests in the area. But at this historic moment of serious economic crisis, when there are certainly no positive horizons in the immediate future, it is not a priority to increase our participation in the two aforementioned banking institutions. It is true that we must continue to pursue our objectives in the area, which include mainly the stabilisation and consolidation of the processes of democratisation and peace, support for public social policies and the fight against poverty (in particular in the least developed countries), the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime, support for regional integration and, finally, the strengthening of the cooperation of the area with the European Union. But these foreign policy strategies cannot result in such a large expenditure of resources at the expense of the necessary economic policies that we must implement in our country. To be clear, the Government recalled that this ratification has been waiting for four years, i.e. since 2010. But we must all realize that this is another era, we have told the Italians for years: we are talking about four years ago, when the spread storm had not yet arrived. From this point of view we cannot then reason in this way: to give public opinion a series of messages about spending review and the need to cut this and then, at the same time, continue in this project. I find it absurd compared to what we live every day. Just watch a news report and check what happens because of our country's hydrogeological failure. It is a situation that we are experiencing at the same time in the difficulty of our small and medium-sized enterprises finding credit; and we are not talking about small issues: if we are going to see the polemics of these months, here we are talking about 58 million. In other words, we are seeking or intending to abolish this House on a matter of savings, as the President-in-Office of the Council says, but what we are going to spend in those areas is, in fact, a year of savings achieved with the closure of the Senate. If we go further, the same goes for the matter of public funding to parties: we have talked about it, we have made just statements and also so much demagogy, but that kind of intervention was certainly little more than what we are doing now, with a logic that is not understood. From this point of view, I believe that we should have a minimum of reflection, taking into account what we say to the public, and review our attitude towards peace missions, trying to finalise them and trying to find an area where the Italian presence has its strong justification. The same goes for cooperation: we must be convinced that, if we are to ask for sacrifices, we are consistent in the policies that we implement, or it is better to let it go. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group will abstain from voting on the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u56	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we will vote with great conviction in favour of this measure. You see, Mr Minzolini, a few months ago we together voted, virtually unanimously in this House, with only a few abstentions, on the reform of development cooperation. Moreover, it is a bill widely shared, not only in its final vote but in the work that led to that final vote, in particular with the participation of very authoritative colleagues of the center-right in recent years. At the basis of that reform there is the idea that development cooperation is not an act of liberality that Italy generously addresses to the needy and that, therefore, as all acts of liberality must deal with our availability, and certainly Christmas gifts are at the last place in the priorities: if there are resources, you do, if there are no resources, patience for Christmas gifts. Development cooperation - as we have reformed and rethought it by working on it for years, in particular in the Foreign Commission of the Senate - is an essential element of our foreign policy, because, in our vision, it is also essential for the development not only of our partner countries, but of Italy. Our idea of development cooperation is, in fact, an equal partnership cooperation between countries like ours and emerging countries, in order to find a way for development together. Not surprisingly, one of the cornerstones of the reform is a new role that is recognised to the private sector in cooperation strategies. For a country like ours, therefore, participating in development cooperation initiatives is not a luxury and it is not about Christmas gifts, but it is something that has to do with our country's growth project. After all, we are a country that lives and grows only if it opens and we are an exporting country and open to the world, which has a strong trade exchange in Europe and outside of it. Being present in initiatives like this, therefore in a Bank for the Development of the Caribbean and Latin America, is then a way for us to be present in its markets, with a policy of solidarity with those countries, but it also does national interests. It is in fact our way of pursuing national interests and, for this reason, we believe that this initiative is right, so we support it. In the end, I would like to mention the closure of some embassies in the Caribbean area, to which I have heard reference. The question of the downsizing of our diplomatic and consular network through the spending review is also a very important issue. Certainly the general direction is not to reduce our presence outside Europe, but if anything, first of all, to reduce our diplomatic and consular network in Europe: today, in fact, there is an excess of presence of diplomatic and consular network in Europe, largely outdated, while we must strengthen our presence in other continents, especially in the emerging areas with which we can and must find ever closer forms of collaboration, aimed at mutual interest, that of partner countries and ours. For example, the Embassy to the Dominican Republic, which has been mentioned, is certainly a subject to be explored: in Parliament there are the instruments to call the Government to respond and to understand the reasons for this closure, as well as others, which certainly do not fall within the general lines, which are precisely those of strengthening our presence in emerging realities. This issue, which has its own dignity, has nothing to do with the theme we are talking about tonight, which is precisely the strengthening of our presence within an essential instrument for the growth of economic cooperation between our country, Europe, the West, and an area of such high development and with the potential for growth as great as Latin America. With the reform, our participation in these international banking institutions becomes an increasingly central element in our political strategy and, as such, in need and meritorious to be deepened in its lines and to be verified also in its results. Therefore, the demands of some of our colleagues, who have been duly collected by the Government, for the management of our participation, not only in terms of transparency, but also in terms of the timely verification of the results and objectives that we propose. In essence, the decision we make is part of a strategy that represents one of the fundamental pieces in order to get our country out of the crisis and resume the way of development. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u57	We shall proceed to the vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u60	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to make a brief speech, which I hope my fellow Members can listen before leaving the Chamber, since we have already finished our work, to talk about school, about what is very important and is of interest to everyone in words, but much less so in fact. In recent months we have witnessed a real promotional campaign, which someone might call propaganda, for those 136 pages of guidelines for the future of the school, elaborated by two people, Matteo Renzi and Stefania Giannini: a campaign supported not only with the collaboration (logical and natural) of MPs and PD representatives, but also with the sound of radio and television commercials, paid these by all taxpayers (maybe a little less logical). That we talk about school is a great advantage for everyone, provided that we do so by welcoming all the points of view, and not by medialy pushing the unique thought of two dark people and trying to support it with an online consultation that would seem, beyond the enthusiastic tones with which the data were announced, deserted in a fairly massive way, if it is true that there are 100,000 completed questionnaires, as was said by Minister Boschi. Perhaps, if that is true, many have taken note of the sloppyness and insufficiency of that disorganic document and have been discouraged by a questionnaire to closed answers, to forced paths. I want to remind you that the school is more than 100,000 questionnaires. The legal staff are made up of 700,000 teachers (to add a good number more) and more than 8 million students, who it is legitimate to think they are carrying several million families involved. Well, many schools and trade unions have decided rather to accept the Ministry's invitation to submit detailed documents. Now I would like to draw the attention of all of you to the answer that has been given and the reception received from professors and students who have come to the Ministry to deliver those documents, produced in a democratic confrontation, and I will do so in a smart, high tech way, with my tablet, as a natural innovator, in full compliance with the new deal of new education: low cost and high competition. Here's the reception! (Senator Mussini shows on a tablet the photo of policemen in riot control.) BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Shame! MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). This is the reception: a row of riot policemen. Now no reaction to the press, no breath from those who at least usually get indignant when they see shields, helmets and batons coming out. This is very serious. I believe that this is serious and dangerous for us, for our culture, for a culture of democracy. I denounce him here, so that at least he stays in the record, and I do so by waiting the decrees. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups and Senators Campanella and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u63	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask, as I have done several times verbally, not in this Chamber, but speaking directly to the Undersecretary, the answer to questions 4-00307, published on 5 June 2013 and presented at sitting No 34 addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, 3-00187, published on 27 June 2013, addressed to the Ministers of Education, University and Research and Economic Development. I would once again strongly urge the House to respond as immediately as possible because the questions speak of the possibility of achieving clean energy at low cost. This is a very important topic; the world is wondering how to find a solution to all the polluting problems on our planet and how to get out of a really difficult situation. We have heard the President-in-Office of the Council speak on this issue in this House. We have also heard the American President and many others about it. However, we had a chance, in the sense that it has been reported to us, and we continue to have it, thanks to Italian researchers who have developed in experimental phase a thermal generator that allows the production of clean energy at low cost. I want to translate these words for those who are listening to us and for some who are present; what does cold fusion mean? This topic has been addressed several times and I would like to point out that the conference of 3 June, co-organised with ENEA, was right, not officially, but unofficially, to our researchers. This happened not only at the conference on 3 June, but also at a conference, organized by the University of Missouri, with the partnership of ENEA, which acknowledged that the subject dealt with in the experimental phase by our researchers has serious bases and foundations. I asked the President-in-Office of the Council and the various Ministers to give an answer, specifying whether they were aware of the matter and, if so, what solution they intended to take. In the event that they were not aware of it, I asked them to check whether what they were saying actually corresponded to reality. If in fact this were to respond to reality, it would not be something useful only and exclusively to our country, but something useful to planet Earth. Mr President, I would ask you to ask for the answer to these two questions. However, let me add that many times the representatives of the Government do not respond not only to Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, but also to many senators and Members who do their work and who often do not feel gratified in the answers and not for a sufficient or insufficient answer, but because there is no answer. It's a serious matter. Thank you right now, Mr President, for what you will do to protect the work of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u64	Senator Scilipoti, it will be the Presidency's duty to ask questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u67	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were unfortunately left with the President of the Regional Council of Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol, Diego Muffrer, a sudden and painful disappearance that deprived us of a great personality, of a passionate and sincere friend who spent his life on our land and on our people, of whom he was deeply in love. In these hours its valley, the linguistic minority of Mochen and the whole Region mourn its disappearance, with sadness but also with that composure that suits our mountain people. However, some exponents of a so-called animalist party have appeared on the Net ignoble statements of true jubilation for Diego's death, representing it as a just punishment for the story of the bear Daniza. Mr President, I am well aware that all this is more affront to the categories of psychiatry than to those of politics, yet all this is unacceptable. The social hatred, which finds more and more vent and semblance of social legitimacy in some corners of the Net, crosses and offends the essential rules of civilization of our living together; here it is not the right to political criticism, which can also be harsh. For this reason, as secretary of the Trentino Tirolese Autonomous Party, of which Diego was a member, I will go to the police station to press charges against these vile people who, hiding behind a keyboard, defame the memory of a person who has dedicated a whole life to his beloved Trentino, and I want to announce it in this Chamber because every form of hatred that undermines the basic rules of our civil life cannot and must not in any way pass under silence, because there is nothing more rude and uncivilized than what we have read in these hours. There is no joy in the disappearance of anyone, much less in that of a great character who today an entire community weeps and does it because he was a man of doing, concrete, that went to the heart of the issues without too many turns of words: a real person, of those who serve precisely in this moment of difficulty. Hey, Diego, we're gonna miss you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u68	Thank you, Senator. The Presidency joins its memory and mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-353.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 19 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.47 p.m.
