ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 18 December 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u4	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u5	What are your comments on the Minutes, Senator Ciampolillo? The Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that if there are no comments, the Minutes shall be deemed to have been adopted. I would like to know what your comments are in the Minutes. The formula, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is: "No comments being made, the Minutes shall be deemed to have been approved." If you tell me what your comments are in the Minutes, I could also accept them and put them on the record without the need for a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u6	I'm asking for a quorum check, though, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u7	Then I did not explain: the verification of the quorum can be requested if there is a vote; if the vote is not necessary there is no need for the quorum. I repeat: I would like to ask what your comments are in the Minutes. About changing the minutes: do you want to add something or is something wrong?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u8	This is more of a clarification: in the vote on amendment 2.10 there was an additional vote because the senator who sits next to Senator Gasparri also voted for Senator Gasparri, who was not present at the time. I would like this to be recorded, partly because it is yet another and repeated violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the rules on voting procedures in this House. I would therefore like this to be recorded and I would ask, before the vote, for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u9	Unfortunately, your request cannot be accepted because, pursuant to Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, protests on the deliberations of the Senate are not allowed: if you speak, they are not included in the Minutes and in the minutes of the sitting. So either you have other comments to make, or I cannot accept that. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minutes are therefore deemed to be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u11	The next item is the statement by the President. On 30 December 2013, the following draft laws were presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: (a) Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 150 of 30 December 2013, extending time limits provided for in legislative provisions (b) (1214); "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 151 of 30 December 2013, with provisions of an indisputable financial nature aimed at ensuring the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures in the fields of infrastructure, transport and public works and to allow interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters" (1215).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u14	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, every cruise ship in Venice pollutes like 14,000 old cars. Sfiorano Piazza San Marco, with tanks filled with sulphur fuels; boats and vaporets are constantly threatened with being crushed. On possible solutions the cats and foxes of politics do the fake blind, but they see very well what interests them. Minister Lupi (New Right Centre), the president of the Veneto Region Zaia (Lega) and the former mayor Paolo Costa (Democratic Party) have already agreed: they want to dig a new canal from the historic center to the oil canal: four kilometers long, 140 meters wide, 10 deep: seven million cubic meters of sludge piled on the sides would cut in two lagoons. It can't be done! The laws for the protection of Venice prohibit it. To get what, then? The ships will still carry pollution in the historic center, will go to clog the heavy traffic in the Canal of the oil tankers and remain the risks of spills in the lagoon. Does Minister Lupi define it as a temporary solution in the short term; EUR 170 million for a provisional solution? In the short term? Two years were lost in chatter, three years would serve for the works; meanwhile until 2016 transits and employment are reduced. For Christmas holidays he even wanted to include the project in the objective law, to avoid environmental guarantee assessments and consultation with citizens. Because one thing is clear: if you proceed properly, such a thing cannot pass. Do you really want to secure the lagoon? Open the mind to the realization of new landings outside the lagoon, for example to the mouth of port of Lido. Ships dock outside the island of MOSE (six billion, it costs us: let's use it!). There's already a power plant there, which can power ships, so while they're shutting down the chimneys. Staying out of the MOSE, then, the lagoon stays safe and the ships can come and go whenever they want, even when there is high water. Passengers can reach it with panoramic boats like those in Paris, creating a new occupation. Minister Lupi, do you really want to be quick? These projects are based on mobile berths, do not include excavations, do not alter the environment, they cost little and are carried out in a year. The 5 Star Movement filed a motion on the subject just before Christmas. Read it, Minister, and while the Italians wait for the work that politics does not offer, stand still, rest your mind, rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u17	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting on the same subject raised by Senator Endrizzi because this is a subject that has seen the Democratic Party strongly engaged, so much so that as early as the beginning of December just past we presented to the President of the Council of Ministers a written question aimed precisely at stressing the need to intervene on the issue of the transit of large cruise ships in the lagoon of Venice. It is a problem that is very worrying in various respects, from the environmental to the architectural, cultural, urban and the protection of the lagoon and people, as well as from the occupational point of view. No answer has been given to that question, so much so that on 23 December, at the last session of the year, 30 Senators of the Democratic Party tabled a motion - which we will ask to be included urgently in the agenda of the House - which commits the President of the Council to resolve this problem and, in particular, the conflict between Minister Lupi and Minister Orlando. Minister Lupi, in fact, would like the project of excavation of a new, devastating and dangerous channel within the lagoon of Venice, the Contort channel, to be inserted in the objective law in order to speed up the times, cut the controls and procedures, in particular those of VIA and VAS. We ask that such a delicate issue be dealt with urgently but with the ordinary systems of verification of all aspects that have to do with a very delicate environment such as that of the Venice lagoon. There are operational instruments to intervene quickly and, above all, to resolve this unacceptable conflict between those who want to safeguard a very delicate environment, such as the Minister for the Environment, and those who, on the other hand, want to make fools of the rules of environmental protection and, in particular, the protection of the Venice lagoon. I would like to remind Minister Lupi that there are already rules of the State, in laws of the State that cannot be surpassed by simple administrative or governmental acts, placed to protect the lagoon environment and that prohibit the excavation of channels within the lagoon of Venice and any other similar intervention, not gradual, not reversible that would be as devastating as ever. Precisely for this reason, at the end of the year, 15 Senators of the Democratic Party, including (I should like to stress this) Senator Zanda, sent a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers and, for information, to Minister Lupi and Minister Orlando asking once again to block a dangerous intervention for the Venice lagoon. We want to safeguard the environmental, aesthetic and cultural issues and jobs. The procedures of VIA and VAS, which must be programmed quickly and urgently, allow to evaluate all these aspects and to ensure that this story does not feed criminal aspects - as happened with the events related to the work of the MOSE and the Consorzio Venezia Nuova - that have already led several people to prison and that have led more than a hundred of them to be inquisited. An inappropriate speeding-up of the time, in fact, would allow to exceed the strict rules placed to protect the environment and the legality and, therefore, to enter a grey area of the law in which the profits and the criminal profiles would risk to be prevailing, as the recent past has shown us. We therefore call for the President-in-Office of the Council to intervene directly on this matter. [[Applause from Senators Santini and Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u20	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the Government's presence to send an invitation to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The problem, in short, is as follows: there are twelve families that can no longer return to their homes. The motivation is the dispute of ownership of a road. We talk about the municipality of Trento, the famous Trento Alta and Mount Bondone, precisely of Via della Selva: there live about seventy families mostly occasionally, being a mountain area, but twelve of them are residents. The property currently belongs to the administration of the civic uses of the place, which if the dispute with the Municipality to which the property is about to pass. The municipality, not yet owner, plays on maintenance. The municipality has given residence to these people and therefore has the obligation to operate the services since they are paid. About twenty days ago, as the responsibilities were all delegated to the officials, however, it happened that the road management managers put down the following ban: In case of snow, this road cannot be crossed. The trouble is that we are between 1600 and 1800 meters and the case of snow lasts at least four to five months a year. We cannot establish that some families, who live in their own homes, cannot enter their homes for five months a year. Since the municipality of Trento is completely uninterested, I believe that the hierarchical competence of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure should take over, which could sanction the municipality of Trento, not being able to allow even one citizen of this Republic to be discriminated against only for having chosen to establish his residence in an area undoubtedly more demanding than the valley floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u23	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to call for the answer to the question 2-00106, which I presented only on 23 December, concerning the strategies developed by the UNAR (National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office) in which, addressing all public offices, and in particular schools, there is a sort of indoctrination, particularly of students, primary school pupils and even children, in the direction of gender ideology which, I stress, is an ideology and certainly not a science. I would not urge the answer at such a distance a few days if even before I deposited this interrogation another document, very similar, called: "Linee guida per un'informazione respectosa delle persone LGBT" had not emerged, which still more in depth claims that all the information organs, all public bodies and even the media and ecclesiastical institutions - and I stress these last - are uniform to the ideology of those who have elaborated this document, namely the ideology gender, a very complex ideology and with roots in America of feminist extremism. It is an ideology that has full legitimacy, but hence to make it a state ideology, to be imposed on institutions and families (who would thus see themselves deprived of their right to educate the offspring, guaranteed by our Constitution and the Charters of International Rights), the difference is considerable. I would therefore ask that the President of the Council of Ministers, or person delegated by him, should come to the attention of the Department for Equal Opportunities which issued these documents. In fact, I would not like other documents to come out aimed at this ideological indoctrination perpetrated to the detriment of all citizens and in particular of the most defenceless, namely children.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u26	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor to remind the House of a great journalist and conductor who disappeared at the gates of this new year: Puccio Corona. Puccio left a big gap. It is important to remember a person who has made his profession a reason for life, devoting himself completely to information. He inherited his passion from his father, head of the newspaper "La Sicilia" (Sicilia), where Puccio Corona began his career as a Sunday reporter. After a few years he became a professional journalist, dealing with news and international politics. Later, he began to collaborate with the RAI of Catania, curing the sport, but also the black and white chronicle. In 1985, called to Rome by TG1, he worked a year at the news editorial staff, until, at the end of 1986, he moved to the new editorial staff of "Unomattina" (Unomattina), which was born that year, and invented the formula of the new news of the morning band, still in force. Within three years, he was promoted twice as chief of service and then deputy editor-in-chief. In 1989, the director of TG1 Nuccio Fava proposed to him to conduct "Unomattina" as a couple with Azzariti. He did it for four years, until 1994. In July of that year he was the creator and conductor of a new transmission on the sea, Blue Line. Puccio has introduced us, with his wonderful descriptions, the sea and its wonders. The whole ideation of the program has been more and more successful and has reached, within a couple of years, important ratings. He remained at Blue Line until 1998; then resigned and returned to TG1 as a special envoy. He followed the war in Kosovo and dealt with investigations and reports on the environment (Black Sea). Sent for the earthquake in Turkey, for the shipwreck of a ferry in Greece and for many other events of national and international news, Puccio has always carried out his work with professionalism, passion and humanity. In the meantime, he has been a reporter of important events broadcast by RAI1 and has broadcast in a truly sublime way the historic regatta of Venice, a regatta of the Maritime Republics. In 2002 he led again "Unomattina" and then moved to the conduction of TG1, which interrupted in March 2005. He has been an important personality for us citizens of the Eagle. Puccio was a great man, who silently and without so many clamors loved the Eagle and the eagle, gave voice to those who had no voice, came to penetrate what was really happening in 2009, after the earthquake, and became spokesperson for us all. The whole of Italy lost yesterday a personality of great importance, which no one will ever forget. I would ask the Presidency, please, to have the House observe a minute's silence in its memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u27	On my personal behalf, because I met Puccio Corona, and on behalf of the Senate, which I represent, I associate myself with the words of mourning and the memory of Puccio Corona. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u28	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-159.ana.u29	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 January, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.30 a.m.
