ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u4	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in relation to the Minutes, I would like to point out that I have asked for corrections to the shorthand report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u7	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 23 and 24 October 2014 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council to be held in Brussels tomorrow is the last European Council led by President Van Rompuy after five years of leadership of this institution and the last one to be attended by President Barroso as President of the Commission after ten years. It is, therefore, the last European Council of a long season of continental institutions and I believe that this is a very important step. The new institutions have finally been designated. The doubts about the possibility for the new Commission to formally take office on 1 November seem to be resolved, because in these hours the final and decisive vote on the Commission is expected. We can say that the concern that existed about the transfer of deliveries seems to be finally escaped and therefore Europe now turns page in the leadership of its institutions. This does not mean that the agenda is not demanding and important, but it is certainly fair to say, with great frankness, that the main issues which are the subject of discussion between the European partners and which are, in some way, urged, not to say stressed, by the Italian Presidency in the first three months of the six-month period, are matters which will be fully fulfilled with the new Commission. I'm just making a reference. The great victory of these months has been having proposed (and in some cases, I dare say, imposed) an investment plan worth EUR 300 billion, the first sign of the attention of our European institutional reality, not only to rigour and austerity, but also to growth and investment. This project lies in the Juncker Presidency and not in the Barroso Presidency. It is therefore clear that we are in a transitional phase. An authoritative Italian author would have nailed that we are in a phase of transition, as always, words and music by Ennio Flaiano. It is true, however, and it is objective that this European Council is the last of the previous season and therefore, as such, will have a load of expectations that will remain, in the political and institutional debate, at least until the next meeting in December. This does not mean that there are no important points of discussion, the first of which is certainly the 2030 climate-energy package. It is the main topic on the agenda and I would just like to stress that what concerns our country, that is the line that we propose to Parliament to share, is the line of the maximum ambitions on the issue of energy and sustainability. In my view, there will be opposition within the Council. Some countries insist on being particularly cautious (we use euphemism) and attentive to the needs of those countries that, more than others, suffer from the excessive role of coal and, more generally, old technologies in the management of industrial processes. However, we, with a very strong eye on the sustainability issues of our companies, think that it is never as important at this time to affirm sustainability and the environment as a choice of competitiveness of the economic system and possible creation of new jobs. I therefore propose and propose to Parliament that we have as much ambition as possible on the climate-energy package for 2030 and an ambitious and coherent European position also in view of the next two appointments, which will be that of Lima in December 2014, with the XX Conference of the Contracting Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the central and crucial one of Paris in December 2015, to which Italy will be able to approach not only with its own political assessments, but also with the cultural debate that - I am sure - will arise from the appointment of the Expo in Milan from 1 May to 31 October 2015. We could therefore sum up the first issue that was the subject of tomorrow's debate in Brussels by defining it as a gigantic European investment in green jobs, i.e. sustainable work, the creation of jobs linked to green growth and, more generally, a balance of sustainability that is in line, moreover, with what we encouraged at informal meetings held in Milan by the Environment Ministers (in July) and Energy Ministers (in October). This is linked to everything that is relevant to the issues of energy efficiency, in which we have given our willingness to consider as an indicative target at Community level for renewables at least 30% of the needs on an annual basis and we have agreed to the increase to 27% of the compulsory quota, but we support - and I end on this first point - that, alongside the institutional and political assessment at European level, there is a need for an industrial policy bet linked to it. We have long encouraged renewables, but we have probably missed the opportunity - I am referring to the decade just passed - to create an industrial supply chain or, in any case, to facilitate and enhance it. Similarly, when we choose to intervene on energy efficiency, we are not simply indicating a higher cost in the short term, but a method and style that must start first of all from public buildings and building criteria, which must be included in the urban and building regulations of the structures of all the municipalities of Italy. We must therefore make the Brussels meeting an opportunity for industrial and urban policy and cultural investment in our country. I find that my presentation would be incomplete if I did not make a brief reference to the development strategy adopted by Italy in the first few months of the new Government's work on energy policy. We know that this issue is linked to major international geopolitical issues: no one can question the fact that much of the concern about international geopolitical issues comes to the belly of public opinion mediated by attitudes of concern, sometimes of alarm or terror, about the energy needs needed by our or other countries and, more generally, about the capacity on the part of countries that today live in conflict situations to offer, even at times of relative international tension, the gas and energy necessary for heating and daily functions. Let me say that this vision is both shortsighted and aseptic, because we need something more. For this reason, in recent months, Italy has made an assessment in which we have invited to enter the related societies, the cultural and political world and also - why not - the world of enterprise. We believe that the future of the energy axis cannot only be East-West - and I will then spend a few words on international tensions - but must logically be inspired by criteria of diversification also in the North-South direction. Here is a part of our bet on economic and energy investments in Africa. Here is a part of our bet, in the first few months of government, on trying to make, especially Africa, a place of development and not just a place where we take on the values of cooperation, which we also support and make our own. That is why we have signed important agreements, from Mozambique to Congo; that is why we look carefully at what can happen in many countries, from Angola to Egypt, which offer important opportunities for our country. Even if I keep the subject in the background - but it will be interesting to be able to take it back because it does not end tomorrow morning - I included it in the first part of my speech because there is a delicate issue, which we cannot accept further, which concerns Europe's lack of credibility when it addresses these issues and fails to solve the problems of interconnections. I try to explain myself in a very synthetic way. If we reason for a strategy of North-South energy development, with an investment in Africa as a producing country, but then we do not realize the interconnections, the pipeline between France and Spain, blocked by years of continental short-sightedness, we will never be able, in some respects, to transport the energy resources that we may acquire in Africa and, at the same time, we will never be credible in the eyes of European citizens. Indeed, that principle of the European Union of resources is paradoxically blocked by bureaucratic resistance or, worse still, by political laziness. That is why in tomorrow's speech, with the strong support of Parliament, Italy will have to make its voice heard about the need to act quickly on the interconnections that must be established, particularly between France and Spain. Basically, Europe is not talking within itself today; it is unable to connect what it already has. I said that the energy issue, which represents one of the great cultural, economic, political and international challenges, runs the risk of being seen superficially, if not included in a geopolitical dynamic. Tomorrow, the Brussels meeting will not touch on international policy issues, or at least it will not do so in its official seat, which is the Council and its elaborations. However, I believe it is right and respectful of the work of the Parliament and the Senate of the Republic to point out that, compared to the last European Council, therefore, our last debate preceding the appointment of HIPER (High power laser energy research facility) and Brussels in June 2014, significant progress has been made in some areas while, at the same time, new and more complicated international tensions are also taking place, and I would say above all, outside the European borders, but at the heart of our continent's experience. I am referring essentially to the significant progress made between Russia and Ukraine, which resulted in a dual commitment in Minsk on 5 and 19 September, but which found new life in the Milan talks. The spirit of Milan, I like to define it this way, allowed three meetings between Putin and Poroshenko: the first, in the format imagined by the Italian Presidency with the G7 countries and the European institutions; the second, around lunchtime, in the Normandy format, that is France and Germany plus two countries, Ukraine and Russia (format that refers to the June appointments on the occasion of the celebrations in Normandy) and the third, directed, between President Putin and President Poroshenko. I like to call it the spirit of Milan, a busy city, to which I would like to say my thanks in the institutional seat for having organized an appointment that has not been seen in Italy for many years, given the high number of Heads of State and Government, and for having done so not only with extraordinary quality of hospitality, but also with an organizational capacity - let me say it with the pride of Italian - that has positively impressed all participants at this international summit. It was an element for which we must thank the Forces of Order, the Prefect, the Quaestors, but also the citizens and the citizens of Milan who showed their usual capacity for collaboration. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, AUT (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups]] Well, the spirit of Milan has reopened a debate that seemed to be dormant, and it is obvious that all the spotlight today is focused on the vote in Ukraine next week. I believe I can repeat here what we have already said in all the fora: Italy is convinced of the need to respect the unity, integrity, freedom of the Ukrainian people; Italy is convinced that it is necessary to put an end to the tensions and escalation that have occurred in the previous months; at the same time, Italy believes that a process of recovery of Russia in the role of important point of reference of the international community is today a definitely fundamental operation for Russia and the Ukrainian people, but it is also an absolute priority for Europe and for the international community both for the new scenarios of conflict present, and because a strong Europe is built in respect and dialogue, obviously asking for equal respect and dialogue to its neighbour at home (and of course, by definition, the largest and most important neighbour is definitely the Russian people). That was the spirit of Milan and I believe it has produced positive results. We will see whether, in the coming weeks, this laboriously restarted path will enable Russia to regain its role in the international dimension and, at the same time, allow Europe's delicate eastern border to return to a season of peace and respect. We move on to the Russian, Ukrainian and, more generally, geopolitical issues of the eastern border of Europe with the spirit of those who believe in dialogue and the role of politics, not for an energy or economic anxiety. We do not underestimate the economic concerns; none of us underestimates any economic concerns, but Russia's role and importance does not simply concern the Italian companies that have to export. The first concern is the maintenance of an international geopolitical order which finds, compared with last June, a clear situation of greater concern in the area of Syria and Iraq. Today we have a situation of deep tension, which has had a worrying escalation in recent months. I believe that the principle that no one has the right to inflict on innocent peoples the suffering of fear and terror must be strongly reaffirmed, which - as Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of the United Arab Emirates, told me yesterday - occurs after a religion has been taken hostage, an expression that I find particularly significant, the daughter of an important leadership, that of Sheikh Mohammed, and a vision ability that is particularly relevant to us in the dimension of a friendly and allied country. Today the Syrian and Iraqi border divides an idea of respect, dignity and values that constitute the identity of a people; it does not divide two religions. We have all said this very well and with great determination at the UN General Assembly. That is not a war against Islam, it is not a war of religion, and it is no coincidence that, today, in the front row in the intervention there are the countries of the area, the countries that share the same religion but that they cannot accept, according to the words of Sheikh Mohammed, that this religion is taken hostage. It's a lot more than that. It is an intervention that wants to undermine the dignity of women and men. I say first of all to the woman not for an act of gallantry, but because what has happened in these months in those areas compared to girls, young girls and women shouts scandal, and I do not say shout revenge, but surely arouses the pain of an international community that cannot ignore anything. [[Applause from the groups PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PI and the senators Esposito Giuseppe and Bonfrisco]] What has happened and which has led this Parliament to make significant and relevant decisions in the Committees is the emblem of the desire of the international community not to assist silently and complicity in what is happening in Syria and Iraq. Our speech has been shared by the parliamentary committees and it is an intervention that will not end shortly, because all the operators in the region are convinced that it is - alas - a long journey, which must be linked to an overall vision in the area that cannot but touch - and I do so only in passing because I believe it is a necessary act compared to Parliament, even if the subject is not present in the provisional draft conclusions of the European Council - the great Libyan issue and how the international community today tackles tensions also in this important state. I do not open up any further elements of reflection on this. I say that, of course, all this is linked to the concern for uncontrolled immigration in Italy and it would be interesting to know the positions of the parliamentary groups, not only of those who have always had very explicit positions in one direction or another, but also of those groups which are deeply divided within them on these issues. It would be interesting to discuss and dialogue on how to manage to keep together the necessary need for control and security with respect for pain, especially refugees and war refugees, while at the same time enhancing the work carried out by the Interior Minister Alfano and his Ministry in these months and weeks, with the advent, starting from 1 November, of Operation Tritone, which will finally see the other European countries involved and engaged in the operation of patrol and control of the Mediterranean area. I will stop here on international issues for the simple reason that, even if they are in the background, they are issues that will not be touched upon by the debate on Thursday and Friday, while I imagine they will be in December. However, I would like to point out that the Italian Presidency has worked and is working very hard in this direction and, in the coming weeks, I am counting on continuing unceasing work both in Russia and Ukraine, in the philosophy, logic and spirit of Milan, and in the Mediterranean area, as started on the first day of our work, so that we can continue to play a leading role in Italy and Europe and in a more incisive and effective European foreign policy. The Brussels Summit will address the Ebola issue. This is an issue that Parliament has already discussed and we will try to identify a single European leader. You know of the commitments of the Italian Government and also of the initiatives that we have taken, such as the financing of 50 million euros of the international community, the willingness to work with the British in Sierra Leone, the enhancement of Spallanzani and, more generally, a deep involvement with all international subjects to prevent this terrible epidemic within our continent. Finally, economic issues remain in the background. The summit of the Eurogroup, i.e. the countries that have the euro as their currency, will take place on Friday morning, and I would end on that. It is the classic subject that needs to have the new institutions fully operational and at work. I have just referred to EUR 300 billion for investment, but I could say that the climate of the international economic community is changing rapidly, even though we can discuss speed. The G20 Summit in Brisbane puts the word "growth" at the centre. On 15 and 16 November, in Australia, growth will be the priority. I have spoken with my Australian Prime Minister, who stressed that his goal is to get out of the G20 meeting with some concrete, precise and timely objectives to which he calls the leading countries of the world economy. The International Monetary Fund, therefore not a dangerous assembly of left-wing proletarians to affirm the values of the socialist revolution, has highlighted, over the last few weeks, how the focus on growth is absolutely priority. Compared to the last European Council, where for the first time the word "growth" has returned to the final discussion, after a heated debate, especially with the Dutch and other theoretical countries of rigour and austerity, I find that a discussion on how Europe, the Eurozone above all, wants to move out of the narrow margins of the mere rigor to set up a strategy that sees the European countries today largely lacking. If you look at the numbers of how much the world economy grows, you see that there is not only an Italian problem, which is undeniable, but there is a problem of the whole euro area, which is in fact the Cinderella of world development. Well, on this point I insist today in an attempt to stimulate the Italian community, public opinion, editorialists, the world of representative social actors to make a qualitative leap in the European debate. We live, allow me to say it with a frankness that will probably appear excessive, a sort of cultural subalternity: just a half declaration by the spokesman of the assistant of the Undersecretary of the Commission to have the headlines in the newspapers: • Europe warns, • Europe intimates • • Europe threatens • • Europe threatens • Europe threatens • Europe warns • Europe threatens • Europe threatens • Europe threatens • Europe threatens • Europe threatens • [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT) and PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups.]] It is an attitude that we facilitate and value, because we are used to considering Europe as something else from us, ignoring a long tradition that obviously leads back to the Treaty of Rome the identity card and the act of birth of this community, but also at the same time defining everything that is a European institution as something else from us. I say this without any controversy, simply to make a point of the road, we would have said it in other language, between us. There is an attitude whereby what comes from the European institutions is in itself a hostile and obstructive element compared to the Italian perspectives. The discussion of these hours, in which, in the face of statements that are always made with respect to the law of stability, already the very fact that Europe's letter has arrived, brings to mind who knows what procedures, messages or threats. It is natural that in the European institutions Italy must be more and better, with greater awareness and conviction, and it is equally natural that Italy, when it brings its own voice within these institutions, is capable of presenting itself by virtue not of an external diktat, but of a deep internal conviction, that is, capable of having finally carried out what it has promised for years. That's why the operation holds two different aspects together. On the one hand, there are the reforms that we are doing and which are objectively structural. They may or may not, I do not go into the matter now; I simply say that there is no one in the world who cannot see that a country that, within a few months, is putting its hands on numerous articles of the Constitutional Charter, on the system of election of Members of Parliament, on the system of recruitment and functioning of the labour market, on a profound reinterpretation of the criteria of public administration, on the rules of the game on civil justice and that has launched a campaign of listening on the school, while the Government works on the implementing decrees of the fiscal delegation, is a country that is doing - for good or evil: everyone will have their own assessments - an extraordinary process of structural reforms. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Faced with this point, which is evident in the eyes of all - that is, that Italy has stopped theorizing structural reforms and is doing them, even with a heated parliamentary debate and in the country - in the face of this attitude, the awareness of Italian representatives in Europe must be much stronger and stronger about the non-alterity of Europe than we do. We give Europe much more than Europe gives us: every year we give EUR 20 billion to the European budget and spend just over half of it, partly because of our responsibilities and partly because of the criteria and rules of the game. We are a great country, which gives the basket of the European Community and which at the same time should recover that sort of conviction, and in my opinion also of authority, in going to Europe no longer with the attitude of those who think they are going to a place other than themselves, but with the conviction that when each of us - in the different roles he can play - goes within the European institutions, he is at home. That is, in conclusion, the point that I believe we must have with great conviction and determination. Europe is changing, for objective reasons. After five years the institutions are renewed, the Commission changes the President even after ten years, because the current one has carried out two mandates: we must take this opportunity, to realize that when we go to the European Councils, when we organize the European summits of Ministers, when the delegations of Members meet, we are not the special observers, who have the image of Europe as a severe and archaic teacher, who tells us what to do, but we are a country that, having to carry out a profound process of reflection on itself, is doing so regardless of what Europe thinks, because we have decided. I want to say this in the Senate: we are doing it, because you have decided it, even at the cost of the tensions that we all remember, even facing moments of confrontation and tension, verbal and not only verbal. Right here I want to say that, because we are doing our part - because it is right to do it for our children, and not for our fellow Presidents of the Council, Prime Ministers and Presidents of the Republic of other countries - just because we are doing all this, I would like the new European institutions to see, regardless of the names that represent Italy, a little more courage and pride of our belonging to this community. I conclude by thinking of that extraordinary letter that attorney Ambrosoli wrote to his wife, at a very particular moment in his life, a few years before he tragically interrupted his existence. Speaking of Homeland - and we know that for its cultural formation, that expression is full of meaning and full of value; it is for everyone, of course, but in the case of lawyer Ambrosoli it had a value perhaps greater or in any case denser of meaning - he adds, after a comma: "you call yourself Italy or you call yourself Europe". I find these two definitions no longer contradictory. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups]] I, who feel proudly belonging to my city and who am happy to represent Italy, believe that we must stop seeing something different from us in Europe because, if it is true that we need Europe, I guarantee you, participating in the European Councils, that Europe needs Italy very much. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI groups and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u9	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. As previously communicated to the Groups, the time limits for discussion and explanations of vote were allocated to allow the debate and voting to be concluded by the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Renzi, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the summit of 23 and 24 October is an opportunity to assert some of the reasons for our country's European partners, particularly in the climate and energy areas to which I refer. All too often, we suffer from the European choices which are mainly driven by the interests of Northern Europe. We can lead the new solutions bearing in mind that the climate strategy, after the summit, will propose a horizon to 2030: ten years more and with a new framework of European rules compared to the previous objective. I would like to comment briefly on three points. The first is energy efficiency. The latest available data tell us that Italy's greenhouse gas emission reductions have been greater than those required by the provisional target, a combined effect of both the efforts made and the economic crisis. The target now moves towards a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. In order to support concretely the great design of energy efficiency of our country (buildings, productive activities, transport, and so on) it is necessary to overcome, among other things, the obstacle represented by the financial needs of the initiatives, for example promoting rotating funds fed in part by the same European funds and supporting for a part of the productive activities the ETS emission trading systems. The energy efficiency of structures and infrastructure, if properly planned and supported, can represent a great opportunity for growth by closely linking with the economic issue that the summit will address. The second point is renewable sources. The new EU target of at least 27%, set for the share of renewable energy consumed in the European Union in 2030, is within our reach. Given the flexibility provided by the climate-energy package on the energy mix of each Member State, we suggest monitoring the progression of other EU countries, so as to verify the possibility for our country to become an exporter of traditional renewable energy. However, a barrier must be overcome: today the support for electric renewables is practically exhausted, urgent decision to make consistent the commitments of the climate-energy package with the Italian ability to support the construction of new plants, in particular non-voltaic. Supporting also means simplifying. I am bearing an emblematic example of the brake that the European Union sometimes represents. The impasse in which we find ourselves in relation to the production of biomethane must be resolved. On this it is necessary to urge the enactment of the specific European norms in order to give the Authority for the electricity and gas to issue the provisions demanded from the law of competitiveness within the month of October and to allow the technical applications of which the Italian industry has wide availability. The third point is the integration of networks and energy supply. We need to work on better interconnections between the Member States and the European gas and electricity networks. This must remain a priority, because it places our country as a real hub between North and South, East and West, having strategic function of diversification, and creates the conditions for the creation of the single market of electricity with expected benefits on our bills or at least with an alignment with other countries. A large country requires, as a prerequisite for development, large and efficient energy interconnection infrastructures with other States, on condition that they are carried out with the best practices of good technique and with the necessary environmental attention. In this respect, in the field of managing the large existing connections, it is essential to bring relations with the largest gas supplier in Europe back to normal exchange: the Russian Federation, from which we import more than 30% of the natural gas needs. The figure makes tangible the risky consequences that would arise if Russia intervened to reduce or interrupt supplies. That is why Europe must make serious and thoughtful commitments in this respect. Serious commitments which, among other things, should overcome a great contradiction: one verse is reiterated, in the meetings of the European summits, the substantial need to diversify the sources of energy supply, for the other, perhaps in the margins of the same summits, is opposed to the realization of the South Stream corridor, which instead represents an opportunity for the safe food of our country and Europe. At the same time - and I am beginning to conclude - it is necessary to support the implementation of the TAP pipeline and to clarify the objectives of the action of research and sustainable extraction of hydrocarbons, in total harmony with the European Union guidelines for the diversification of sources and the use of indigenous resources. These are also, Mr Renzi, elements that we ask you to represent at European level. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u11	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for sharing key issues in this House today to be submitted to the European Council on 24 October, to which, moreover, another important event will follow: the European assessment of the law of stability. A sharing of policy lines that will mark the evolution of the process of European integration and will measure the ability of our Government to influence and give impetus to common policies in order to re-orient the future of a Union that today requires a greater effort of convergence on the part of each individual Member State and each individual European institution. It is a European Council which takes place at a significant time, as you have pointed out, in the passage of functions between the new Commission and the previous one, led by Barroso. Almost a passage of the witness that, starting from the awareness of permanent criticalities, redefines the instruments of fight against the serious crisis of these five years and redefines new and incisive strategic priorities to be pursued. A new European deal, the consolidation of economic and monetary union, but also a new deal that does not add choices of budgetary austerity to Europe's political and institutional task of supporting economic and social growth and improving the living conditions of its citizens. In short, a proposal for a revision of the European 2020 Strategy itself, remodulating objectives without sacrificing the ambition to continue to fight poverty, for youth employment, for a greener economy, for better inclusion and social cohesion. The method will have to be multilevel governance, where everyone is called to play their part: the European Commission with adequate growth policies and adequate appropriations (and the EUR 300 billion in three years is a first step); the European Central Bank with greater liquidity for businesses (and the EUR 27 billion for Italy is a help that we hope will come concretely to support credit to the real economy); Italy and the regions, also in the need to redirect the use of the new programming cycle of the 2014-2020 Structural Funds, so that it will be more incisive, with more concentrated objectives and integrated and coherent projects also compared to the country-specific recommendations made by the Commission and the Council. These actions serve to achieve those structural reforms necessary to make the system more competitive, and to address the territorial and macroeconomic imbalances that continue to characterize our country Italy. The crisis has radically affected national budgets, investment has decreased by 20% in real terms and the path of convergence of gross domestic product and employment rates between Member States has been interrupted. Mere austerity has not been able to assess in advance the consequences and the impact that would have on social factors, such as unemployment and impoverishment, strategic objectives to be healed that become political debts in Europe today. There are global challenges that do not know borders or customs that can act as banks, whether they are new pandemics, such as Ebola, or new phenomena of international terrorism. We are faced with an evolving and increasingly complex geopolitics, from the situation in Ukraine - and in Milan I believe that a good result has been achieved in relations with Russia and in defining the new role that Russia can play in the international context - to the Middle East, to the millions of refugees fleeing persecution, from Syria to Libya, to the South Sahara area. It is a humanity waiting for the future, which has often seen in the Mediterranean the way of salvation towards a Europe of hope, a Europe that we hope with Operation Triton has finally come up with an adequate response. There is no overall choice that does not require local, European action to build a common foreign and defence policy and an energy policy within new axes of North-South geopolitics - as you mentioned - and with its infrastructure networks. The European Council will, in particular, be called upon to outline a new framework for policies to reduce emissions, increase energy efficiency and use of renewable sources for 2030. The awareness that must accompany us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that the environmental challenges (climate and energy), which often turn into hydrogeological disasters in Italy, with serious budgets in terms of human lives and economic damage, are challenges of strong urban connotation. These problems occur mainly in cities and around them, and precisely in cities they can find a solution. 72 percent of Europe's population lives in cities and 67 percent of Europe's domestic product is produced in metropolitan regions, with relative consumption of soil and natural resources. The experience of the European Pact of Mayors for the Environment has taught us this: it has taught us the importance and role of cities in achieving the results in this area. That is why we do not believe that we can postpone the European debate on the definition of a genuine urban agenda for the Union, for an urban development that is finally a synthesis of fragmented sectoral policies. We therefore give you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a full mandate to reach an agreement at the Council on 24 October which sets out new and courageously revised environmental objectives for energy saving and the use of renewable energy, but also for new green industrial policies. We do not want to demand that, with his mandate as President of the European Semester, Europe be asked to replace numerical parameters with the evaluation of the new BES parameter, which measures the eco-sustainable economic and social well-being of our Europe. But we give you full mandate for the demands for flexibility margins in relation to the constraints of macroeconomic and budgetary rebalancing, in order to preserve in Europe the social model that characterized the development on our continent and the process of European integration; convergence path that still sees the project of the Ventotene Manifesto - which you also referred to - of the United States of Europe. The last meeting of the Council chaired by Mr Van Rompuy will be held in Brussels on 24 October, prior to the inauguration of the newly elected President, Mr Donald Tusk. A new page - we said - a new European deal, which we also wish the new Commission, of democratic legitimacy from the bottom up that sees in strengthening the political dialogue with national parliaments an indispensable pillar. As a must - and we thank you for that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - it seems to us that the dialogue on the construction of our shared participation in the European Union by this debate on the Government-Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u13	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u14	Mr President, your speech has been delicate, moderate and unaggressive even in relation to the Senate's work, unlike other occasions when it has been much harder and more inspiring. However, I would like to highlight some inconsistencies and invite you to be consequent in Europe, but mainly in Italy. You spoke about energy issues, highlighting a different need of the North and the South, and looking beyond, reflecting on our intervention in Africa. But let us defend the ENI seriously - I acknowledge that I have defended Finmeccanica - because in this country there is often the will to destroy what we have managed to accomplish, the great achievements. But it's all true: we worry about energy and are almost totally dependent on it. In fact, Italian schizophrenia has led us to over-incentivise renewable energy in the past years, and then to move, starting with the Letta Government, to their total demolition, completely wrong, being one of those sectors that still carried investments for several tens of billions and employment. Today you take up your speech, because the real priority is to reduce the need to supply us abroad. We are below the European standards, we could have European sanctions at any moment, which we should avoid. I therefore call on you to make renewable energy more attractive and necessary in general. This is a very strange country and you know it better than I do. We want energy, we want employment. Many years ago we said no to nuclear (well come, for the love of God), but let's say no to everything: let's say no to wind, let's say no to TAV, let's say no to TAP. Let's say no to everything. It is up to the government to say exactly what the choice is, which is this, and there is little to discuss. We have problems: you spoke about Libya and Egypt. However, let us examine the mistakes we have made and which we continue to make. In Libya, President, we're running away. We're still here with our consulate, but we're running away from everything else. He then talked about Russia. Russia is replacing us in Libya, because Europe is totally blind, it is not present - and a convinced Europeanist is speaking to it - and it has forced us, together with the United States, to make a completely wrong military intervention years ago, inspired by the will and Western mentality to impose on the Middle Eastern countries culture and democracy unknown to them. This was an act of arrogance. In Libya we must be present. We must defend the interests of Europe, if you will allow me, however, we must defend Italian interests both for what comes from Libya mainly in Sicily, and then throughout Italy, with relative problems, indisputable, and because historically this belongs to us. On the contrary, we are disappearing completely, we are not present at all. We need to be there: we need a more incisive policy than Italy and Europe. You often appeal to Europe, to Europe which must be the actress of all actions. You see, President, in the meantime that Europe is waiting to become one, countries like Germany, France and England, when they have to move for their own, personal, and certainly legitimate interests, they move beyond Europe. Your speech will be fine when Europe is a genuine political and economic entity. Mr President, it is difficult and perhaps useless to speak here, if anyone is to listen, he is engaged in other speeches. Listening to a single senator is rightly of no importance. Therefore, dear President Gasparri, I conclude my speech, because we are not heard by anyone, and mainly by those who have to listen to us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u16	President, do you think you're in the broadcast of Barbara D'Urso or the Senate of the Republic? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I ask you, because you have come here, you have spoken for 40 minutes... [[Comments from the PD Group]] Shut up. He spoke for forty minutes: for 3 minutes of energy and for 37 minutes of premature supercazzola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u17	Senator Martelli, I invite you to use proper language in this House. Speak on your thesis without making any insults.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u18	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] MARTELLI (M5S). It's not a bad word. Let me talk. Do you mind if I move on? [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u19	Colleagues, I invite you to calm, you look for this otherwise.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u20	MARTELLI (M5S). You have presented yourself here and you have even spoken to us about the welcome you had in Milan. I was expecting him to describe the menu for a moment, because he couldn't talk about anything else. The theme was energy and climate and you wasted 37 minutes out of 40 talking generically about Libya, Mozambique, Angola. I wonder if you know where these countries are. And he named Russia: he said that we must recover Russia to its dimension in the international context, adding that we do not do it for economic reasons. Instead, we do it exactly for economic reasons. We do this because Mr Putin cares about the orphans with the issue of gas, thanks to all the contracts that ENI has concluded with Gazprom, and we are insanely afraid that gas supplies will be cut off from us. That's the truth, but she didn't say it! You also said that you are pressing for Italy to set a binding target of 27% on renewable energy. But do you know we're already at 27%? What kind of promise is to commit to 27 percent? It is easy to commit to something that has already been done. Something almost right, though, maybe he said it. He talked about the gas interconnections with France (although the electricity interconnections are even more important). This testifies that the TAP that you so badly want should not be done, because once the gas interconnections with the regasifiers of Spain and Portugal were realized there would be no need for the TAP pipeline. But obviously you have to do your little friends a favor and so you have to do it. That's the truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You continue to say that it is not true that Europe lays down rules for us, but every time it tells us that Europe tells That would be our ability to impose on us in Europe. France, on the other hand, which has more balls than us has not opened up to the electricity market. The Electricité de France refused to give up power, partly because it has a strategic park of nuclear power plants. If France did and nobody told him anything, why didn't we? We are always ready to say yes when others ask us, and we do the wonderful in the Homeland denying that we are doing so. She's very good: in Italy she goes around television and puts her face on it. Bravo! The Italians instead put the other part of the body, the B-side (I use this term so no one can recover me for what I am saying). Nothing said about climate change. Do you know that the planet's temperature is above its normal temperature of 30 cents? Don't tell me it's a little, because it's three percent of the earth's temperature. When a person has 37.8 of fever, he is very sick, so don't tell me that 30 cents of grade are few. Nevertheless, the sun, according to cyclical analyses, is in a phase of a minimum depth of 100 years (Gleissberg's minimum, for those who want to get a minimum of culture). You didn't say anything about that. There are studies that say that all these climate changes will cause 2 percent of the world's GDP damage every year: $600 billion thrown into the toilet and pulled water to get back to the same point each time. [[Senator Gaetti's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). Then you say we don't have any proposals. Listen up! MARTELLI (M5S). I haven't heard a word about climate and energy. But I've heard about photovoltaic cuts and the destruction of renewable energies. He said we're looking at industrial policies, but he didn't say anything about it. He said we're focusing on energy policies, but then he shut up. However, he has tried to say that there is an Ebola problem in Africa. It's got a lot to do with the weather! For the truth and incredibly there might even be a relationship, because climate change and tropicalization determine the selection of new species, both micro and macro, that determine the variation of the ecosystem. I know you don't care! You're blissful in your ignorance, and I'm glad. But I hope the people who applauded him felt embarrassed, like us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm embarrassed for an empty 40-minute speech. Go read the shorthand report, go look at what he said. I appeal to all of you who have been here to humiliate you and also to you above [[With a nod it indicates the forums assigned to the journalists]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u21	You only have one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u22	MARTELLI (M5S). ...that you should do this service. You should tell her what's going on, and she, President, should let people talk instead of trying to break the speech and not make her talk, because that's not her role! I have five minutes and I have the right to speak for five minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I just reminded her she's got a minute. You use it to illustrate his themes. [[Senator Catalogo's comments at the President's address.]] MARTELLI (M5S). If I had to do as President Renzi I would have to speak to... whatever it is because this was the theme: 40 minutes to... whatever it is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When you are President of the Council... CIOFFI (M5S). Soon! [[Comments of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u23	Excuse me. Continue your intervention. We're gonna get you this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u24	MARTELLI (M5S). Do we want to set reasonable targets? Do we want to talk about reasonable and binding targets? Do we want to propose to Europe renewable energy objectives that make sense? There are in our motion for a resolution. There is a target set at 2030 and one at 2050, and they are both attainable. Achieving the 100% target in 2050 is possible. The State of New York that consumes much more electricity than all Italy has a plan that sets by 2050 the achievement of 100 percent of renewable energy not only for electricity generation, but also for the supply of heat. The Americans are capable and we are not capable. We are only able to entrench ourselves with treaties and ratifications: we are not able to do things, we always need someone else to do them. This is about avant-gardeness and cultural subjection. But this is the cultural subjection: waiting for others to tell us what to do! Instead, we should anticipate the trend. We should be the ones who say: "We did it. At this point, Europe, what's your apology? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For those who participated in COP19 in Warsaw, I remember that Germany, on renewable energy, said: "commitments"? There's no such thing as that. At the Lisbon Conference, which took place these days, it was clearly said that everything this government is doing on energy policies is wrong. It has been made clear that there are no extra costs in the energy bill due to renewable sources and that those who claim this mind. He was the Director-General of the Energy Directorate and not the last to arrive. A person in charge of that task by competence and not by political appointment. These are the points that must be taken into account. Let us see if you can learn and take something from our motion for a resolution. It's free. Just read it, in the name of the good of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u26	On what subject, Senator Airola? AIROLA (M5S). As a group leader, I intend to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the first point is that this is not the office of the President-in-Office of the Council, who must therefore not receive papers here, but listen to our proposals. The second is that you don't make jokes, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, I've already apologized to Senator Martelli. AIROLA (M5S). Until it is abolished, this remains the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u27	[[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u29	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is called Earth overshoot day. This is the day when renewable resources are officially exhausted that the planet is able to generate in a year. In the 1990s it fell in the early days of December. Ten years ago in mid-October. This year it fell in the second half of August. It means that every year we increase our debt to the environment and future generations. This fact tells us better than anything else the absolute importance of reversing our model of development, in order to go towards the only balance of the budget that is worth pursuing: the balance of the environmental budget, a balance between what we consume and what we produce. That is why I believe that keeping high targets in relation to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the development of renewables and the highest energy efficiency is not simply a desirable position as necessary. You were right, President Renzi, when you mentioned the need to use green economy as a competitive factor for our industry. The Province of Trento knows this well, because it has focused on Habitech district, more human manufacturing, environmental brands. And we must be able to make Italy as competitive as possible, even on this system. We have said this several times: the European Union cannot be just that of economic constraints and fiscal compacts. We want a Europe which, on the other hand, strongly pursues an even more important budgetary balance: an environmental balance. Europe must return to being a value. Trentino knows all this, because it has known on its own skin the effects of a divided Europe. That is why we are in the front row in the celebrations of the centenary of the Great War. A celebration that for us is not a stale fact, is not a mere institutional duty, but a fact felt, because we still live in our population the echo and memory of the First World War. Europe must return to being a reference point in the world. And the President-in-Office of the Council was right in recalling this role which Europe has abandoned in recent years. He has made many mistakes, starting with the underestimation of landings, the fact that Italy has been left alone for too long. Today he has to play a protagonist game compared to his relationship with Russia and an even more important one against ISIS. Europe must become the beacon of all those who believe in freedom, tolerance, peace among peoples, without if and without but because, as you said, condemnation must be absolute. And then, Mr President, Europe must return to being friends with its peoples. Well the 300 billion for development, well all those policies based on full environmental sustainability. However, Mr President, you are well aware of how this is also intertwined with the issues and choices of our home. I wonder and ask you: why not give new incentives to those who rely on renewables and energy efficiency? Improving tax deductions, improving, as you said, procurement regulations. In our motion this afternoon we called for a simplification and acceleration of procurement procedures and also for quality to be taken into account in energy procurement. You are well aware, Mr President, that these measures are also an incentive to consumption. Our hope is that in the various measures all policies that can combine economic recovery and environmental sustainability will become increasingly central in the action of the government you lead. With regard to Africa, Mr President, I am withdrawn from a trip with international cooperation in Uganda and South Sudan. I know that at the end of the month, on 26 October, you will meet the President of Uganda. It is a different Africa, in which a scenario is being created that can be quite interesting, from the point of view of investments, even Italians. We are not just talking about oil and other resources, but about agriculture with a new challenge: not just exporting products, but knowing, knowledge, technologies and skills; these are the challenges that concern us. Mr President, you are about to start the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It has also shown courage over the last few months in tackling structural reforms, as you have defined them, from the institutions to labour reform. We appreciated the attention to the German dual method and the strong connection with the world of work. We will do everything to support it: the institutional reform that we are discussing and which I hope we will approve is still too centralist, gives little space to the territories. We ask you to have confidence in the territories, their competences and their experiences, also in order to build Europe, which is built precisely taking into account all the diversity that it understands and the richness that these differences express. I wish you every success, first of all for Italy which is driving, but also for Europe which needs, as you said, to regain first and foremost unity, to believe in itself, to be competitive, to recover authority, to no longer have this cultural subalternity, but not to be self-referential, which would be just as great a mistake. For these reasons, our Group expresses its support, also in view of the communications it has made today and the content it has addressed, reaffirming our willingness to support these initiatives and its policy and to bring the contribution of the parties we represent, but also of the territories of which we are an expression. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u31	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have appreciated your speech and, in the three minutes at my disposal, I will put forward three questions, making as many proposals as possible, on which I would like to have your attention. I welcome the reference to ambitious environmental objectives in relation to electricity production and, in particular, the self-critical reference as an Italian political class to the unreasonable incentive policy that has been followed so far on renewable energy sources. I appreciate that it has set the target of 27%, which Italy has already largely achieved. This means that we will have further developments, especially on energy efficiency, where we have - there yes - an industrial supply chain. In this regard, with the Competitiveness Decree we had approved a rule on the securitisation of future incentive flows which can be an example for the whole of Europe, since in countries like Spain and Germany there have been similar "terrors" as those of Italy. Now, this rule is not being implemented because of the palliation of responsibilities between the Energy Authority and the Ministry of Economy and Finance: I ask you to make a commitment to ensure that it is implemented quickly. The second point I would like to raise is the environmental constraints that we have talked about. In another place, when it comes to industry, Europe has a 20% contribution to GDP from manufacturing. However, if we give ourselves strict environmental objectives and fail to transfer this commitment to international trade with other areas of the world, which do not give themselves these same objectives, we risk determining the relocation of part of European and Italian manufacturing activities and, far from increasing them, we would reduce them, increasing global pollution. I would like to ask whether, at European level, we should not begin to assess a carbon tax to be extended to international trade with non-European areas. I greatly appreciated, because I see in this a change of part of the national energy policy, the reference to the North-South axis, to be added to the traditional East-West axis in the policy of supplying energy sources of our country. I believe that the Government should also take the second missing stretch of road and undertake to support from this point of view the main Italian company, the national champion ENI, also on the front of the so-called South Stream project. President Renzi, I very much appreciated your commitment to the TAP, I appreciated this strategic breakthrough. I believe that we would do so by giving up EUR 2/3 billion next year, which the ENI should take to debt, in the South Stream building society, because this would increase Europe's dependence on Russia and certainly not decrease it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u32	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u33	Mr President, this European Council comes after weeks which have seen the panic again spread over the economic stability of the euro area, including Italy, and its banking system; a period that has seen France announce that it does not respect the European parameters and has seen the arrest of the German economy. The crisis in our country continues to bite harder every day. Concrete measures are urgently needed to shake the torpor of European governments and bureaucracies. Those bureaucracies that are becoming Europe's worst enemy. On 2 July last, President Renzi, you announced your EU presidency programme with heartfelt and ambitious words: We have six crucial months ahead of us to change Europe. If we do not do so, as the last elections have shown, the wind of Eurosceptics risks sweeping the Union away. He went on to say that the institutional architecture of the Union had to be changed with even more political union, with a new governance, announcing a constituent semester, with the launch of a convention with which to rewrite the Treaties by 2019. Perhaps you have missed that we now need changes in European policies; it is not the electoral wind of Eurosceptics that risks sweeping the Union away, but the ignorance and inability of the European ruling class. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] to respond to the economic crisis that is worsening the disparities between different countries and within the individual countries themselves, waving the usual flag of rigour, now worn out. The European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow has the first item on the agenda on climate and energy. In his words, we do not know very clearly what the European Union will take on the issues of greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. Energy and climate policies are not niche issues, which concern environmentalists and nature lovers: they are crucial issues for the revival of the economy in Europe, as well as geopolitical issues of great importance. The objective, set out in the European Commission's communication of January, is no longer sufficient. The target of increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 27% and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 must be increased. Energy efficiency needs to be speeded up. This means identifying key elements to reduce our dependence on foreign countries, improving our balance of payments, being more credible in criticising Putin for the invasion of Crimea, while on the other hand we buy gas. A government that wants to change towards Europe too and looks to the future should put at the centre a plan to reach energy self-sufficiency, based on the development of renewable energies and not on the neocolonialism of our times or concentrating resources on wrong choices such as those of the TAP. You are perfectly in continuity with the Berlusconi-Monti-Led Governments in obstructing the development of renewable energies, changing at the root the system of incentives and thus creating a permanent regulatory uncertainty for operators that is blocking investments. The choices of the Italian Government in favour of drilling and oil extractions, contained in the decree unblocks Italy, are therefore already in open contrast with the European guidelines. We are not talking about national policies on energy efficiency, nor about national strategy for adapting to climate change, while the effects of change are making us feel heavily on our country and the floods and weather events of these days, which we are talking about in the Senate just these hours, show this. These are essential and urgent measures, which have a far greater economic return than drilling. On economic issues, in its political document, under the heading 'Europe changes towards', it has told us in recent months that Europe cannot simply be the guardian of accounts, Europe cannot be a statement of accounts. (...) Overcoming austerity as a religion and counting as an end is the first step in building a political Europe that can choose and not only administer it. We also agree that overcoming austerity is the first step towards changing Europe. However, this means promoting public policies, demand policies, labour policies and expansive policies which are alternative to austerity policies based on cuts in expenditure, precariousness, nullification of rights and safeguards, privatisations that are now merely stagnant, economic depression, loss of productive capacity of enterprises and unemployment. Other than the Europe of peoples: we are in the furrow of the most bitter austerity, the one that has produced a dramatic crisis, which affects not only southern Europe, but also areas of the North, including the "Titanic" Germany, where the 500 euro mini-jobs make statistics splashing on employment but certainly do not allow a generation to think about the future; this is, paradoxically, a model that is taken as a reference in Italy. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude by reserving the remaining part of my speech, Mr President. There is an urgent need for rebalancing measures, which are capable of affecting incomes in favour of work and income from work. Exactly the opposite of what the Italian Government does with the introduction of the TFR in pay envelope, which seems to have the objective of plumbing the current low income in view of its further devaluation to the detriment of future assets. We agree that there must be a real change, even in Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you propose measures - and we do not see them at the moment - that go in that direction, starting with a tax reform that detachs work and affects unproductive assets and incomes, you will find our attention and our commitment. If instead it continues in this narrative of a different future, but in reality it is only a different fifth so as not to show that the stage and the actors are the same, it will find us Left, Ecology and Freedom, with correctness and transparency, contrary. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u34	The Presidency authorizes you to deposit the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u35	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have given an encyclopedic illustration of what you intend to do at the next European Council. Unfortunately for us in three or five minutes we are not able to make an analysis of his thinking, nor a series of proposals that go beyond generality. Then I'll use the few minutes I have at my disposal... (President Renzi talks with Senator Puppato). If you, Mr. Renzi, listen to us, or I'll stop. What do we do? My speech was about this. We are very grateful to you, from the heart, for coming to visit us and for wanting to make the press conference here in the Senate Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] In fact, we miss her. At the end of the age of Silvio, we miss you, I have to say "Matthew, we miss you." We miss it, because you bring your presidency a record that is significant: you have so far placed about four trusts per month, against the case-law that wanted a confidence per month for Prodi and a comma trust two per month for Berlusconi. This tells you a lot about the fact that you consider this House to be an elected puppet. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] It also says a lot about the fact that you come here to make these appearances more out of a spirit of publicity than out of respect or because you intend to grasp from the debate in this House some elements or ideas for reflection. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I come to the concrete, moving forward with the tasks. You continue to hold press conferences illustrating to the right and to the lack of the merits of the law of stability that, as far as we are allowed to know (since we too, poor mortals, have some information), is still deprived of the boiling of the General Accounting of the State. Well, since we are approaching yet another confidence, we would like to know if you want to be so kind as to let us know in time at least the main elements of this bill, because, you know, holding a discussion on the State's law of stability through press releases or conferences of the person concerned does not seem to me to be a very profitable exercise. Coming to what you will have to say and which you will certainly say, regardless of what we are saying in this House: take advantage of the Italian Presidency to do something for Italy both in the energy field and in the economic field; make sure that the authority conferred on it brings Italy the re-discussion of the Maastricht parameters and the acts which Europe, through Germany, imposed on us and which, beyond the fine words, force it to a policy that does not relaunch either the economy or employment. [[Call the president back.]] I'll finish. Mr Renzi, Napoleon Bonaparte, whom you will certainly inspire, loved to say that the good generals preferred the lucky generals; but remember that he lost to Waterloo because his most trusted and lucky general arrived late. Don't make too much use of luck, which I always wish you copious and fruitful, which has accompanied you so far in your political excursus and in your politics: try to be a little good too! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u37	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u38	Mr President, it seems to me that the European Council in Brussels tomorrow is very significant and not so much for its agenda. As far as the climate and energy problem is concerned, we can only share the common sense of the President-in-Office of the Council. It is significant because it is the last European Council of those chaired by Van Rompuy and therefore the last of the decade of the Commission chaired by Barroso. So, somehow, there is a political and institutional budget for this decade, beyond the broad respectability of the two figures of Van Rompuy and Barroso. Ten years ago Barroso was leading the Commission at a time of high hopes: the Convention was at work and the Italian Parliament had sent you nothing less than Giuliano Amato for the Senate and the willing Gianfranco Fini for the House. It was hoped then, in fact, in the institutional construction of that European homeland which the President of the Council called into question with some melancholy at the end of his remarks. The European Union as a political construction is experiencing a very difficult, if not failing, season: the idea of putting at the top of a political institution a technical moment such as currency has proved to be a failure, no less than it would have been in the Italian Risorgimento, more than 150 years ago, to set itself the objective of the Prussian Zollverein and not the national state. There are very important countries, although not always linked to the construction of Europe, such as Great Britain, where national sovereignty is to be reaffirmed, in a year and a half, with a terrible referendum because of the implications, and a political ping-pong match of a great leading country such as France is underway, in which, even if it is ping-pong and not tennis, breaths of unpleasant nationalism emerge enough. It is quite understandable, and I think it is essentially legitimate, that Italy should take a more balanced position, that of the President-in-Office of the Council: to try to boast of profound reforms in relation to rigid, not political, but purely technocratic parameters. However, this cannot be the place in which to deepen whether, how and how much the reforms undertaken in Italy really are. I would be wrong in the same spirit of synthesis as the President-in-Office of the Council summed up our attitude at the summit. If, however, I can make a final observation, without reducing that spirit of optimism for Ukraine that began to feed between Minsk and Milan, the tragedy of Ukraine is certainly linked to some arrogance, to some imperialist desire of Putin, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it must be said: it was a catastrophic mistake of Europe, of that third party that in February (there was Mrs Merkel, there was an English Baroness) went to exalt Piazza Maidan! Certainly, the Yanukovich regime was not an example of liberalism or parliamentaryism, but in the face of the silence of Europe in the face of the imprisonment of its opponent, this qualunquistic exaltation of Maidan Square led to a Ukrainian destabilisation that is frightening. I am full of hope for the elections on Sunday, and I hope to go and monitor with the OSCE, but I get the blood in the cames when I see that most of the candidates, not only the pro-Russian ones, are all armed, that they are all leading small groups out of the Ukrainian army and this sense of institutional, political and patriotic failure of many points of European history I think deserved to be emphasized on this occasion. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u39	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your disdain for this House is known for the nature of your measures and for the careful use of trust issues and for this deliberately sport bar attitude which I say to you, however, by the energy I feel in this House, that this feeling is absolutely mutual. Italy will come to the European Council tomorrow to define the 2030 EU framework agreement on energy and will present itself without the national adaptation strategy it should have had in hand since 2012, without the CIPE having approved the annual action plan for adaptation to climate change and, I believe, without even the plan, that it should be ready for 1 March and then it will have to be prepared every year. Instead, it presents itself with the old SEN, all called to fossil, to the large biogas plants and with in hand the new decree of the doing, that removes incentives to renewables and puts them on their knees, President Renzi, with in the pocket the decree unlocks Italy and in the drawer the Lupi law, where we expect drilling, regasifiers, incinerators, all paid with incentives that come from the taxpayers' money, with cement, TAP, gas, a wink to the shale gas, that we do not deserve to exclude, well knowing of the extreme impact regarding the production of CO2. You then say "Expo", but we feel "cement" and "variation of land use destination", which in a leap become edificable, and we think of a 14 lane highway, from Monza to Milan, the mafia infiltrations and lobbying interests. You also say 'energy redevelopment and renewable energy', but we do not read these words in any of the measures prepared in recent months by the Government, which we have been forced to study quickly. You are willing to respond to the European Commission's strategy of reducing CO2 emissions by 40%, a minimum ceiling of 27% for renewable energy and 25% for energy efficiency, but we have no evidence of how to do so. I would also like to say - although I am sure you will know this - that the European Parliament adopted a resolution last February highlighting the lack of ambition of the Commission's proposal: you also spoke of 'ambitious', but we must give weight to the words. The European Parliament argues that the Commission's three objectives are insufficient and that for 2030 at least 40% of CO2 emissions must be reduced, 30% of renewable energy and 40% of energy efficiency. However, it is still not enough, because several independent analyses have shown that this level of Community ambition and the resulting climate and energy objectives are not consistent with the emission reduction target of at least 95% in 2050, which can help to contain global warming at least below the critical threshold of two degrees Celsius. By 2030, in line with this reduction trajectory, there will have to be a steady reduction of 2% per year. According to these studies, the European Union must commit at least to a 55% reduction in emissions and, as far as energy efficiency is concerned, it must rise to 45% and at least to a 40% ceiling for renewables. 11:09 a.m. (NUGNES follow). (President Renzi talks with Senator Marcucci). I'm sorry that your being so smart makes you so insensitive to this scientific data, because it worries us! [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u41	Conclude, Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u42	NUGNES (M5S). It is true that the trade deficit with regard to fossil fuels is a certain fact: we are dependent from abroad on a large part of energy needs, but it is proven that investing in renewables can give us independence and a gradual transition to autonomy. Renewables can make an important contribution: by achieving the current binding target - that of 20%, because the others unfortunately are not - a net increase of Europe's gross domestic product is expected of 0.25 per cent in 2020 and of 0.45% by 2030, with a significant employment impact, from the current 1.2 million employed to 2.7 million in 2020 and 4.4 million in 2030. So, not only is it necessary, but it is also useful.... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u43	Excuse me, Senator, your time is really up. I can give you ten seconds to finish and not stop the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u44	NUGNES (M5S). Thank you. I simply conclude by saying that these operations are not only necessary, but also useful for the economic development of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today Europe is necessarily and unquestionably our destiny. It is the greatest and most successful experiment of political unity ever realized in the history of humanity, the dream - brought to completion - of peace and well-being of our fathers, the only chance of future protagonism in the global world for our children. But we must be realistic: perhaps, for the first time since Schumann, De Gasperi, Adenauer and Spinelli, we are once again forced to commit ourselves and to fight for this destiny. The risk is to lose what we have taken for too long for granted: security, well-being, social peace, an envied status and quality of life all over the world. We must again choose to be Europe, defending it from external dangers and its own selfishness, renewing our desire for a common citizenship. That is why we recognize the greatest importance of this day and thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having opened a dialogue with Parliament on these issues and for his non-formal communications, adding our contribution to that of the Government in view of the forthcoming European Council. However, we would also like to take this opportunity to explain to the Italians that these Summits represent much more than the group photos with which the mass media often summarize them; that on these occasions, much more than in the provincial shows that often reduce the politics of our home, we realize the choices that decide positively or negatively the weight of Italy in the world and the future of the life of each of us. We also know that Europe, like our country, must change step and face every step (such as the European Council in the coming days) with a sense of drama and urgency. This applies primarily to climate and energy policies. It is clear that we are not simply facing the update of the 20-20-20 strategy or the change of a few decimal places in benchmarks. It is certainly necessary to emphasise the ambitious objective of a further reduction in greenhouse gases and the technicalities needed to achieve it, that of 27% of energy from renewable sources or that of the efficiency of the internal energy market; but we believe - as the President of the Council also recalled - that it is useful to take advantage of this debate for a truthful operation in front of European citizens compared to the change of context in which the Union is moving in this field too, with the courage to face the renewed challenges starting from the issue of energy security (as the report presented by the Italian Presidency has well recalled) and the new obstacles to the policy of overcoming fossil fuels resulting from the emergence of new low-cost resources. We do not need to be analyzers to understand the consequences of Russia covering 39 percent of gas supplies to Europe in 2013 or that, in a perspective of growth of energy demand on a global scale estimated of 27 percent by 2030, the intensive exploitation by the United States of shale oil and shale gas also forces us to a pragmatic and rapid change of strategy. We believe that it should be better told to the citizens that, if the European Commission envisages immediate actions aimed at strengthening the resilience of the European Union in the face of large-scale disruption in the coming winter, it means that there are real dangers in this sense linked to the objective and known instability of international relations and that the substantial self-sufficiency of the USA in the field of energy, for example, is leading that country to a less geopolitical commitment in the area of the Mediterranean and the Middle East, which already forces Europe but also Italy to face without hypocritical unprecedented challenges related to defence policies, cooperation, security and immigration. But it is clear that, without taking anything away from other issues, such as the Ebola emergency or what I particularly care about, for territorial reasons, linked to the European strategy for the Adriatic and Ionian region, the most burning issues to be dealt with in the coming days will be the economic ones. We know that, even if the financial emergency seems momentarily under control, the economic crisis bites. Unemployment (especially youth) already at record levels and public debt continue to rise and economic growth - too weak and leopard - proves incapable of generating new employment by creating pockets of discontent and disaffection that undermine European leadership and the same democratic model in its foundations. All this must lead Europe to rethink its overall model in order to confirm its original objectives of social and economic growth, which have never been separated from full cohesion, and to update its instruments today, in part, inadequate. The economic challenge facing us, however, is not just about the crisis of recent years. Let us remember, for example, that in 2013, for the first time since 1850, the emerging and developing countries exceeded 50% of the share of global GDP, exhibiting, among other things, a debt share of GDP of less than 40%, while we developed countries are abundantly over 100%? We need a courageous medium- and long-term strategy to adapt our economies and societies to a world that has decided not to expect us anymore, and to respond to the Great Transformation that comes from the combination of globalisation and rapid demographic, technological and environmental changes. This is the challenge that, accompanied by the greatest sense of urgency, is ahead of the protagonists of the next Summit and represents the challenge of our contribution to this Italian-led semester. The question that needs to be answered in a short time does not allow any hesitation: how do we all avoid the eurozone sinking into the recession-deflation by returning to growth and creating jobs and stability? It must also be said to authoritative European partners that the earrings and the easy slogans on homework sound unnecessarily rhetorical to 18 million unemployed in economic and monetary union and to the evidence that having the accounts in place is an indispensable principle that our country continues to strive even more than others, but that the necessary structural reforms in individual countries produce delayed effects while in recession we need rapid action. If you will be able to recover the sense of a common effort the exit routes are not lacking. Mario Draghi mentioned them, among others, in his August speech at Jackson Hole. First of all, in addition to making reforms that increase the potential product, fiscal policies need to be coordinated, so that countries that are in a position to make an expansionary policy contribute to supporting aggregate demand. Secondly, it must be acknowledged that the mandate of the Central Bank also includes the task of providing the governments of last resort. To this will have to be added a plan of European infrastructural investments as we have repeatedly supported, financed on a continental scale with the use of europroject bonds or eurounion bonds. Strategy that can and must be connected with the investment plan (as President Juncker confirmed in these minutes) of 300 billion that will have to be operational before the end of the year. President Renzi, with the mandate of this Parliament, you can undoubtedly say in Brussels that we Italians still believe in Europe and that, before that, we have confidence in Europeans who, we are sure, want to continue to share a common path. We believe, however, that it is worth starting to treat them as adult citizens, telling them the facts and transparently the choices made to continue to guarantee our well-being and our specificity. We are certain, in fact, that no European can escape the drama of the moment, the not momentary hardness of the economic crisis, or the climate of war that from Ukraine to the Middle East to Libya surrounds our nations now almost addicted to peace. The time has come, however, to try to put everyone in front of their responsibilities and the consequences of the different roads before us. In the next few hours, for example, we will decide on the attitude to be taken towards a great country like France, having to choose - as our Premier reminded us - between a "rumorous" derogation from the roof of 3%, which would sound unfair for those who in recent years have always made the effort to keep their accounts in order, and the risk that the rejection of Hollande's government will give breath to those anti-European and anti-system forces that have been protagonists of the last electoral round. And the same goes for the Great Britain of Prime Minister Cameron and his request for a change in reception and asylum policies that is at the attention of public opinion not only of that country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is today in our continent those who demand more Europe and those who want less. The only real way, we believe, is to work for a better, more supportive, more efficient, more protagonist. If that is not the case, we risk, and risk, that there is no Europe at all and we know what happened in the world when our continent gave up being a beacon of culture, development and unity. To prevent the dramas of the past from happening again is our commitment today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u47	Madam President, Mr Renzi, the communications you have made to this House with a view to the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Brussels contain a number of considerations which are partly acceptable. First: the energy policies and their inconsistencies, so far reported in the absence of real benefits on the green industry in Italy due to a vacuum in the industrial energy supply chain in our country. Secondly, the large energy networks in the world, which must be interconnected, will otherwise not be able to transport energy where (see Italy and Western Europe) there is need (therefore the need for strong and lasting international agreements). Third: the long transition phase that particularly characterizes Italy, parodiing the great Ennio Flaiano, which was in fact a precursor of the theorization of the transition ad libitum. Fourthly: the areas of the planet at risk, insidious for those balances that, day by day, we all have the duty to seek. We also join in his commendation for the capital of Lombardy, when he reminds Parliament, or the country, of the role played by Milan at the recent World Summit between Heads of State and Government. We think and hope that Milan will return to being the moral capital of the nation, with a bit of pride, but also with prosaic selfishness, as we are aware that, when Milan starts again, produces goods and services and puts in circulation intellectual creativity and propulsion, the rest of Italy, including the South, is also well, which from the thrust of the Expo 2015 awaits benefits and billed, employment and growth, in harmony with the rest of the country and Europe. But it is on the old continent that I like to focus attention; a focus on what you rightly call cultural subalternity of Italy, Italian politics and the Italian economy towards Europe. You therefore clearly suggest that it is paradoxical that the Italian ruling class is alarmed when rumors about the arrival of letters from Europe begin to circulate and claims, in this regard, pride and courage in the European approach. But, by grace, we ask ourselves, and you should ask yourself, too, and above all you: who helped create this subalternity over the years? Who, with far-sighted and even self-harmful choices, has guided the fear of Europe? Who has consciously, for the sake of shop interests, filled with contempt the national positions towards Europe, which treated us as an evil stepmother, when the governments were in charge of the center-right and, specifically, of Prime Minister Berlusconi? But I go beyond this polemical reference, because I'm rather interested in the not said, what you don't want to admit. Should we expect anything else in the coming days, in the coming hours from Brussels? Will there be a letter from Europe that will also contain a series of heavy reminders, ripples, warnings? It will be the markets that will tell us the disruptive effect of such missives. God does not want this to happen, because everything would take on the tones of a Greek tragedy, not only in the classic sense of the word. You probably wanted to anticipate this, President Renzi. We have understood this and therefore we trust that the line of transparency and responsibility prevails, especially in the interests of our politics, our economy, our entrepreneurship, our productions, our occupations, our young people and their hopes. Thank you. We believe, Mr Renzi, that in the next few hours Italy and France will be faced with requests and objections about the deficit and the debt-deficit ratio. On this, of course, we would like to be denied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u48	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta, No 2 (text 2), Senator Calderoli, No 3, Senator Candiani and other Senators, No 4, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 5 (text 2), Senator Airola and other Senators, No 6, Senator Malan and other Senators, No 7, Senator Paolo Romani and other Senators. As the President of the Council of Ministers does not wish to speak in response, I would ask the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u49	Madam President, we welcome the motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta, and No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. On the other motions for resolutions, although there are some of them, and particularly in No 7, tabled by Senator Paolo Romani, some of which are acceptable, the opinion is opposed to the general approach.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u53	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his report, which has certainly covered the major issues of this time which are going through a Europe in difficulty and which often, reading the news, we see do not grasp the problems in which he lives. In the complexity of a globalised world Europe is certainly still the first economic power with its 25% of world GDP, with its standards of quality of life, social protection, education and universal health that, in other parts of the world, even evolved, are not yet so significant. At the same time, however, Europe can no longer put in place the lamentation of those who see the world change, of those who see the income of billions of people grow and pretend not to question its model of development and growth, its achievements. Dealing with the future is very difficult, especially if it means doing it with the billions of people who until twenty years ago still fed on a bowl of rice and today, instead, claim a higher standard of living. That's why the one we're looking at is big. It is a political, social, economic and institutional challenge. And the institutional response comes even before the social one. We have repeated it several times in this year and a half with successive governments. It is the challenge that European governments and national parliaments must put to themselves before the Community institutions. Yet, precisely on the issues that we are going to discuss with our governments at the European Council in the coming days, we must fully demand the role that Europe has played over the years on those matches. It is certainly not Europe that has held back from the need for stricter rules on the issues of climate change and global pollution. It is certainly not the European Union that has not put in place initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions or to be able to challenge the major players of our time - including China, India and the United States - to stricter rules, different standards of quality of life, a different relationship between economy, development, growth and environmental protection. There is an important match, which was born a few years ago with Strategy 20-20-20, when we posed the problem of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 and allocating 20% of energy production to renewable sources. We are raising the bar, and we are doing so in the awareness, which the President-in-Office of the Council recalled, of the importance of building our development on a green and sustainable economy, an economy that does not give up growth, giving up, in fact, only the unfortunate decline remains. But growth must be characterized by a sustainable model that, however, is not the nostalgia of a good time that was, when we were the only great protagonists on the chessboard of the world, along with the United States, and 800 million people enjoyed and consumed 80% of the world's resources. This is no longer the world. And if national parliaments and national governments do not take note of this, talking against the institutions of Brussels or asking for more interventions and more resources becomes a howling to the moon. There is no abstract Europe separate from the Member States. The rules are still written by the Member States. Initiatives to amend the Treaties must start with Member States, parliaments and national governments. And if these institutions are not able to respond adequately to the challenges of this time it is because there is no awareness of the importance of continuing in what was the great hope and utopia of the fifties. That stop-and-go on the Community institutions, on the strengthening of their powers, on the transfer of national sovereignty is what has led us, albeit with all the limitations, to this Europe, which is still able to cope with the challenges of the world, even in these areas. It is clear that, in addition to the agenda items at the day after tomorrow's meeting (which deal with how to strengthen energy and economic strategies), we must ask ourselves what this is all about. A more integrated political Europe, in which there is greater transfer of sovereignty to the Community institutions, is a Europe that must have some pillars. The reform of agriculture has given us food independence. Energy reform and new energy policies will give us energy independence, that is, the ability to lay the foundations for our development in the green economy of the 21st century (exactly what we wanted to do with the ECSC in the 1950s). Without food independence and energy independence, it is not even possible to imagine the future of Europe. But in order to do this, as was rightly pointed out, we need to have a global strategy in the world very different from the one we have developed in recent years. A global strategy that passes through relations with the Republics of Central Asia, with the Republics of North Africa, with the Middle East and also with Russia, but in a plural logic of supply. That is the only way we can maintain our political independence from energy independence. It's no different than in the Fifties and Sixty Mattei did for Italy. It is no different from what was done at the beginning of this century in Europe, identifying different supply lines, in order to be able to depend in a different way on energy. It is no different from the strategies on renewable sources and the projects we have taken today for 2020 by raising the bar. The second reflection is on major international issues. We must express our gratitude for the role we have played at this stage of our Presidency, both on the Ukrainian issue and on those of Libya and Syria. However, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, who will certainly no longer be President-in-Office of the Council in two months' time, to tell the High Commissioner for Foreign Policy, as well as Vice-President of the Commission, that we or we, as Italy, exercise this function to give a sign of a breakthrough on the service of external relations and a true European diplomacy, to place the flags of the European Union in the largest number of countries in the world and to become the point of reference also for the individual 28 European States and for the others who will enter, or we will lose this battle and, losing it, we will not give our breath to a more united, more sovereign, more cohesive vision of Europe, more able to face the challenges of our time. The third reflection I am proposing is an invitation to put on the table the issues that may also seem utopian, such as that of the United Nations seat in the European Union. We use these years and the role we have to strengthen ourselves and, after food and energy independence, we also aim for foreign policy sovereignty through the allocation of that seat to the European Union. Utopia? Maybe, but these are the big springs of our time. Finally, I would like to make a final comment on the Community institutions. We must recover the spirit of 1984, when, in a European Parliament in which no one believed it possible, we came to such a profound modification of the Treaties as the Treaty of Lisbon. Well, 23 years later, we must re-examine the issue of amending the Treaties because without further strengthening the process of integrating the powers of the Commission, or further transfer of sovereignty, we will not be able to respond to the challenges of this time, and we will only be able to protest against a Europe that does not have the tools to intervene in the global crises, nor on the issues of our time. These assumptions, which have been prepared over the last few months, which have only been announced and whose foundations have been laid in some way, must be transformed into concrete acts, not only in the Italian Presidency, but in all the work of the European Council which will accompany the election of the new President. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u54	I would like to welcome a representative of students from the Istituto comprensivo "San Domenico Savio" in Barletta, today visiting the Senate. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u57	ROMANO (PI). Mr Renzi, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Group for Italy strongly endorses and supports its communications and therefore also the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority. His speech, which is particularly challenging with regard to the development that takes place at European level on the issues we all care about, highlighted three points that seem essential to me: energy policies, the role of Italy in Europe and the reform and innovation season. To a superficial analysis on the part of some of us, it may seem to be three inappropriately assembled themes, but that is absolutely not the case, because the dimension of an energy policy is the foundation not only of the economic development of the nation, but also of liberation from enslavement to powers. Diversification of energy supply is, in our view - and I stress this - a foundation of freedom and democracy. In his speech, he stressed a diadic relationship no longer between East and West, but between North and South. This is not only a dimension that we could define as geographical or geopolitical, it seems to me rather that it has a profoundly content and value, because the diversification of supply, as I said earlier, also involves a valorization of the territories, populations and countries that have always been used and exploited. I believe that it is precisely the development of these geopolitical relations that means not only Italy, but European energy policy. I believe that the role of Italy is extremely important, not to tell us among us, as Italians and senators, but for a simple reason: in the history of Europe, Italy has never had an ancillary and supplementary role, but certainly as a protagonist. In a previous speech here in this House, I pointed out that we should not consider ourselves a country that is in Europe, but a country that is Europe. I believe that this is a fundamental aspect, not only for a kind of encouragement for ourselves, but for a simple rational, objective and objective examination of what Italy wants to mean, what it has represented and what it will represent. I was struck by another aspect of his speech, when, with intellectual honesty as well as political honesty, he drew attention to the energy supply from Eastern countries. It seems to me to make a remark made earlier by President Casini, when he pointed out that Ukraine should not be considered a region of European or other origin, but a bridge that gives us the possibility of a new reconciliation not only at European level, but at international level. I believe that in the fourth month of the Italian Presidency it is time to reap what has been sown, it is time for Italy to realise the results. Today's communication seems to us to have achieved two important results. The first concerns the climate and energy policy of the European Union for 2030; the second concerns Italian economic policy in Europe. It would be presumptuous, I would say utopian, to think that all the problems have found an answer, a resolution and that there is nothing more to be dealt with and debated. The first result, the achievement of an agreement on the governance of energy policies, was one of the four priorities defined by the Italian Presidency. With the Council of 24 October it is reached. We must recognise that the government has done a long and patient job in the search for a compromise, I would say more, of mediation between the two different positions of the European Parliament and the European Commission. The challenge is complex because every solution proposed must take into account, on the one hand, the need for flexibility required by the Member States and, on the other hand, the Commission's commitment to climate and environmental issues. Once the agreement has been reached, it will have a significant scope, especially in view of the efforts to combine the needs of economic competitiveness and security of supply with the EU's ambitious objectives for sustainability and combating climate change. At a time of prolonged crisis, and with still stagnant growth, the objective of encouraging governments' action against climate change through the adoption of measures and instruments, which are considered economically and technologically more appropriate according to the characteristics of each Member State, is an objective that we consider to be very important. Only in this way, in fact, is freedom guaranteed to governments in determining an energy mix without imposition on the part of the European Union. Mr President, you, in a rather heartfelt passage, have recalled how the reform season, the innovation season, which is characterizing this Government, must and can have a direct correlation with all political dynamics at European level. I believe that this aspect is certainly not the last one, but the first element to attest even more to the credibility of a country, of a government, which by questioning self-referential powers in the name, instead, of progress and innovation, is able to give a tangible signal of dynamism and future prospects not only to Italy itself but, of course, also to Europe. Of course, the Italian Government is showing courage, ability to intervene and assume responsibilities. Only those who take responsibility can say aloud that they are striving to build a better reality; not only a political reality, of course, but also a society that can give space and a complete response - and we say this firmly and continue to stress this - to all those social realities that are in a situation of poverty and poverty. Even more, it is necessary to give an answer to those millions of young people who obviously need to find their own realization at home, yes, it is true, forming themselves also outside and in other parts of the world (because it is right that it is so), but then bringing back those knowledge and skills, which constitute an enrichment and a development in our social realities. The measures you have highlighted in the past days, and which will find further attention in the coming days, show determination and courage in an environment that is sometimes - let me pass and a strong expression, which I usually do not love at all - hostile, without resources and subject to strict European constraints. We fully agree with you, Mr Renzi, that Europe is nothing else from us and, even more so, that Europe without Italy is not Europe because it needs us, our economy, our manufacturing companies, our businesses and, above all, our human capital. To bring Italy back and the needs of the country as a necessity of Europe and not against Europe, the needs of economic growth, development, the fight against inequality and poverty as European needs and not only Italians, is a priority issue. In the light of these brief reflections, I renew by the Group For Italy, confidence in the work of the Government you have chaired and, in this case, in the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority which will shortly be put to the vote. [[Applause from the PI, PD and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u59	You're free for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u60	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I think I have ten minutes. I thank President Renzi for his speech and for his presentation, on the eve of a very important... president. Excuse me, Senator, so that you can arrange your speech, I confirm that there are five minutes because Senator D'Anna spoke first, according to the agreements between the Leaders. I would remind you that you can arrange your speech taking into account your actual time. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Thank you, President. I therefore immediately go to the heart of the reasons that lead us to ask the President of the Council not only to have the ability to draw and to make Italy, and above all to the new generations, imagine the path that our country can and must take, but also to have the courage to implement what is proposed as a model of development for Italy and as the role of Italy itself in the European and global context. Indeed, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we are talking about energy resources, energy supplies and we understand the importance of looking for them in the field of alternative energy, then we consider it incongruent to find in the decree unblocking Italy facilities for further drilling in our seas and for forms of energy supply that are not exactly in line with what we imagine to be positive for our country. Or, again, we consider it incongruent to go back to the idea of waste-to-energy rather than the method of recycling with regard to our waste. It indicates, how can it not take advantage and not emphasize the importance of having a country that extends for its half towards the Mezzogiorno, is located in a part of the hemisphere whose current conditions would allow the use of alternative energies? It almost seems that we are talking about general titles, but then it is important to get down to the concrete. In concrete terms there is a whole part of the country. When you speak of a North-South director, I who come from the South and I am a part of the South, I am filled with hopeful attention, but then I look unnecessarily in your Government's speeches for what might add to this expectation. And instead, going specifically perhaps too quickly, I must remind you of the delegations on territorial cohesion and the invention of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, put in place by the previous Government through Minister Trigilia and then perpetuated by successor Delrio, an invention that continues to represent an element of total blocking of the possibility of spending and investment of Community funds in the South of our country. The initiatives under Objective 1 are absolutely blocked by the Presidency of the Council because you have not yet managed to set up this Agency for Territorial Cohesion, which we warned Minister Trigilia to be an element of stagnation and further blocking. And what if this is the time to address the priority axis issue? If you remember, cohesion policies were implemented through axes, where the energy factor was one of the fundamental elements. Well, all this is blocked and so how can you believe it, Mr President? On the one hand, in fact, the higher the level of discussion, the closer the ability to disagree on the issues is, but on the other hand, when this Government denies by its own action or omission everything it proclaims, it becomes objectively difficult to adhere to its positions. As far as our relations with Africa and the Mediterranean are concerned, you, as President-in-Office of the Council, have also gone to an African country, but then we must be consistent and when we say that the policy of the cooperation treaties must be overcome, we must put forward these declarations, starting to do - and you authoritatively, as President of the Union at this time, you can certainly say that - that the Treaty of Barcelona is out of date because it has not produced the desired effects. In this strategic role of Italy in the Mediterranean we are not doing anything concrete in the direction of what you have proclaimed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Yes, Madam President, I am about to conclude. When we talk about the cooperation treaties, in fact, there is no doubt that we are referring to acts that are seen by Italians as limiting their production and development capacity, because when we talk about a treaty with Morocco we see only the limitation to our agricultural productions. But if we were to discuss with Morocco and the other Maghreb countries in terms of progress and joint construction of a new economy, then it would change not only the philosophy, but also the attitude of the population in relation to development policies. I hope that you will draw from this indication of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms the courage to move towards a concrete and effective change in these aspects of European policy as well. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u63	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, we are mainly speaking on the basis of your last consideration: we are Europe. A consideration that we can only share, because we represent a Group, that of the Autonomies and other political parties, which have a great European tradition. We live on the border and I think it is essential to rediscover the spirit of De Gasperi, Adenauer and Schuman or what you have defined as the spirit of Milan by referring to last week's meetings, when you actually wanted to play a leading role as Europe, where Italy is using the last months of your presidency at European Union level in the best way possible. This is particularly important because only in this way, probably, will we be able to deal with what many have called the most serious economic and social crisis since 1929. Using all the flexibility margins provided for in the Treaties becomes essential, fundamental precisely for social maintenance, since when we talk about work and the number of unemployed present not only in Italy, but also in other European countries, we refer to the real problem that risks undermining what is also called Euroland. In our view, today we must go beyond Euroland, and beyond what is an agreement between states. We must move towards a perspective in which we will certainly risk giving up further shares of sovereignty, but this will become fundamental, in order to consolidate certain processes and essential if we look at the future of the new generations. Only in this way will we be able to compete in a globalised world, only in this way will we, as in the United States of America or other developed countries, be able to react to this crisis. No one has placed too strict constraints, just think of the United States, even if they certainly start from different conditions. On this issue too, some of his provocations - we call them because they are so painted in the press - we shared them and we consider them essential to rediscover the spirit that led the founding fathers of the European Union, because only in this way, as some authoritative representatives of the German world claim, in the post-war period Germany itself managed to overcome the crisis and create the conditions for its development. I say this because, as you know very well, a social crisis is also taking place in Germany: these days there are strikes in air and rail transport, because people are realizing that we need Triple A not only economic but, as Juncker said in the European Parliament today, also Triple A social. If we go in this direction, we will certainly be called upon to do all the so-called home and even out-of-home tasks, so that Italy is consistent with the ongoing reform process. A full-bodied process which will obviously require Parliament to have extraordinary sessions of work, but I think that this is essential to make it clear what the real outcome of this parliamentary term will be, either because this will be a parliamentary term in some respects, or it risks actually becoming a parliamentary term of which we will read every week about its duration and if so, probably more than a thousand days! Of course, it will take a lot of work, but it is clear that this is the challenge we face, if we want to regain a relationship with the real country. In this direction we shared last week the strategy of the same Document of economy and finance, because we realize that you place the country at this moment, in a phase of debate also of cultural character and I say it because you are asking essentially the State, the Regions and the local authorities in general to withdraw from some issues that are today totally delegated to the public part and, in conclusion, launches a challenge towards the private ones. They are asked less, being understood that all are called to do their part. You want to renew a social pact, we share this strategy because I believe that in a historical phase such as the present to shock the whole country in cultural terms, is strategic. Having said that, we will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1, tabled by the majority, which our Group has also signed, and of motion No 2 (text 2) as indicated by the Minister. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, SCPI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u66	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. We would have expected more, President Renzi, not because you owe it to us, but because you certainly owe it to the country, remembering also that each of us does not represent himself, but has a function of representation towards the citizens. This is not yet the Senate of the 100 that will represent the Regions and who appointed them: this is still the Senate that represents the citizens and from those who come to make a communication we expect the motivations, the deepenings, not a shabby formal declaration. We also expect a reply that will give justice to the interventions of the senators who have highlighted, each responding to the sensibilities of their own groups, the issues that we all want you to bring to the meeting that will hold in the next few days with your colleagues in Europe. You see, Mr Renzi, the question you ask yourself is: what is the usefulness of the Italian Presidency of the European Semester? Is this a merely formal usefulness, that of allowing some important photography with some leaders? Or is it really an important opportunity for the country to be able to engage an economic recovery that we cannot engage on our own? Or it is an opportunity that the country has to find itself again, confronting other countries, who have similar economic problems, but who do not find in Europe a fair recognition of their own reasons. Today his report gives the idea of something absolutely empty. What will remain of this European Semester of Italian Presidency? Probably, as I said before, there will be a few pictures left. In the future he can boast with friends and relatives of some nice selfies, taken together with Hollande or Mrs Merkel. This is frankly very disappointing. We're a weak country today. You will go to the European Council and you will certainly present the Italian situation in a robotic way, saying that you have done the reforms and that you have managed to get to where they have not gone even in the twenty years: we are disrupting the trade union system, the protection of labour is something else. In reality, what I call our European friends do not stop at the empirical data reported by the press, they do not stop at the image, but they go to look at the accounts. Then one cannot fail to grasp in what used to imply a next wand on his fingers. You see, we can deceive ourselves and you can deceive Italian citizens - and I must say that you are very good at selling the image with respect to the substance - but you cannot cheat the accounts. At a time when a financial maneuver such as the one it will present in Europe does not contain serious structural interventions, capable of reversing economic flows, we are carrying out only financial maneuvers and not economic maneuvers, which generate work. What people today want you to commit to discussing in Europe is work and certainly not the interests of banks and finance, which are far from our needs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That of FIAT by Marchionne is certainly not an ideal example, because we are not talking about a company that is making Italy big, but about a company that has socialised losses and privatised profits. This is an Italian company that today simply has the flag on the hood of the cars. I would not be very happy to go and take a picture of myself, for example bringing a company which has one seat in the Netherlands, the other in Britain and which is listed on the London Stock Exchange. Is this the example of an economy that you want to move to Europe today by Italy? This is disappointing, Mr President, and very disappointing. We would have expected a closer look at the issues. You have merely said that you have maximum ambitions on environmental issues, but there is no rose water on the agenda for what you are discussing the day after tomorrow, with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, the state of the emissions trading system, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and energy security. These are elements that also coincide with a debate that has taken place at this moment in the Senate about environmental emergencies and our territory that crumble. We could seize the opportunity to go to Europe to talk about these problems too, but nothing: it slipped away like water on marble, light, even giving up the reply. We would have liked to hear something meaningful and serious about the Middle East, because it is not that if the newspapers don't talk about it for a week the problem has disappeared. Otherwise this theme becomes like the issue of illegal immigrants, so it was enough a political demonstration of 100,000 people in Piazza Duomo, in Milan, to magically make the news about illegal landings disappear from the newspapers. There are no more landings: the media have completely hidden any news of new arrivals. President, it is not that if we play these games with the newspapers the country goes on and the problems are solved. The problems must be addressed! When 100,000 people in the streets say they stop the invasion of illegal immigrants, the government needs to take a serious position in Europe. Let's be clear and clear: all the great operation made to have Minister Mogherini appointed High Representative of European foreign policy what advantage has it brought to our country? Nothing, indeed the same has even disappeared today. What advantages have we had from Europe? Nothing, simply to have changed the name of Mare nostrum to Triton, almost a movie thing: we change the name and the film. The problem today is met by those who take 250 euros per month and are disabled, while the Government of the Italian Republic pays 1,200 euros per month to keep a clandestine in this territory. These are the issues that we want you to go and discuss in Europe and on which the country must say enough, stop, stop. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's not water on marble. President, allow us to be a little relieved of your pavoneggiare of the international relations that you have been able to build with Mozambique and Congo, great Republics and democracies, but perhaps we have also applied the sanctions against Russia that cost us two billion euros, perhaps we will lose jobs and certainly with Congo and Mozambique there will be international and multinational interests with which someone has usefulness to deal with. On the contrary, Germany, Merkel, takes care of Russia. Honestly we didn't like that image of that four-way table, with her opening the door and the others sitting: the Merkel and Hollande on one side, Poroshenko and Putin on the other, and she was at the door looking. This is not a country that makes itself respected; it is a country that hosts, very hospitable, as towards the illegals: it makes itself available, pays them also the expenses and those make their interest. We have to do our best! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You must bring the interest of Italian workers and Italian companies to Europe, you must say: "Stop! Enough, we no longer apply economic sanctions!It is because these sanctions harm us and favour other interests, which are not of this country. This means representing in the European Semester the Italy you want to represent, otherwise - I repeat with great disappointment - you represent yourself with a beautiful camera. This is very disappointing. President Renzi, we are facing a country that is unfortunately losing the ability to do business, but not because, as you would like to say, there are no more entrepreneurs able to do so or because we need investors from abroad who bring their capital here. I open the usual parenthesis: beware of speculation because we are also seeing in these days what happens in some realities. The foreign countries send their capital here and make investments, but when the speculative investment ends, they go away and we remain like the rag paper, without more work and not even our best industries. In Italy there are still entrepreneurs who have the ability to do business, but they want a lighter tax that is able to respect them and certainly a Europe that does not impose the bureaucracy that we find ourselves. We have faith in our ability to work, but it seems that you do not have confidence in the Italians. He asks the Italians for sacrifices, but then how does he represent them in Europe? Mr President, you have committed yourself here to representing what Parliament has asked of you. We have not heard in his reply what he accepted: let us see one resolution and, next to that, another one; one very confusing thing. Allow me the final line: with this you have certainly intended to favor a kind of renewable energy: fried air; you have circulated air. Mr President, we want more concreteness, otherwise the disappointment at the end of the European Semester will not be ours alone, but the whole country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u69	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, one issue on which we have been very distracted in the course of the debate is that of the environmental emergency, which I would like to translate with a few words, because energy interventions include this concept and because we have all now experienced experiences, often dramatic ones, which have concerned the methods of obtaining energy resources, the effects that these methods have caused in international relations between countries, in the global ecological system and in terms of growth, economic development and employment. So it is a subject that would have required attention from the House, on the contrary, its full attention. Another important topic is how epidemics spread, which are not only those affecting humans but also all other living beings: the diseases and phytopathologies that spread, reduce the biological quality of our planet and have important consequences. On the other hand, it has been decided to talk more or less about something else, to open up controversy between the opposition and the government and to neglect the substance, so much so that we have already decided what to do (this is one of the reasons why we will not vote in favour of the majority's motion for a resolution which translates into one and a half lines): we approve what the President-in-Office of the Council said. A further effort should also have been made to contribute as a Parliament to the work that the President of the Council is called upon to do in the seats of the most general government of our continent, that is, the European Union. Instead, some have given up and others have talked about something else. We have tabled a 14-page motion for a resolution, which we suggest reading, consisting of two parts, one of analysis and one of proposals, in which we set out some fundamental points that must be dealt with, discussed and achieved in the forums of confrontation between governments in Europe: 30% of renewables, 30% of energy efficiency (which must be mandatory and binding and cannot be a statement of principle and then go beyond), and 40% of emissions reduction. But why is that? I suggest this as an element of reflection also to the Government and the President of the Council, with all due respect: the new frontier of production, the new frontier of economic development is how we will save the planet because from this point on the problem we will have to ask ourselves is our survival. You can build an economy on this topic and you can be ahead of others on this topic. I come from a NATO mission in Alaska where 50 percent of the permafrost went to get blessed, as well as 70 percent of the ice thickness; there 400 scientists from the U.S. Department of Energy prevent offshore drilling on the Arctic; and they do it against the Alaska Government, because they have to save the planet. [[Applause from Senators Simeoni and Puppato.]] This is the fact, this is the element that we must consider, even where armies, together with universities, study how they can activate civil protection interventions in the event of particularly violent and particularly harsh disasters that can occur; our environmental system, in fact, is an environmental system in crisis. So - and I say this to the President-in-Office of the Council - this is a real field of innovation, it is not just about changing forms. It is also the merit that makes progressives; it is not only changing one thing, but it is what is changed and how it is changed that makes progressives, that puts us in front of barriers to be demolished, that makes us build the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u70	You should finish, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u71	URAS (Misto-SEL). I have concluded, Madam President. That is why we ask that we talk about this, when we are called to talk about this, also because our country needs to fully exercise the right-duty to participate in the solution of these problems. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u74	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Group I represent, for your intervention. He sees: energy and environment, climate, sustainability and growth are fundamental issues and, when dealing with such topics, it could be easy, almost indulgent, to fall or expire in technicalism and limit itself only to the subject. You, on the other hand, have rightly given a largely political cut. In our view, it did well, because that is the point. You see, colleagues, there are two elements of nature, air and water, which know no borders; they do not know the borders of countries and do not know the borders of continents. These are themes that need to be tackled in a holistic way, bearing in mind that obviously only with strong policies that start not from Italy, but start from Europe and Europe become fundamental for the rest of the countries of our planet, we can get seriously to driving policies. We are fully aware that Thursday 23 and Friday 24 in Brussels will deal with these issues, which are crucial for the next fifteen years; but these are also issues that will be addressed, leading to findings that will certainly become decisive as early as 2015, when in Paris they will be confronted at the international climate conference. We are convinced that the objectives, before 20-20-20 and today 40-27-30, are ambitious but within reach. We are also aware that these objectives must go through political conciliation, for a very simple reason: because we, the nations of Europe, cannot take the risk of neocolonialism. After having exploited for centuries the natural resources of other peoples and other continents, we cannot now have the presumption and arrogance to impose models of development that start from the assumption of a cultural and technological predominance. So we must go to find the right point of fall not only between the interests, which must be or become convergent, within the European Union, but also with the other member countries of the human consortium. You have touched on these very issues, bearing in mind that they are issues that are addressed from the North to the South and from the East to the West. And - he said well - the strong Europe is built with respect and dialogue. We have a high idea of Europe, because the history of Europe is interwoven with the history of Italy and it is a thousand-year history, a history that starts from common principles, ideas and values. This high idea, among other things, was well represented by the fathers of Europe, who are born within European popularism, when the world and precisely Europe were divided into opposing blocs. We, who have that very high idea, are fully aware that Europe needs not only our ideas and our people, but also our history, our past. He needs our proactive ability in the future. And this government has demonstrated this very recently, with Operation Mare nostrum, that operation that has fully... SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut up! MARINELLO (NCD). ...demonstrated culture and civilization that we have exported... [[Applause from Senator Collina.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut up! MARINELLO (NCD). ...all over Europe, creating the premises for a new relationship with the African and Asian continents. Since the Mare nostrum operation, we have created the conditions for a European policy, for a new foreign policy. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] The success of our policy, the success of Minister Alfano, is that today, for the first time, with Operation Triton, that someone in this House has minimized, becomes political strategy and need for global confrontation, confrontation of all European countries, without any cultural subalternity, that to which you referred and which unfortunately, many times, is used within our country as an argument to be hurled against the opponent, against the government of the moment. We are convinced, Mr President, that we have a great opportunity these days in Brussels. We look with great confidence to the law of stability that the Government has proposed, a law that has in itself the premises precisely to guarantee those policies of growth today no longer eludible. Then go with confidence to Europe, knowing that it has a full mandate from this Parliament, a mandate full of the forces that support this majority. We are perfectly convinced - as you said - that we do not get out of the crisis if we do not tackle these issues with a global, strategic vision, with a vision that sees Europe interact with all the countries, with all its main interlocutors. And I fully agree with what you have said about our strategically most important neighbour, Russia. It is precisely the policy of recovery towards that great country that will guarantee us - in my opinion - results at hand. Finally, allow me to make a little suggestion. Highlights on strategic policies related to infrastructure interconnections. Today we have, of course, the need to produce energy, trying to maximise results and productivity, minimizing the impact on the environment and the landscape, which are - in our view - non-negotiable values. But we also have an interest in maximizing the results of this production by guaranteeing the passages of energy, from where it is produced to where it is consumed. As you know better than I do, you are not in Europe today. The Iberian peninsula - for example - is a large producer of renewable energy, but today it cannot export to the rest of the European countries, because interconnection lines are not guaranteed. This certainly represents a frontier: it is there within reach and it is there that we must overcome the selfish interests of individual countries, overcome the interests of position income and develop the European economic policy that can make our continent truly energy efficient. Only in this way, only by developing these strategies, will we be able to give a positive response to future generations, who are essentially asking us for two things. In our view, these are two goods that must go hand in hand: the maintenance of high standards of living and livability, but also a high standard of quality of life in full respect of the guarantees and non-negotiable values represented by the protection of the environment, nature and health. I am convinced that technologies allow it today, but I am also convinced that only strong policies at central level can produce these results. We therefore confirm our trust. We will vote on the majority's motion for a resolution which is convinced that, once again, our country will be the protagonist in Europe and the world. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u77	GIROTTO (M5S). Colleagues, in the coming days the European Council will be called upon to take a final decision on climate and energy, an issue of extreme interest that is addressed by all the states of the world within the UN which, with the Fifth IPCC Report (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) at the end of 2013, have clearly identified in human activities the reasons for global warming defined unequivocal. The European Union has long responded strongly to climate change mitigation and adaptation demands both through emission reduction measures and their 20-20-20 targets and through a strategy to increase resilience in the face of the most frequent and intense extreme weather events, as recently indicated by the European Environment Agency (EEA) report. Italy also formally takes note of these urgent needs with the National Strategy for adaptation to climate change officially recognizing the problem. Before these truths, your Government, President Renzi, takes a contradictory and embarrassing position for us. Recognize, that is, the existence and the disastrous effects of climate change, but do not act on the causes that feed them; indeed, throw gasoline on the fire (last example, unlock Italy), promoting the use of fossil sources that are climatic and hindered the policies of adaptation and mitigation reducing in the market the competition of renewable sources and energy efficiency. In fact, as far as your intention to double oil stations is concerned - I would like to say to the Italians who, I hope, follow us on the Internet, since you may not follow - I remember that all the technicians and chemists agree that the quality of Italian oil is poor. [[The President of the Council Renzi leaves the Chamber. Applause and ironic comments from Senator Paglini.]] I thank President Renzi for his attention. Why should foreign companies then come to Italy to extract? Perhaps because the combined tax- royalty is favorable to such companies? It is a reflection on which I hope you will dwell. As regards renewable energy, you, President-in-Office of the Council - absent - said a few minutes ago: "We have missed the opportunity to create an industrial supply chain..." But do you realize that your own government is continuing a depression operation in this sector? Were you at the Solarexpo in Milan a few months ago? I've been there all three days, and as I don't see her now, I haven't even seen her on that occasion. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u78	I do not want to defend the President-in-Office of the Council but, having been here since 9.30, perhaps he needed to move.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u79	GIROTTO (M5S). Randomly. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u81	Anyway, there are two ministers. GIROTTO (M5S). Yes, but please take away the time of these interruptions from the time available to me. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, you are also pursuing it in words, but in fact not, both because of the lack of several implementing decrees that are necessary, and above all because of the incredible bureaucratic complexity and, worse still, because of the contrast and discrepancy between several different rules governing this matter. In essence, Mr Renzi, we are still. Designers and architects don't know how to behave. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They do not know how to behave and how to apply the rules because they are conflicting and incomprehensible to each other. So, if you really want to support the green jobs, as you said a few days ago pompously at the UN, these inconsistencies need to be resolved immediately and then, of course, the ecobonus stabilized for the next few years to enable companies and consumers to finally make a mid-term programming. President, you had to talk about energy today. Ten days ago, the European Commission presented the study on energy subsidies and costs in Europe, where for the first time a comprehensive and unified picture of public intervention in the energy sector was presented. From this study emerges a framework in which renewable energies are not at all encouraged and supported by the public sector compared to fossil incentives. On the contrary, they are assisted, in addition to direct subsidies, including indirect subsidies, consisting of not having to pay the negative externalities determined, namely the impact on the climate, the impoverishment of resources, the effects on human health, damage quantified by a study (repeat, not of the 5 Star Movement, but of the European Union) for an amount between 150 and 310 billion euros only in 2012. In a year we give fossil fuels between 150 and 300 billion euros. Now President Cucchetti, his party colleague, has asked you to introduce a carbon tax. Please, if you don't want to listen to me, at least listen to him. If we really want to support the industrial supply chain, we must propose ambitious and binding climate and energy targets to Europe, to embark on the new path of energy transition and sustainability, as this would postulate the creation of many jobs, since renewables and efficiency are, as we know, much more intensive labour than fossils. Here too, I would like to recall a statement by Europe on the costs of transition and decarbonisation, according to which these are virtually identical to the costs of normal network development as it is at present. Madam President, in the hope that the time available to me has been cut off during the breaks, I shall skip the part of the intervention relating to the economy. President Renzi, you are addressing Italians as innovator and scraper. If you really want to convince us of this - and I am still addressing the Italians - since you have the Presidency-in-Office of the European Council, then let us tackle the problem of tax havens. Why do companies have to pay up to 70% of taxation while the vast majority of banks have tax offices in Luxembourg? What banks don't pay taxes, the rest of the Italians pay it, and it's not 80 euros at the job. The vast majority of banks have tax offices in Luxembourg. Why do we have to pay their taxes? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For these reasons, Mr Renzi, our motion for a resolution commits you to promoting binding climate and energy targets in the European Council, which I summarize here: 55% of greenhouse gas emissions, 50% of renewable energy sources and 40% of energy efficiency. It also commits it to promoting an amendment to the European economic stabilisation agreements (with a clear revision of the intergovernmental agreement, better known as fiscal compact, which then allows Parliament to amend the Constitution by removing the constraint of balance of budget) and to establish a single system of indebtedness through the so-called Eurobonds, with the provision of jointly and severally guaranteed guarantees by all Member States, by giving up the establishment of the European Redemption Fund. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u84	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my fellow Senators, growth, economic development, energy issues, GDP, the fight against unemployment, rising levels of education, up to Ebola, the crisis in Ukraine and Russia and ISIS; beyond the regency of the Presidency of the European Semester that Italy, so far of an exquisitely symbolic nature, will be all these reflections present in the international chessboard during the examination of the summit. Will the natural rotation of the European Commission with the change of leather and armchairs be a turning point, as you assured, Mr Renzi, to rewrite the structure, the institutional structure, the fundamental principles of the European order and above all of the economy, or is it just a faint future projection that does not take into account a stalemate present? Mr President, the acceleration your Government wanted to make on structural reforms is only a manifestation of intent, and it did not represent a real change of pace in the national economic recovery. We are in a duty to complete the reforms announced by a constructive parliamentary debate, which is so far barren, and without resorting to the escamotage of the votes of confidence. The data presented by the Government in the Update Note of the 2015 Economy and Finance Document confirm that the Italian economy did not pass the recession phase. With lower GDP growth compared to the country's estimates and lacked structural reforms, there is a real risk that the deficit will exceed as much as 3% in 2015. Environment and energy policies are thriving in order to emerge from stagnation and strategic priorities widely dealt with by my colleagues Piccoli and Tarquinio and by those who preceded me. How, however, can we combine the announcements made on the green job today with current economic data and link growth and safeguard of our ecosystem? That is why, Mr Renzi, economic recovery must be carried out through energy policies for growth and employment and with investments for environmental protection and embankments for the hydrogeological failure that cannot be counted in the Stability Pact, as requested yesterday in the debate on hydrogeological failure and as will be repeated again this evening in the continuation of the debate and with the presentation of motions. That is what we are going to ask Europe through it. European economic policy and, above all, austerity policies are not helping us out of the crisis and we cannot achieve the commitments of the Europe 2020 policy strategy if we continue to act with wrong actions and solutions. If we look at the targets that we should pursue by 2020, we are at the last place for the percentage of young people under 35 years of age with a degree (such as us, only Romania); we are among the states that allocate the lowest amount of private public resources for research and development, with 1.5% of GDP compared to 3% in Europe; our expected employment rate for 2020 is only higher than that of Croatia. The comparison between the 28 Member States of the Union, compared to indicators relating to human capital, research and development activities and the labour market, shows a dramatic gap between our country and almost all other European nations. A two-speed Europe emerges with concern, not one in which growth and development are uniformly spread across Member States. Can we consider this scenario to be a limit of European policies alone or should we not also seek responsibilities in our own home? In the employment sector, action is needed to reduce labour shortages and to delocalise production. Businesses find it more convenient to transfer production where there is a more facilitated tax regime, lower labour costs, lower taxation, streamlined and essential bureaucracy and efficient justice. The President of the Council seems to be aware of all the concerns of the Italian system. The underlying problem is that there is a discrepancy between its many wave ads and the final result. With today's debate, at international level, we want to reiterate once again the role of Forza Italia, with the commitment of President Berlusconi as the main interlocutor, in the Russia-Ukraine affair. Berlusconi himself, in 2002, with the agreement of Practice of the Sea, was the one who broke the chains of the Cold War. At this historic moment, when the terrorist threats coming from ISIS become increasingly concrete and destabilising, Forza Italia realizes that it would be a serious mistake to open up a front with a friendly country, with which we should instead be in close contact to face Islamic extremism. And it is on ISIS that I only want to spend a minute, Madam President. Our President Romani and Senator Mauro, a few days ago, conducted a mission in Kurdistan, where they saw the state of progress of the war of the caliphate. Our Group presents to the Government the proposal to realize a Campo Italia near Erbil able to welcome 10,000 refugees for a total expenditure between 8 and 10 million euros. I'm just beginning to conclude, just talking about Ebola lately. We have learned from the President-in-Office that there will be a single European authority with directing tasks, and we can only welcome this. However, Mr President, we would like Europe to change very much, especially from an economic point of view. Some countries like France have had the courage to forcefully call for a reversal of the European policies adopted so far. We hope that you will be able to implement what has been planned this semester... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .that are directed towards the economy and growth, as you mentioned in your speech this morning, of the European Community. That's what we expect. As far as the vote is concerned, we certainly cannot support, as the majority has done, a blank delegation which does not include commitments or priorities for its speech on 23 and 24 October. We hope it will be a truly effective intervention for Europe and a positive one for our national system. However, we would have liked to see greater support for the issues represented in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group. We regret that you have taken only a few ideas, but, Mr President, we cannot vote on a blank delegation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u87	Martini (PD). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution because we share the European spirit and also the effort to innovate the course of this Europe, contained in its communication. The main aspect seemed to me to be the connection, stated and aware, between the major issues: energy and sustainability, geopolitics, economic growth, reforms. This connection is precious and must always be present to all of us, because it is the heart of the problem, beyond our many provincial and self-referential discussions. We share the Italian position to maintain maximum ambitions on energy issues. This synthesis seems to me to enclose the famous motto "Enough the word", maximum ambitions, as well as continuing to make growth the central theme of our work. This is the essential objective of getting out of the recession and rebuilding a relationship of trust with citizens, an issue that is all too often underestimated in the European issue. Economic data are worrying, much worse than American, Japanese and many other countries. The new data for Germany will soon arrive and a second consecutive quarter with negative GDP is expected. Nor does the de facto devaluation of the euro against the dollar support German exports. International markets are too weakened to absorb production that has not entered the internal market. This data is the starting point for us, and it's no accident, of course. There has been a policy, that of one-way austerity, and a vision of Europe, that of minimal Europe, which is the basis of many of these realities. Today we need another policy, which I believe is outlined in the communication, which promotes a general dynamism, because, although monetary policy has achieved a great deal, it is not enough. Rapid action is needed to tackle youth unemployment, which reduces debt by the right way. Without growth it suffers the same sustainability as public debt. The proposals are there. She remembered them. We need more political will, more political decision. The role of the ECB can become even stronger; we can also activate public investment in order to stimulate the economy with common European resources, make better use of the funds allocated, implement the 300 billion additional public and private investments in the real economy for the next three years, liven up the EIB's action. This does not mean, of course, neglecting the debt and the obligation to return. The rigour of the accounts is not a claim of Europe, but it is first and foremost our requirement, in order not to undermine the future of the country and also because it is part - I want to emphasize it - of that moral and social renewal of Italy that we extremely need. It is a commitment that must also feel the healthy and living forces of the country: the enterprises, the unions and the world of culture, starting from a public expenditure healed, certainly not cut in an uncritical way, but refurbished. But this is something else from the ideology of austerity to one-way. Growth does not come from obsession with debt. Mr President, you said that tomorrow, after ten years of President Barroso, you will move on. I think that we need to move on not only from the point of view of institutional structures, but also from a certain conception of Europe's role. Let us move more on the investment side, as we have already said, and of course also on the reform side. I think the transition to reforms is important. It could serve - and it could also be a new idea at European level - a Community mechanism providing incentives to speed up reforms, in the face of serious commitments from governments and the maintenance of time programmes. To conclude, this seems to me to be the right synthesis: growth, intelligent rigour, reforms. So we help the united Europe and we play our part. You have concluded your speech by claiming the role of Europe in Italy, because it is nothing else from us - and I believe that this is right - but also our role. I think it also depends on this, on the ability to propose a correct synthesis. We do not challenge Europe, but we ask and urge a new, not dogmatically formal reading of the situation, the use of a higher and richer political, economic and fiscal responsibility, as well as a higher political, economic and fiscal rationality. We are concerned about division and ineffectiveness but we see the space to change. We need a new spirit, a revival of a high and ambitious vision. And a new policy is needed, capable of uniting. This policy cannot be one-way austerity, nor can it be indifference to deficit. Italy proposes the right mix, which can produce even more social justice, less inequality and more quality in growth. I finish where I started: the link between energy issues and growth, which also makes us say that there is growth and growth. Sure, better a growth than nothing. But there is a difference between many different models, and not all are virtuous: the theme of quality of development is part of the theme of the new Europe. We discussed floods, soil protection and the protection of citizens' safety for a long time yesterday. That is the link from which you have started and which we want to make the most of. For all these reasons, the Senators and Senators of the PD will vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u88	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u91	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to make a point of order with regard to the admissibility of the documents that we are now going to vote on, in particular the motion for a resolution No 1. Beyond the fact that I believe that - even if it is now customary - we must review our rule whereby we are allowed to present a resolution with the famous incipit "Hear the Government's communications, which are usually made a week later (in fact, I believe that our Rules and our practice should be updated, because something is not working), in my opinion the motion for a resolution No 1 is inadmissible because it came with a fax at 13.15 on 15 October. Our Rules of Procedure, Rule 105, presuppose the possibility of tabling a motion for a resolution on the fact that eight senators require a separate debate and that this request is made in writing. At 1.15 p.m. there was no request for a debate and no motion for a resolution was tabled without a separate debate. Do not tell me that everything was taken for granted by the group leader, because the minutes of 12:44 p.m., which were read in the Chamber on that same day, show the following: On Wednesday 22, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council of 24 October. I know because I asked for it. So it is true that at 8.20 p.m., with your own presidency, you read in the Chamber at the end of the sitting: In addition to what has already been communicated to the Assembly this morning, I would warn you that, as agreed by the Conference of Leaders, after the President of the Council of Ministers' communications on the European Council scheduled for Wednesday 22 October, a debate will follow which can be concluded with the vote on motions for resolutions. It is therefore clear to everyone that the request for any debate had not yet been formalised at 1.15 p.m. and therefore the motion for a resolution could not be received. I say this because I submitted the request for a debate myself at 4 p.m., signed by eight senators and, at the request of the Offices, it was made clear to me that it was the first and only request for a debate that had been tabled. The 13:15, then, as far as I'm concerned, was inadmissible. Then there is a second point as to whether the document is admissible or not. I am quite perplexed, because if I take motion for a resolution No 1, it appears that the signatures have been affixed by the same person, even to a blind person. I would have hoped, because it is customary, that at least the first signature, that is, the one necessary for the presentation of a document, would be authentic. I therefore took the trouble to verify the documents presented during the discussion of the DEF Update Note and there is no signature that coincides with that of the document that we are putting to the vote today. You will tell me that the Presidency is not required to verify the authenticity of the signatures. If that is not known, but it is in the newspaper today, so at this point, I wonder if it is not appropriate to go into it. How to overcome the problem? At least, in view of the evidence that this proposal has been written by someone else, ask the signatories of motion for a resolution No 1 that they have agreed to the so-called false permit, or that they have given a mandate to someone to sign it on their behalf but that they still have the will to sign the motion for a resolution. All this leads me to request from the authors of the motion for a resolution that they consent to the fact that this is their signature or, on the other hand, that they acknowledge today that they have given their own collaborator a mandate to sign it. Whether the signatures are genuine or not I don't know, but if they are true these means that last week we approved a fake in a public act. Before proceeding to the vote, I would ask you to consider the admissibility of the motion for a resolution in the absence of the request for a debate and, in any case, it is an absolute condition for anyone to tell us whether this act has appeared by chance or is wanted by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Susta, Romano and Zeller. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u94	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, at the end of the debate, I brought a bunch of new cards this morning, because I have now quite understood that when dealing with our President-in-Office of the Council, the cards are almost always rigged. [[Applause from the League and M5S Groups. Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u95	We are dealing with a point of order, Senator Di Maggio.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u96	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, the parliamentary regulations are rigged, which animate or should animate our parliamentary debate; they are the reforms that are beyond fulfillment and which are always announced; they are rigged, indeed, the accounts of our state are very rigged! [[Applause from Senator Lezzi]] But the fact that the cards we are looking at in this House were finally rigged also means, and I point this out to your presidency, that if you endorse this behavior, rigged can be tomorrow the cards in the courts, rigged can be the cards tomorrow in the prefectures, rigged can be tomorrow the cards in the barracks of the Carabinieri. I would therefore ask you, as this is a formal complaint, to decide whether this document can be put to the vote or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani, Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u97	Senator Calderoli, you are a master of the Rules of Procedure, so you know, with regard to Rule 105 that you invoked first, that by established practice is put back to the Conference of the Leaders the choice to configure the intervention of the Government as mere information to which it follows the debate alone, or as real communications, to which you can follow the vote of instruments of direction, and this happened at the Conference of the Leaders of the Group of 15 October last, which unanimously agreed to schedule today's speech by the President as communications of the Government in order to allow the submission of motions for resolutions. As for the second point, I am pleased with your qualities as an expert calligrapher, so there is a future in this sense, but, also here, these signatures are not contested or disowned, because the news that appears in the newspaper that you mention evidently had a source and a verification was made and confirmed the subscription of this document. Any further investigation, therefore, can be made by the Presidency for established practices where there is a dispute by the subscribers. So the matter is so clear, I am sorry, Mr Calderoli. [[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene.]] Please say quickly. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I am sorry, Madam President, I did not understand whether you are telling me that the paternity of signatures has already been established, and so we can proceed to the vote, i.e. whether you intend to proceed with the verification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall assume the authenticity of the signatures until proven otherwise. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, no, Madam President, I am not telling you to ascertain everything that goes around: I bring you two documents that are co-signed by the same people and you cannot assume that the signatures are genuine. Ask those directly concerned who are present. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is no calligraphic expertise unless there is evidence, even from the subscribers, of the non-authenticity of the signatures. This is the established practice. If there were a dispute on the part of the signatories, then checks would be carried out. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Is this a assent silence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to consider this a matter for the Presidency. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The Presidency must tell us whether the documents, since the signatories are present, are signed or not by the presenters. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] They are currently confirmed by the presenters. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). That's it, that's it. After that the matter is no longer the subject of this House, but of other fora. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is understood that the request for electronic voting also extends to subsequent motions for resolutions. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Paolo Romani and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 7 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). That concludes the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-336.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
