ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. [[Applause at the address of Senator Secretary Volpi.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on matters relating to initiatives and models for the enhancement of cultural heritage and to interventions to promote the tourism sector, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about initiatives and models for the enhancement of cultural heritage. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u6	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Minister, I would like to know, and I would like to ask you the following question, whether and how you intend to follow up on motion 182 on support for candidate cities in the European Capital of Culture 2019 and on the Italy 2019 programme, promoted by the Association of Cities of Art and Culture and the ANCI, in order to carry out the projects contained in the dossiers of the 18 candidate cities. As you may be aware, the motion at my first signature received very broad and cross-cutting parliamentary membership and was unanimously approved by the Senate on 28 January. In particular, Minister, I would ask you to understand whether there is a willingness of the Government to address this issue in the context of the parliamentary examination of the bill of conversion of the recent decree-law on the protection of the cultural heritage for the development of culture and the relaunch of tourism, and therefore if there is an opportunity to run the projects that the cities, with the involvement of so many promoters, have realized, and that they are ready to implement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u9	DI GIORGI (PD). Minister, the recent decree-law on culture and tourism sets up a new and different system for the management of cultural heritage and entertainment activities. The art-bonus, in fact, regulates and stimulates the involvement of private individuals, through the tax credit in favour of liberal donations in culture and intervenes on the long-standing issue of works on cultural goods, with a series of simplifications, for now provided for the sole site of Pompeii. Last, in this decree, but not for importance, are the norms that put hand to the tourism sector, filling some legislative gaps and stimulating the innovation and the qualitative increase of the offer, and that put at the center the wider question of the improvement of the levels of protection and valorization diffused in our Country: these are issues repeatedly addressed in our parliamentary discussions. In our opinion, these new initiatives must be matched by a more efficient and effective administrative system, and therefore the reorganization of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism can be an opportunity to be seized. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, with what means you intend to proceed towards the reorganization of the Dicastery and whether and how Parliament will be involved, and in particular the 7th Permanent Commission, which and how many will be the Directorates-General in the new organization, what fate will have the fundamental field of valorization, which at this time we believe to be central, and how we intend to regulate the relationship between Regional Directorates and Territorial Superintendence, with a view to streamlining the procedures and rationalization of the location of human resources on the territories, which, especially among the ranks of technical, scientific and administrative staff, suffer from an now endemic scarcity, aggravated by the retirements planned in the coming years. Of course, we believe that, if we do not put an urgent hand to the situation, through new competitions, it will only get worse.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u12	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, cultural goods can and must constitute the new horizon of policies for the promotion and use of the material and intangible heritage of the country. We must seriously and serenely make a change and, certainly, a change of pace: to be residual and decorative, cultural assets will have to find full attention, full support from the Government and all the institutions that at the central level and the regions and local authorities are concerned with the common good and collective growth. In this way, Article 9 of the Italian Constitution will be fully implemented, which, in establishing the protection of works of art and landscape, implicitly encourages their use to raise the level of education of the national and universal community. Does the Government consider it necessary to put in hand a careful analysis of the sector, starting with a reorganization of the Ministry, rationalizing and using the resources that may be saved, in order to re-employ them in favor of the valorization of the Italian cultural heritage? Does the Government want to take on the expectations of the citizens who, having finally matured sensitivity and knowledge, would look favorably to the reformative action of the sector, through a less bureaucratic load and more valorization, less intermediate passages and more direct use of the goods for the purpose of education, in order to facilitate the tourist flows? In this regard, I do not hesitate to say that the Superintendence must not be abolished, but requalified, slimmed down, staffed - particularly young - able to have knowledge of the cause, civil passion, propensity to the extraordinary gift of providing the right information. I also believe that I should like to call for a redevelopment and re-evaluation of the valuable historical figures of the Honorary Inspectors in the Municipalities. As well as it will be significant that the MIBACT is promoted at the MIUR of the institution of the high school specialized in cultural goods, in order to prepare qualified human resources in the field, that they overcome the pernicious gap that today is registered in the employed staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u15	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, first of all I wonder whether it is possible to discuss the financing and management of cultural heritage without labels and commonplaces and without the rhetoric that has characterized the debate in recent years. On the one hand, we have California of Italy, the best business card, the only and true clean energy; then we read, in the new decree culture, that many of the cultural assets should still be commissioners. You, Minister, said that what they do in Paris we could do, more and better, in Italy. But how? Despite the value-culture decree, Pompeii continues to collapse. Are we sure that the path of the police stations is the best and pragmatically the most appropriate one to solve the problems? There are smaller realities or, to say the least, more limited ones that represent real excellences, that have been able to exploit European funding, value themselves and trigger a virtuous circle; others are completely abandoned. Is it possible to establish agreements at local level, for example with municipalities, which could also be reimbursed by the State through ad hoc tax deductions, for works for the safekeeping, conservation and maintenance of cultural objects? Article 1 of the first title of the decree in question to the Chamber inserts a pejorative norm regarding TUIR, which in the matter of liberal disbursements offered to legal persons (i.e. to the companies) the entire deduction on the basis of the taxable. For what purpose is it to equate natural and legal persons, if for one it expands and for the other it shrinks?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u18	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, the area of Tuvixeddu in Cagliari represents the most important Punic-Roman sepulchral surface, with uses up to the Middle Ages and over 2,300 sepulchral environments of extreme importance. As is well known, it is the subject of two separate programme agreements signed between the Region, the Municipality and the private sector in 2000, a long dispute, which to some extent reduces the possibility of valorization and protection. I wonder, Minister, if it is possible to introduce some procedural elements that allow the Ministry, the Region and the Municipality to set up a coordination table for the identification of the necessary solutions, that are able to foresee every type of address, including also the possibility of acquiring to the public heritage of the burial area and an adequate range of respect for an effective protection and valorization of the cultural good, which is unique in the Mediterranean and is therefore unique in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u21	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, the protection, restoration and enhancement of all Italian cultural heritage is an operation that the State can no longer carry out only by its own strength. The situation is before everyone's eyes, with abandoned sites and certainly not valued. The example of Pompeii is clear: we have European funds and we cannot restore the most important archaeological area in the world, not even with the help of local authorities blocked by the Stability Pact, which - alas - would like to enhance their monuments, but they fail. This results in a continuous deterioration of the monuments and a drastic drop in visitors, even foreigners. For example, we have museums and archaeological areas with less than one visitor per month. We believe that three actions are essential. Firstly, the involvement of individuals in the sponsorship of restorations of works of art and monuments. Secondly, the involvement of private individuals in the management of museum, archaeological and monumental sites, freeing resources to public bodies in compliance with the protection of the property granted. Thirdly, the release of the Stability Pact for the recovery of endangered monuments, perhaps in a list specifically agreed with the Ministry. At this point, what do we ask you? We ask you what initiatives you intend to take in a short time, perhaps already when examining Decree-Law No 83, to reconcile the reasons for efficiency with those of equity, possibly paving the way for the use of public and private partnership contracts in relation to the cultural good.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u24	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, I would like to say that the multimedia tactile pole is a museum reality born in 2008 as a natural subsidiary of the Braille Regional Stampery, which was founded in 1978, in order to contribute to the social and cultural integration of the visually impaired, particularly in the Mediterranean area. Recognizing the relevant cultural value of these bodies, the law of stability for 2014 has provided, in paragraph 277, a state funding for the year 2014 alone of 800,000 euros to be allocated to the multimedia tactile pole. To this end, the Italian Library for the Blind, Queen Margherita, should conclude a special agreement with the multimedia tactile pole of the Braille ONLUS Regional Stampery in Catania. To date, it appears that this convention has not yet been signed, despite the respect of the new norms and the prompt preparation of the necessary documentation by the tactile Pole, it seems due to difficulties put up by the Library "Regina Margherita" who does not believe that he has any legal obligation to its subscription. It is asked whether the Minister does not consider it appropriate to ascertain at the Library "Regina Margherita" the reasons for not signing the aforementioned convention with the multimedia tactile pole, also in view of the damage that is being done to this cultural reality and also, evidently following the presentation of the necessary documents, to include the multimedia tactile pole of the Braille Stampery, unique in Europe, in the list of cultural entities financed under paragraphs 382-384 of Article 1 of Law No 147 of 27 December 2013 (Stability Act for 2014) or, where appropriate, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 32, of Law No 448 of 28 December 2001.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u27	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, Minister, the fact that Italy is shrinking from the point of view of tourist attraction, for the benefit of other nations in the Mediterranean basin, such as Greece, Spain and Croatia, is now an established fact. But there is more: the tourist flow within the national territory seems unbalanced, as visitors follow the route Venice-Florence-Rome, crowding and therefore in some cases making life unsustainable in those cities. On the other hand, Campania, together with Sicily, contains the largest number of UNESCO sites and 33% of all the cultural heritage that is located in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Taillight - and, believe me, it is not a fact of duty-free belt - is the province of Caserta, that is the Palace of Caserta, which counts only 4 percent of the total visitors. Comparing the Palace of Caserta to Versailles means already operating a deminutio, and knowing that this is visited only by 4 percent of all tourists who arrive in Italy discourages us. On the other hand, the recent acquisition, very opportune, that Minister Bray, his predecessor, made the Real site of Carditello, to take it away from the ruins and vandalisms, comforts us, but also makes the appropriate appropriations and interventions extremely necessary so that these sites, such as the Real site of San Leucio, the Reggia of Caserta and the Real site of Carditello, can be started to intercept the tourist currents. There is a parking lot under the Palace of Caserta, delivered by the Municipality a few years ago. I invite you to visit him, because he is a bivouac of manipoli. Make infrastructure workable and usable at least. Perhaps this too can help to make more tourists come.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u30	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, the decision to restore the archaeological remains that came to light during the construction of the parking lot in Via Giulia, near Piazza della Moretta, in Rome has been stirred up: a necessary measure, according to the Director-General of MIBAC for Lazio, when there is insufficient funds for other protection works. What has happened in these days is, in my opinion, the metaphor of a system that works badly, where one favours leaving, literally, an enviable archaeological discovery, rather than finding alternative solutions of protection. One hypothesis, perhaps the only one, remains that of a regulated involvement of private individuals, also in order to attract to the sector the capital itself, overcoming the ideological and regulatory barriers that still condition this perspective. The question therefore arises as to whether, and in what way, the role of individuals in the valorisation of cultural heritage is to intervene in the regulatory discipline in order to put in place, in a transparent and complete manner, a system which, abroad, is particularly virtuous. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Franceschini, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Unfortunately, there is little time to answer a number of questions, each of which deserves all the time available. I try to be synthetic, and I hope I don't forget anything. Senator Lanzillotta, the Government absolutely shares (in addition to being obliged to respect a parliamentary motion, however voted unanimously) that the extraordinary heritage of design, creation and identification of a design (which does not concern the recovery of a single monument or a single cultural activity, but overall a city) and the work that has been done for the candidacies of European Capital of Culture should not be dispersed, neither among the six cities that are still in competition, nor among the 18 initially candidates. Therefore, I believe that a seat could actually be the conversion of the so-called decree culture, to understand, beyond a shared idea, what the tools and - of course - resources can be. I would add that - and I would invite on this to make a reflection among the parliamentary groups - the procedure of the European Capital of Culture concluded and identified a mechanism to enhance the cities that have not won, but participated in that selection procedure, the identification of an Italian Capital of Culture (it has also been discussed in the past), with a periodicity and with resources to be defined, would certainly put in motion the same virtuous mechanism, that is, an incentive to compete through total projects that concern the extraordinary heritage of Italian cities of art and villages. It is such a unique heritage, so this mechanism can be reproduced in Italy, but it is difficult to reproduce in other countries. So, I think that, in perspective, alongside the European Capital of Culture, an Italian Capital of Culture could be an interesting tool that uses that virtuosity. With regard to the reorganization of the Ministry, I tried to start this work, first with the decree culture, then with a regulatory framework that allows to intervene in an innovative way - then taking back some themes - in the field of culture and tourism. Of course, the second step on which we are now working is the theme of the Ministry's reorganization. The Ministry is a two-speed machine, because it is a very complex machine: there is the part of cultural goods, which must be reformed and modernized, and then there is the part tourism, which has been aggregated with law (so permanently) and which is instead totally to be re-founded. For this reason, in the tourism sector we have foreseen the overcoming of Promuovi Italia and the Commission of ENIT, to resume an engaging form the Regions especially in the promotion abroad (to end with this history of the distinct promotion Region by Region, which no longer holds in the global world), involving the Regions already from now, waiting for the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. At the same time, on the cultural side, there is a need for a thorough territorial and central review. I'm really going for titles. I think we need to re-examine the composition of the Regional and Superintendence Directorates. I think that the Regional Directorates should return to what they were imagined for, i.e. not overlapping bodies, but coordinating bodies mainly with administrative and not technical functions, for which the Superintendences exist. However, I will have to reduce the second-tier managers by 32 posts, because this is a rule already foreseen in the spending review. This will involve immediate intervention in the matter of amalgamation of Superintendences, because they must be reduced in number, since they are second-class managers. Within this process, I think that the part of the national structure should also be renewed, within which I believe very much in a 'value-raising' of the value of tourism, especially now that we have integrated in the Ministry the competences of tourism. I also think that there are two sectors that have been blamefully neglected, while they deserved important recognition, The first is education, and therefore the whole relationship with public education, because culture education begins at school (to this end last week I signed a first convention with the Ministry of School, University and Research). I think we need a place where we can invest intellectual and economic resources to educate culture. The second sector is investment in art, contemporary architecture and urban suburbs, because we are a country that rightly invests in protection, having an extraordinary heritage to protect, but that must also look to the future. After all, the Colosseum or the Sistine Chapel are contemporary art. We can also support the protection of the great talents in the country. This is in response to Senator Di Giorgi and the other senators who have asked questions of the same tenor. I now turn to Senator Liuzzi. I absolutely agree with the high schools specializing in cultural heritage and we made a commitment with Minister Giannini to re-introduce the history of art where it was removed and to enhance it where it was reduced: it was a mistake, and mistakes can be corrected. I also think it is absolutely acceptable that the Superintendences, as I have just said, should not be abolished, but modernised and valued. If there is an error of some superintendent it is the error of a superintendent, and not the proof of an overtaken instrument. The Superintendences apply Article 9 of the Constitution: they can do so in a modern and dynamic way or in a wrong way, but it is not the instrument that needs to be called into question. I also think it is absolutely right - and I am pleased, because the emphasis is in support of one of my battles - that the resources that are saved remain in the individual Ministry. In fact, if my Ministry cut on rents, since the state archives cost about 20 million a year of rents, trying to move the archives into state property, and the resources saved did not stay in the Ministry to be reinvested, for example, in the archives sector, but ended up in the general budget, this would obviously have a discouraging effect, I absolutely agree. Senator Uras, the area of Tuvixeddu is a wonderful place, which also has the characteristic of being in an urban area. There have been problems between the different competences and I agree with the idea of setting up a table that puts everyone around, the various Superintendences - because there are different aspects of protection - and the other bodies of the public administration, to enhance the site. To Senator Centinario and the other senators who have taken up the theme I want to say that, personally, I have the satisfaction of arriving here not with a commitment - because at the beginning of the mandate it is possible to get away with a commitment, after all the government is not even three months old - but with a result. It is a result that previous governments have tried to achieve and for economic reasons they have not made it. We have taken a real break with the public-private relationship, because we have introduced the so-called art-bonus, which is a formidable tax incentive. I address Senator Serra in particular: it is not true that the incentive is less, it is much greater. In fact, before there was a deduction for companies of only about 22-27 percent, now both companies and private individuals who will intervene with donations intended for the recovery of public assets (and therefore not only state, but also municipal), whether they donations of 100 euros or a million euros, will have a tax credit of 65 percent in three years. We think that the eco-bonus, which has had an extraordinary result, is deductible in ten years, while here we are talking about three years. If the following year another donation is made, you are entitled to a new tax credit for a further three years. It is therefore clear that, as has been recognised in general, this will put us before the other European countries, after we have been taillights for many years. I think it is a very virtuous mechanism, which will act on the relationship with the private and will enable us to have a collaboration with the municipalities as well. I met the mayors. We are setting up a permanent table between the mayors and the Ministry because the offer to tourists and the recovery of the heritage must be made independently of the property. UNESCO rightly calls our patrimony "World Heritage": it doesn't matter if it is of the State or of a municipality; it doesn't even interest the tourist if a museum is municipal or state. Recovery must really be done in a synergistic relationship. So, and back to Senator Centinario, we're already working on private involvement. I think that in perspective we can also reason on the management starting from non-profit entities and not replacing the State; if the latter is not able to do so for some sites, the FAI or other non-profit entities can do it. Let's work. Senator Berger, the multimedia tactile pole is a great operation. Unfortunately it is true, there have been difficulties in relation to the Library for the Blinds "Regina Margherita" (Regina Margherita). The Ministry summoned them and asked for the documentation. The delay is due solely to the fact that the documentation was not sent to the Ministry. We also promoted a meeting between the two bodies on 30 May. Despite this meeting wanted by the Ministry, there has not yet been an agreement between the two bodies. We'll keep pushing for them to find her. I now come to the Palace of Caserta. I absolutely agree on tourism in the South: it is madness that with the potential of our Mezzogiorno only 15% of foreign tourists go south of Rome. In this scheme there is a precise project of valorization of the Palace of Caserta. In the decree there is a very important rule that provides for the appointment of a single commissioner. I say this to Senator Serra because we have not touched anything on Pompeii because the previous rules are valid and there has been only an acceleration of the procedures, there is therefore no new figure. In Caserta instead it was indispensable because 20 percent of the Reggia is occupied by the museum and 80 percent is occupied by a number of other bodies such as the Aeronautica, the High School of Public Administration, the seat of the rectorate. The Commissioner has the task of agreeing in six months all the administrations for the Reggia to be fully restored to its museum function. For Carditello's Palace there is already a funding of 3 million. It is a first step consistent with Minister Bray's willingness to buy it. Then we'll need the resources to renovate it. I already replied to Senator Di Biagio about the private bonus. In conclusion, I really think that, on the basis of what has been done with the so-called decree culture and with the improvements that the Government will be able to make, for cultural goods in Italy will be able to start a new page. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u34	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I thank the Minister. I am satisfied and confident that this willingness will be followed up in the course of the parliamentary examination. I believe that this would be an initiative consistent with the direction that the President-in-Office of the Council has repeatedly expressed, which has indicated cities as a flywheel for economic recovery and as places of innovation and creativity. That is why I think it is urgent to start a comparison with the cities that have expressed their design, a comparison that they have urged. This urgency also stems from the fact that, as the programming of European funds for 2014-2020 is being discussed, it would be very useful to integrate both national and European resources into this purpose and into the implementation of these project packages. As for the decision that you, Minister, announced to set up the Italian City of Culture, it is welcome, but let us take an example from others to exploit these opportunities with proper planning, and not just to make ceremonies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u37	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I too am very pleased with the answer, because I am in complete agreement with the strategies of your Ministry and with what you have proposed here. The issue of education is very interesting, and therefore the protocol with the MIUR, which I consider to be of enormous value for the work within the schools for the education of the culture of our young people. There's a couple of issues with the reorganization you were talking about. Thinking of implementing a spending review within this Ministry makes your veins and wrists a little tremble, because we believe that we would need many new investments, first of all with regard to staff: I think new competitions are necessary, because we know the shortage of staff, but I am convinced that you will be very attentive to this area. There is also a need for renewal, new professionalism, and therefore new impulses with respect to this. As far as the Commission's involvement is concerned, on which it has not responded, we expect... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u40	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, I am satisfied, and I am quite happy that the analysis and proposals of Minister Franceschini are in line with what I have requested. In particular, I wish the Minister well with regard to the reorganization of the Ministry. It is a rather articulated and certainly complex path, which will also need strong tenacity. I am equally pleased with the attention devoted to the re-introduction in the courses of study of the history of art as an important subject for the completion of the curriculum of the students, and also the upcoming institution of the high school of cultural heritage. In conclusion - perhaps he forgot, but I know that it is certainly for his attention - it would be necessary to re-evaluate the figures of the honorary inspectors for cultural goods in every Italian city.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u43	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's reply, but I am rather concerned, because the cultural heritage we have in our territory must be safeguarded in its entirety. I hope that, as has been done for the Palace of Carditello, we can also act for the Palace of Caserta, which needs to be safeguarded in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u46	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I welcome the Minister's reply and the announced establishment of a coordination table, which we believe should also be a permanent observatory in that area which is particularly sensitive. We know that Cagliari is a finalist as the European Capital of Culture 2019. It would therefore be important to solve some problems regarding the archaeological park, which was also recently opened, at least for the first segment, in projection of this commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u49	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with the answer, although I think that the biggest job you will have to confront will be to break down in the world of culture that ugly mentality for which often, when dealing with cultural goods, private is ugly. I have a lot of work to do with this sector, and as a result, I realize that this will be your most important mission. I would also like to focus on the concept of public-private management. The protection of the heritage is fine, but if there is no promotion in my opinion, we will not achieve the result that we want to achieve. At this moment I do not believe that the State alone can take responsibility for the valorization.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u52	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment and his response, which I consider to be satisfactory. I hope in a positive outcome of the negotiations and in the signing of the convention between the Library and Queen Margaret and the tactile Pole, in the interest of the blind.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u55	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, Minister, I cannot understand this limitation in the timing of the speeches, which forces us to a sort of "leave" or "double." In any case, I am satisfied with the Minister's reply, which I thank on behalf of all the Housers. I would like to make a few recommendations to the Minister. First of all, there is the need for tax-benefit measures for cities which have these major sites: this also attracts tourism. Make sure that large international brands (banks or banks, i.e. those with money) can adopt a site. It then abolishes the provincial bodies for tourism, which are the repository of political trumpets and benefited, and gets personal in Campania choosing between LSU staff and how many others do the work of the lazy and venture into hundreds of training courses. If you take them to museums and gardens: at least they work to earn a salary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u56	Senator D'Anna, it is not a quiz: the times are mandatory because there is the live television, which allows to give more emphasis and knowledge to the issues put by the parliamentarians to the attention of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u59	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with your reply: in my opinion, the sensitivity and attention with which you seem to lead your delicate mandate on such a complex administrative front is a prerequisite for the future prospects of Italian cultural heritage. Going back to the delicacy of the issue, I stress the need to start from the current state of things, made of financial limitations, architectural degradation, archaeological excavations to be buried; at the same time, we urgently have to abandon the ideological excesses of those who perch behind an orthodox interpretation of Article 9 of the Constitution, to give space to the resources and planning of the private, but with transparent rules, actively involving the third sector, optimizing the relationship with the local authorities and giving the opportunity to profit from the new structures and projects. This is the way to reach a truly strategic model of valorization of cultural assets for the country's economy and for employment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u60	We now come to questions concerning measures to promote the tourism sector, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, will reply. Senators may ask their questions for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u63	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Minister, the Italian landscape is our most valuable cultural asset, never adequately promoted and used as a lever of tourist and economic development. The bike is a way to enjoy the beauty of our landscape and get in touch with them and with the cities of art, to also enjoy the typical Italian products. According to the study "European cycle route network EuroVelo" the economic impact of cycling is really important: it is 2,295 million trips, for a turnover of 44 billion per year. The 40,000 kilometers of German bike paths produce 4 billion inputs per year. We know that the cycle path between Venice and Turin - the so-called Vento project, which has been launched - can represent the longest cycle path in southern Europe, and for this reason I ask you how you intend to develop cycling in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u66	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, in order to return to growth in the ranking of the most attractive world destinations Italy will have to resort to various resources and activate synergies by putting together the best excellences in the fields of education, research, industry, agriculture, commerce, crafts and receptive and informative services, in particular using information and communications technology (ICT). Our country will be able to return to exercise an extraordinary appeal that, recognizing all the qualities of the national tourist offer in its significant articulations (in fact we know that there is no tourism, but tourism), is required to the attention of travelers, citizens of the world. Italian experience can be the new frontier of world tourism in the coming years. Italy must be told, it must be made to love, it must be presented as an opportunity to which all citizens of the world are entitled. Therefore, synergies must be implemented abroad, for example through the use of institutional and non-institutional garrisons that already operate in international quadrants. I am thinking of the offices of the reformed ENIT, of the Alitalia, of the ANSA, of the reformed ICE; I think, for this purpose, of the possibility of creating useful relations with the Italian embassies and consulates abroad, transforming them into places and occasions for the valorization of the Made in Italy; finally, I imagine that also the ENIT, the Italian Touring Club, the Italian institutes of culture abroad, the Chamber of Fashion, the RAI, Cinecittà and the main companies that deal with agri-food in the Belpaese are put together to promote a single brand of immediate recognition abroad, immediately attributable to the Italian excellences in the fields of fashion, fashion accessories, taste, travel, hôtellerie, the cities of art, our shores and our rural heritage, all able to narrate the uniqueness and authenticity of our territories, of our nation. Will the Government be able to intercept these areas, and turn them into cars to increase tourism as a supersector capable of dispensing distributed incomes and employment (especially in the Mezzogiorno, and we know how much we need them), collective utility, hardworking induced, individual well-being and community?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u69	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, Minister, I would like to focus on a specific sector of production and tourism: that of camperism and tourism in the open air. First of all I would like to point out that 3 million Italians and 2.5 million foreigners are important numbers, which contribute to the discovery and development of those smaller villages in Italy that can count on about 21 million nights and 2.7 billion per year of economic flow. Not only that: the production sector, besides tourism, is also interested, especially the Val d'Elsa and the area of Florence and Siena, which is producer and ambassador of Made in Italy abroad. I remember that Italy is the third producer of motorhomes and caravans in Europe. These figures, which are nevertheless relevant and emerge from the 2013 National Report on tourism en plein air in campers and caravans, carried out by the Association of manufacturers caravans and motorhomes (APC), lead me, Minister, to ask you two direct questions. The first, more general, is aimed at knowing whether it is the Government's intention, and in what ways, to promote tourism en plein air. Another, more specific question is whether the PCA's proposal to apply a 4% reduced VAT in support of households with disabled people is to be accepted. We keep in mind that these vehicles are particularly functional for people with motor disabilities and that in the major European countries this facilitated VAT is already for those who purchase such means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u72	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, Minister, the 7th Senate Commission, at its meeting on 16 April 2014, after numerous hearings and at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned to the situation of the Abbey of San Salvatore a Settimo on the banks of the Arno, adopted a resolution which committed the Government, in a nutshell, to promote a series of actions aimed at achieving the total recovery of the complex and recovering the integrity of Badia, including what remains of its surroundings, in the name not only of a purely aesthetic operation, but of the actual re-acquisition of a treasure of inestimable value and its subsequent enhancement. The story of the Abbey of Settimo is an example of the dramatic situation in which they pay fundamental testimonies of our historical and cultural roots. It was founded at the end of the first millennium and was entrusted by Gregory IX in 1236 to the Cistercian monks, reaching its maximum splendor between the thirteenth and seventeenth centuries. Equipped with powerful fortifications, it became a strategic point between the Via Pisana, the Carolingian axis of the Via Francigena and the Arno. Thanks to his role, he contributed to the greatness of Florence of those times. I would therefore like to ask what action has been taken by the Minister to comply with the resolution of the 7th Permanent Commission of 16 April 2014 and what urgent initiatives are planned to take in order to achieve the total recovery of the complex, also taking into account the fundamental role that it can play for the area where Badia arises from the social, cultural and, last but not least, tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u75	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the tourism sector is strategic for the country's economy. The contribution of tourism to Italy's gross domestic product amounted to more than EUR 161 billion in 2012. Also in the same year, the sector helped to secure about 2 million and 700,000 jobs. However, the sector is currently in crisis and, despite a slight recovery in 2013, business profits and employment remain declining. The strategic plan for the development of tourism in Italy has highlighted how Italy still plays an important role in national and international tourism, but it is struggling to keep pace with growth and tends to lose market share vis-à-vis its traditional European competitors, primarily France and Spain. Pass us the line, Minister: ENIT, in recent years, has not had a great role in the development of tourism and the image of Italy abroad. The decline in consumption in the tourism sector has had a negative impact on the tourism industry, with particular reference to the hotel accommodation sector, which, among other things, is affected by the prolonged lack of policy development. The Italian hotel heritage in many cases appears obsolete and no longer meets the needs of consumers, especially foreigners. Other negative repercussions concern travel agencies and above all incoming, that is those that bring foreign tourists to Italy, crushed by the crisis, abuse and a liberalisation of licences that has penalized the real professionals in the sector. Another problem of crisis is the tour operators, who currently have lower margins and higher taxes and, as a result, struggle to maintain quality and employment. We therefore ask you, Minister, if you would like to identify a long-term strategy for relaunching the tourism sector, by allocating the necessary financial resources to it to promote the development of redevelopment and modernisation of structures in Italy, to reduce the tax burden on companies in the sector and, above all, to combat abusing, which is the biggest problem in this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u78	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, Decree-Law No 83 of 31 May 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the revival of tourism, in the process of conversion to law, with Article 10 - and this can be noted with great pleasure - introduces tax reductions for the modernization of accommodation facilities. In detail, Article 10, in order to improve the quality of the accommodation offer in order to increase the competitiveness of tourist destinations, recognizes to the existing accommodation facilities on 1 January 2012 a tax credit for the expenses related to building renovation interventions or interventions to eliminate architectural barriers. I would like to stress this with great satisfaction: tourism accessible to all. The tax credit is recognised to the extent of 30% of the expenses incurred up to a maximum of 200,000 euros and until the maximum amount is exhausted in the total limit of 20 million euros for the year 2015 and 50 million euros for the years 2016 to 2019. Given that the amount of accommodation facilities in Italy - correct me if I am wrong, Minister, but there should be more than 33,000 hotels in Italy - interested in taking advantage of the incentive far exceeds the amount allocated, and considering that a few hours after the opening of the ban the appropriations will already be exhausted, I ask whether the Minister does not consider it appropriate and necessary to ensure a greater allocation of incentives for restructuring interventions in order to include a greater number of accommodation facilities concerned and to give greater visibility and effect to the measure, as well as to prevent a race for the award from opening the ban.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u81	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, in the so-called decree of last year's doing, an authentic interpretation rule was introduced which abolished the right to refund VAT of non-EU travel agencies on purchases and services carried out in Italy, to the direct benefit of travellers. A rule that we know has been solicited by the Revenue Agency, but that in fact is penalising the tourist influx in Italy from non-EU countries. While I am aware that this discipline is not your direct responsibility, Minister, I believe that the deleterious effects of this fall fully within the operational framework of your Dicastery, compromising those planning to relaunch tourism, especially on the eve of Expo 2015, on which a substantial part of its ministerial programming is concerned. I would therefore ask you what action you intend to take in order to compensate for the negative effect on tourism, legitimated by the rule, and whether you intend to urge, at the appropriate locations, a correction of the discipline that places the Italian tourist offer in a situation of disadvantage compared to European competitors.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u84	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, Minister, in 2002 a battle began, including a parliamentary battle, with the aim of returning to the city of Padua its castle Carrara, imposing and magnificent structure located in the center of the city. Since then, thanks to the efforts of some parliamentarians, committees and thousands of citizens, the return of the castle to the city has become one of the major issues of the political and cultural debate of that reality. In these years some 13 million euros have been found, which have saved the structure from the architectural collapse: the roofs have been put in complete safety and it has proceeded with the consolidation of the floors. For several years MIBAC and the Municipality of Padua have been engaged in the restoration of the imposing structure. For several months, a protocol of understanding has been drawn up between the Municipality and the Regional Directorate for Cultural Heritage, which should have resulted in the definition of a specific concessionary act, useful to put the Municipality of Padua in the conditions of being able to invest financial resources in the structure. I ask you, Minister, if and how the MIBAC intends to continue in the work of financial support to the project of the functional recovery of the structure and in what time the Regional Directorate will proceed to formalize fully, with the Municipality of Padua, the concessionary act for the use of the structure itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Franceschini, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, together for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u85	Mr President, in this case I thank the senators for putting a number of very important issues to the attention. I will try, with the ten-minute nightmare - as you yourself, Mr President, remember - imposed by live television, to take up all the issues. Senator Puglisi, the Vento project, which involves the construction of a large cycle path along the banks of the Po from Venice to Turin, is an extraordinary project to redevelopment the largest Italian river, its stories, its traditions and its crafts. It is a very advanced project from the point of view of its programming, which must now of course be supported with real design and resources. Moreover, tomorrow will leave Turin, like every year, the cyclists who will walk the banks of the Po until Venice. I believe a lot in itinerary projects. We need to differentiate as much as possible the tourist offer of the country, as Senator Castaldi also said. That's why I think Vento is a kind of project that will have to be followed by many others. We have a wealth of formidable possibilities in terms of cycling and walking paths. Let's think about religious tourism in Santiago di Compostela and what St. Francis' ways to Assisi could be. Let's think about the recovery of the old state roads, which are no longer traveled because of the highways, which could become like Route 66 in the United States. Let us even think of equestrian tourism, which, even if it is a niche, is very important. For this type of proposal, I can also proudly say that we have already done something. In the decree culture and tourism are previewed two norms that will finally allow an unblocking: the first is the possibility for the undersigned and for the Ministry to convene a conference of services mandatory in which to call, around a table, all the agencies interested from the paths. Wind crosses many regions, many provinces and municipalities, and it is difficult to agree with them all: the service conference will allow you to have a unique place to decide together. The second rule that we have foreseen in the decree culture and tourism, that of the art-bonus, means that the precious state property that risked to be sold, like cantoniere houses, old stations, lighthouses and state property in the banks, instead of being sold can be entrusted free of charge to cooperatives of young people who make initiatives in support of those itineraries, such as hostels, dormitories, inns, that is everything that can serve to make fantastic those routes. I think Vento will be the first of these projects. Senator Liuzzi, I share what you said: on tourism there is an extraordinary delay, a delay in the structure. We really need to reform ENIT, and the rule will allow us to do so; we need to make unique promotion abroad and make a major intervention on digitisation. We are far behind: the same portal Italia.it, which is the first site that virtually arrives to those who want to come to our country, must be reformed and made a total integration between our structures abroad. The rule of the ENIT Commission and the writing of the new statute states exactly that the staff - we have many homes that no longer serve and cost so much rent and staff - can be transferred to other state administrations. This will allow exactly in the big cities and capitals to integrate ICE, ENIT and Italian institutes of culture, not dissolving them but putting together a more organic path. You, Senator Liuzzi, asked me if the government could do this. I try: I have come to this Ministry, after having done many things in my parliamentary and governmental experience, precisely because I have suffered many years to see that - from governments of all colors, even to a different extent - Italian politics did not believe in the extraordinary potential of culture and tourism, it did not recognize them as driving carriers, in this century, in the world of globalization, and as our true resource, on which we must invest and on which we are unparalleled and unattainable. Senator Castaldi, I believe that the issue of camperism is part of the reasoning I have made before. The itineraries I have spoken about can also be made available to a very particular tourism, such as that of campers, which is all en plein air, and which is an important tourism, which lends itself perfectly to the characteristics of our country. I like very much the idea of VAT facilitated for those who have to use campers because they have a disabled family and sees in this medium the most suitable tool to exercise the right to live the holidays. Of course in this case (it is not my competence) there is a problem of financial coverage, but I am very convinced and will work on it. For what Senator Bencini asked about the Abbey of San Salvatore and San Lorenzo a Settimo, in the Municipality of Scandicci, there was a commitment: a few days ago I instructed the Undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua to preside over a table and we have already informed the Regional Directorate, which is organizing it. Here again there is a problem of coordination between the different levels, similar to what we have talked about before. I think it would be right to proceed with a further acquisition: of course, here too there is a problem of resources, which we will be dealing with. Anyway, within a month there will be the first meeting of this table. To Senators Centinario and Berger I say that obviously I would have wanted more resources and that the current situation is the result of a difficult job, for which I thank the Ministry of Economy and Finance, because everyone plays their part. We have introduced expensive incentives, such as art-bonus or incentives for digitisation and hotel restructuring. If we can improve the text when it is converted, I am happy, but of course there is a problem of resources, and I think that the Government and Parliament will be able to work on it. In the text there are very innovative provisions, which, however, as with incentives for building renovations and eco-bonus, must be seen in experimental form, and it is also difficult to quantify what the demand will be. Surely these are two measures that the hospitality and hotel facilities sector has long been waiting for and covering two fronts. On the one hand, there is a tax credit of 30% for those who digitize their accommodation; in fact, we have a huge delay: today tourism is everything on the Internet, it is the most advanced sector from the point of view of e-commerce, yet there are many structures that do not have an Internet site, are not present in social networks and are not digitized. There is therefore an incentive to digitize and, at the same time, another tax credit of 30% is provided, cumulative, in the event that action is taken to requalify the hotel heritage, which in fact, as has been mentioned, is obsolete: many one-, two- or three-star hotels are no longer competitive on the international market. The incentives for building renovations and eco-bonus applied to families, but not to businesses, and we therefore introduce the possibility that they also apply to companies in the tourism sector. I would like to say to Senator Di Biagio that as far as VAT is concerned, as he himself pointed out, it is a Community rule, and so we could not put ourselves in an infringement situation. However, it is my intention to raise the problem at European level, since the Italian Presidency of the European Union will begin on 1 July and there has been a change in the term of office and the Commission. I think that we will put this problem there, in agreement with the other European Ministers who are involved in tourism. To Senator Dalla Zuanna I say that even about the Carrara Castle in Padua there are two problems. A reminder must be made to the Regional Directorate, so that it arrives as soon as possible at the maintenance of those commitments, but as far as the resources increase its arms: we have opened to the private, but if I could show what happened to the resources dedicated to the maintenance, the restructuring and the restoration of the heritage of Italian cultural heritage, from 2000 to today, you would see that the data is impressive. I will bring the data to Parliament, I have already done so at the hearing of the two joint committees, but I would also like those who listen to us from home to know that. Every type of bottom, from the Lotto to the Arcus ones, has been drastically cut. We therefore work with a quantity of resources which is in no way adequate to the extent, importance and urgency of our interventions on our cultural heritage. From this point of view too, if Parliament wants to support me in recovering the cuts that have been made, of course I will be very happy to be at your side. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u88	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Thank you, Minister, I am very pleased with your reply. The idea of entrusting the abandoned state property to young people is really beautiful, instead of selling them out. I close with a brief quote from Hemingway on cycling and the beauty of cycling: It is driving a bike that you can better know the contours of a place, because you sweat on the ascents and descend freewheel. In this way you will remember how they really are.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u91	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I would like to congratulate you, if only for the pathos you demonstrated when you came out saying that you have suffered and suffer continually in seeing how much damage or missed opportunities there have been in the tourism sector. By sharing the same sentiment with you, I believe that we are in synergy. It will certainly find Parliament's broadest willingness on these issues. I also want, like Apulian, to recommend a special attention on the valorization of the heritage of trulli and dry stone architecture in Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u94	CASTALDI (M5S). Minister, thank you for your attention to the en plein air. With regard to reduced VAT at 4%, I would like to take it up. As a 5 Star Movement, we will advance our proposal and evaluate the decree. But you're talking about covers. Also according to the APC report - then I will give you the table, which I believe will be useful, if you have not already examined it - from 15,000 registrations we passed, in 2013, to 3,873. Probably with a facilitation we would increase registrations and for the state this would be an increase (maybe we would find cover). However, we take it at our word; we too will do something about it. Thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u97	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Minister, I understand that managing the cultural heritage in Italy is really difficult, due to the immensity and lack of resources (as is often said). But it is also true that the lack of resources then leads to a deterioration of our cultural heritage, so somehow we have to deal with this problem. As for the story of the Abbey, it has been about twenty years that the various successive Governments have been concerned about this cultural good, this important structure within Florence. Various institutional tables have also been made. For the umpteenth time, in the XVII legislature (we hope that it will bring the 17), a new table is established, with the undersecretary Borletti Buitoni. I really hope you get to the acquisition of this asset. Its acquisition involves a government disbursement of approximately €2 million and €700,000, even if then there will be all the restructuring, which will be much wider from the economic point of view. I am therefore partially satisfied, and I will only be satisfied when this cultural heritage returns to the community.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u100	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I sincerely say that I will be satisfied when the Decree-Law No 83 of 31 May 2014 arrives in this House, for the simple reason that the whole policy, on one hand and on the other, should apologise to the tourism sector. When there is an electoral campaign we all fill our mouths, saying that the tourism sector must be the priority of this state; the day after the elections everyone forgets it. He gave us an example when he told us, a few minutes ago, that he must start from scratch as far as the Ministry is concerned. It is not his fault, we know very well, but the fact that, after so long that this sector is one of our country's tugs, we still have to talk about starting from scratch as far as the Ministry is concerned, I think it is quite shameful. Equally shameful, I think is the existence of ENIT to date. [[Recalls of the President]] One second, Mr. President, I'm done. When I was city councilman for culture, I found myself - and I don't say where - an executive of ENIT who presented Italy to foreign tour operators saying: Italy is not just mafia and spaghetti. Such a presentation shows that this is a totally incompetent person. The advice that I give you at this point, Minister, is to deal not so much with the structure - I know you must - but with all the operators and all the entrepreneurs who are currently working for tourism in Italy. They are many and passionate, and I think they will help you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u103	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I understand very well the issues relating to the funds, and I can also understand your position, the fact that you would have wanted to allocate funds in abundance, but there are no funds. I think, however, it is time that more attention was paid to the sector that still holds the economy of Italy, that is, tourism, operators and those who work in this sector. We are creating too many obstacles, with the thresholds for the use of cash, fuel prices and energy; there are so many obstacles for those who work in this sector. We must make this sector even more accessible to everyone, as has already been said, and we must do everything we can to ensure promotion, support for those who work there. For this reason, I thank you for your reply and your initiative. We hope that this initiative will go in the desired direction, because the cow that you want to milk must also be fed in abundance. In this sense, I want to justify an intervention in favour of tourism. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can see that he's been a councilman for agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u106	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, for the sake of clarification, the rule in question is the authentic interpretation of a rule of a decree of the President of the Republic of 1972. However, I am comforted. As I pointed out, this discipline will affect the Italian tourism offer in countries not members of the European Union, where it will suffer an estimated increase in costs between 15% and 25%, putting us at a disadvantage compared to other European countries. All this assumes a paradoxical aspect, if we take into account the fact that our country represents the first choice of extra-EU tour operators and that for the two-year period 2013-2014 an increase of 3% of tourist flows was expected. Of course, this forecast dates back well before the entry into force of the rule in question. If you take into account that there are also initiatives aimed at increasing tourism in Italy on the eve of the Expo, such as the one involving some airlines that are joining the 2015 tourist program Italians in the world, which is connected to the Expo, with promotional rates to stimulate Italians living abroad and foreign citizens of Italian origin to visit Italy, we realize that the contradiction is evident.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u109	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). I thank the Minister for his reply and, in particular, for his commitment to exert pressure on the Regional Directorate for Cultural Heritage to sign this convention. It is an important convention, because it is preliminary to the commitment, also economic, that the Municipality has already decided to put on this intervention. In my opinion, it is also preliminary to the commitment of individuals to the Castle of Padua, because it clearly clarifies the regulatory framework in which action is taken. As for the discourse of resources, I understand: we hope that the increase of resources that we all expect will also see the Castle of Padua, among the thousand priorities. The expression "there are a thousand priorities" is obviously senseless, but we say the same, hoping that things can work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u110	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Franceschini for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-257.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
